DRN-3550270
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by a company, C. Any reference to C includes submissions 
made on its behalf by its director, Mr N.
C is unhappy with how The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society trading as 
NFU Mutual has handled its legal expenses insurance claim. 
Any reference to NFU includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Im summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr N previously held a property insurance policy with legal expenses insurance (LEI) 
as an add on. Both the property and LEI policy covered two commercial premises  
one in Mr Ns name and another in Cs name. 
In 2014, Mr N queried whether it was appropriate for one policy to cover two 
commercial premises. NFU subsequently separated the premises giving each its own 
property insurance policy. 
In September 2020, a dispute arose between C and a neighbour about the use of a 
shared gate. 
In March 2021, Mr N checked insurance documents to find LEI cover hadnt been 
added to the policy in Cs name. 
In September 2021, Cs neighbour gave notice of an intention to apply for an 
injunction. 
At the end of September, Mr N contacted NFU to complain that LEI hadnt been 
added to Cs property policy. NFU agreed to back date cover to December 2020. 
In November 2021, C made a claim on its LEI policy regarding the neighbour dispute. 
Initially, NFU said the claim had been referred too late as the dispute had arisen in 
September 2020 and it thought C could have reasonably logged the claim earlier on.  
In disagreement, C said it couldnt have referred the matter in time as the policy 
wasnt in place and it hadnt been told how to make a claim.  
NFU accepted the claim but a few weeks later declined it. It said the legal matter was 
about an injunction regarding a right of way  as opposed to pursuing a nuisance - 
and the policy doesnt cover claims about defending property rights. 
NFU apologised for having incorrectly advised C the claim was covered. It offered 
£200 compensation and said it would consider reasonable legal costs for the period 
cover was in place. 
C remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this service. 
An Investigator considered it and was satisfied NFU had relied on the exclusion fairly. 
He also thought it was reasonable to have expected C to have logged the claim in 
March 2021 when legal expenses cover was found to have not been added to the 
property insurance policy. And he was satisfied the compensation offered was fair. 
C disagreed with the investigators outcome and so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has provided lengthy submissions on behalf of C to explain why the claim ought to be 
covered. I want to assure him that Ive read these and whilst my decision may appear curt in 
comparison, this is not my intention. It is, however, my role to determine what I consider to 
be key when deciding this complaint.  
The crux of Cs complaint is that NFU has unfairly declined a claim under its legal expenses 
policy  whether that be in the first instance because NFU said the claim was made too late, 
or second, when it said the nature of the legal claim wasnt covered. 
Claim made too late
Following NFUs application of this exclusion, it subsequently changed its position. So, I 
dont need to make a determination on this, beyond the impact of this on C which Ill address 
later in my decision.
I understand Cs argument is that had it been able to raise the claim earlier on, the legal 
costs would have been covered as the matter wouldnt have progressed to the point of an 
injunction being served. C considers its inability to log a claim to be NFUs fault.
It's worth explaining that even if the claim had been submitted earlier on and cover agreed, 
its not guaranteed that cover would persist throughout the life of the claim. Its determined 
with reference to several things, including but not limited to, whether the legal claim enjoys 
reasonable prospects of success and is proportionate to pursue. Whether a claim has 
prospects of success can change over time and where a claim fails to enjoy these, its in the 
policy terms that cover can be withdrawn. So, Cs argument that all its legal costs would 
have been covered is speculative  there are too many variables which might impact the 
insurers decision to agree to cover. NFU has offered to cover reasonable legal costs for the 
period cover was in place and I think thats fair in the circumstances.
Subject matter of legal claim not covered
Having initially accepted Cs claim, NFU later declined it stating the type of legal claim was 
not covered as at the point Cs neighbour issued an injunction the claim became one about 
defending a property claim, as opposed to pursuing a claim for nuisance. Ive looked at the 
policy document which says in respect of property protection claims: 
We will not pay for any claim relating to [] defending your legal rights other than in 
defending a counter-claim.Im satisfied the policy makes it clear that legal claims of this nature wouldnt be covered, but 
I need to decide if how NFU reached its decision to rely on the exclusion was fair. Insurers 
are entitled to withdraw cover and wed expect them to consider all of the available 
information when doing so, so its not unusual that NFU has subsequently withdrawn cover 
having received new information about the claim  and I can see it did so on the advice of its 
own solicitors.
Ive considered Cs solicitors comments  notably that in their opinion the legal matter is 
about nuisance and rather than defending a claim, C is making a positive act to assert its 
legal rights. I also note the solicitors argument that the circumstances are not new as the 
gates in question have been in place for decades. However, I must balance this with the fact 
the injunction names C as the defendant  which by its very nature is strong evidence that 
the legal matter had become one about defending Cs legal rights; the neighbour has taken 
legal action against C, and C is defending that action. 
C has suggested it was about to take legal action immediately prior to the neighbour 
beginning proceedings. But, from the information I have, Im not persuaded that was the 
case as correspondence from Cs solicitors to the neighbours refers to the drafting and 
approval of a deed of easement  a way in which to bring closure without the need for court 
action. I havent seen evidence that C was taking  or about to take  legal action. I also 
note it says that whilst Cs inclination is to allow the matter to proceed to court, C is willing to 
accept its solicitors advice before doing so. So, on balance, Im more persuaded the matter 
of the legal claim was one about defending legal action and therefore, I consider NFUs 
decision to withdraw cover to be fair. 
NFU has acknowledged it could have handled Cs claim better and has made a payment for 
£200. Our investigator has explained the limitations on compensation awards when the 
complainant is a limited company, and so whilst C might consider £200 insufficient, I 
consider it fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im also satisfied NFUs offer to cover 
reasonable legal costs incurred during the time cover was in place to be an appropriate 
remedy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman