DRN-4478891
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release mortgage that Mrs and Mr B held until recently with 
Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. They took it out in 2015, took further advances from time 
to time, and then applied to port  that is, move the debt over to a new mortgage on a 
different property. The essence of Mrs and Mr Bs complaint is that Aviva reduced the 
amount of the ported lending by around £18,000 on the day they completed. This has left 
them with very little of the money they were expecting to free up after moving house.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 6 November 2023, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr B and M2L. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, 
which has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mrs and Mr B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of 
the key events, rounding the figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr B took the mortgage out in 2015; by the start of 2022, the outstanding 
balance was in the region of £138,000. In January 2022, Aviva issued an illustration 
(not an offer to lend) for a mortgage on the new home. As the new property value 
was less than that of the existing one, the illustration showed that around £4,400 of 
the balance would have to be repaid in order to keep within Avivas then 
loan-to-value (LTV) limit. 
This meant the new debt would be just over £133,000, but the illustration contained a 
narrative indicating that the actual amount to be lent could vary and would be 
decided once the date of completion was known.
Mrs and Mr Bs house move took several months, and in June 2022, Aviva changed 
its lending policy to reduce the maximum LTVs it would allow. This impacted on 
Mrs and Mr Bs porting of their mortgage because their actual offer was issued on 
22 July 2022, in anticipation of a completion date of 27 July 2022. Under the new, 
lower, LTV policy, Aviva was only willing to lend a little over £119,000. Taking into 
account the increase in the outstanding balance in the interim (to just under 
£142,000) Aviva now required Mrs and Mr B to repay around £22,500.
Mrs and Mr B felt they had no option but to accept the mortgage offer, as they were 
committed to completing the transaction, but later complained that theyd been left 
short of the money theyd been expecting. Aviva upheld the complaint because it had 
missed two opportunities to warn Mrs and Mr Bs mortgage broker of the policy 
change before they exchanged contracts and the offer was issued. It offered Mrs and 
Mr B £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd suffered from 
finding out at such a late stage.
Mrs and Mr B referred their complaint to us. They also arranged a re-mortgage with a 
different lender (which Ill refer to as P) and redeemed the mortgage with Aviva. The 
new mortgage from P was for around £141,000. In the meantime, Aviva revisited the 
case and decided on further reflection to increase its offer of compensation to £750. 
When our investigator considered all the arguments and evidence, he concluded that 
Avivas increased settlement offer was fair, and didnt recommend any further 
redress be awarded to Mrs and Mr B. 
Mrs and Mr B have asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They say 
that if theyd been told about the policy change and that this would reduce the 
amount they could borrowed, theyd have aborted the sale and purchase and stayed 
in their existing home.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different conclusion from the investigator on 
how the case should fairly be settled; Ill explain why.
The first, and in some ways most important, point to make here is to reiterate that the 
document Aviva issued in January 2022 was not a mortgage offer. I can understand 
if Mrs and Mr B were under a misapprehension that it was, because Ive noted that 
their solicitor described it as a mortgage offer in an email dated 9 May 2023. 
However, that document was merely an illustration and it said as much. On the very 
first page, Section 1 says the following:
This illustration is for the transfer of your lifetime mortgage to your new 
property. It is not a legally-binding mortgage offer and it does not oblige Aviva 
Equity Release UK Limited to provide you with the mortgage described in this 
illustration.
The illustration also makes it clear further in that the eventual amount Aviva will lend 
is subject to variation and can only be confirmed once the completion date is known. 
Section 2 says:
The final figures will be different and we will confirm these once we know the 
date of your move.
I dont know, and wont speculated on, whether and to what extent Mrs and Mr B 
read and assimilated those narratives, but Im mindful they had the services of a 
mortgage broker whose role it was to ensure they understood the material Aviva had 
provided. To be clear, I imply no criticism of the broker, and none should be inferred. 
The point being made is that I consider Mrs and Mr B should reasonably have known 
that Aviva at this stage was not committed to lending a specific amount, and that the 
amount theyd need to repay on moving was likely to be different on completion.
Aviva could only finalise the amount of the new mortgage (and hence the amount 
Mrs and Mr B would have to repay) once the completion date was known. 
Unfortunately, in the meantime, Aviva had changed its lending policy. It was perfectly 
entitled to that, but Avivas mistake was that it missed two opportunities to let Mrs and Mr Bs mortgage broker know about the change and how that would impact their 
borrowing when they moved house.
Where a business does something wrong, as Aviva accepts it has done here, we aim 
to place the affected parties (so Mrs and Mr B) as close as possible to the position 
theyd be in if the business hadnt made the mistake. In that regard, what 
Mrs and Mr B have told us, albeit with the benefit of hindsight, is that if theyd known 
about the change before exchange of contracts theyd have aborted the house move 
altogether.
I have no reason to doubt the sincerity of that statement, but of course they have 
moved, and in practical reality, thats not something that can be reversed. Also, 
looking at things dispassionately, as Im required to do, Ive also noted how much 
Mrs and Mr B said they were looking forward to the move and the next chapter of 
their lives that it represented. 
So it seems to me that, if Aviva had told Mrs and Mr B about the policy change and 
the effect it would have on their lending, its just as likely that rather than abort the 
move altogether, Mrs and Mr B would have done what they ended up doing later in 
2022. That is, source another lender that was willing to lend them the money they 
were expecting in the first place.
That being so, the position in which Mrs and Mr B currently find themselves is, in all 
likelihood, not hugely different from where they would have been if Aviva hadnt failed 
to tell them about the policy change. Theyd still have ended up borrowing the 
amount they have, from the new lender, which I note is charging a lower interest rate 
than Aviva. 
But if Aviva hadnt got things wrong, it would not have come as such a shock to 
Mrs and Mr B that theyd couldnt borrow the amount they wanted by staying with 
Aviva. The larger mortgage from P would still have happened, and Mrs and Mr B 
would still have paid the fees they did for the mortgage with P, but it would have been 
arranged in a more orderly fashion, and in a calmer environment where Mrs and Mr B 
hadnt experienced the disappointment and distress Aviva put them to. 
That bring me to the question of redress. Aviva has provided us with details of costs 
associated with closing down the mortgage. Mrs and Mr B would always have had to 
pay these costs when the mortgage was repaid, regardless of whether it was ported 
between properties first. So the fees charged by Aviva for closing down the mortgage 
are not refundable. 
At my direction, the investigator asked Mrs and Mr B if they had incurred broker fees 
for arranging to port the Aviva mortgage to the new house, and if so, whether those 
fees would still have been payable if Aviva hadnt issued an offer.  Mrs and Mr B 
have provided an invoice for a £600 fee charged by their broker, but that was for 
arranging the new mortgage. Theyre not due to have that reimbursed because, like 
the Aviva costs, theyd have incurred it anyway. But if they also incurred a broker fee 
for the porting work that would otherwise not have been charged, theyre entitled to 
have that reimbursed, but only on production of the relevant evidence. 
Even in the best-ordered situation, some things can or will go wrong in such a 
complex transaction as a house purchase, and some degree of stress and 
inconvenience is to be expected. That said, having looked at the specific 
circumstances of this case, if Aviva had not reviewed its original offer of £250, I 
would certainly have been minded to award more. However, Aviva has forestalled that by increasing its offer to £750. No two cases are the same, and the consumers 
circumstances are different in every case. 
In my view, Avivas increased offer is much more consistent with the level of award 
wed typically make in a situation such as that faced by Mrs and Mr B. They have 
referenced things they wanted to do but couldnt do as a result of having to repay 
around £18,000 more than anticipated when they moved. From the completion 
statements Ive been provided with, Mrs and Mr B received (or should have) surplus 
funds of around £29,000 following the house move in July 2022, and then a further 
sum of around £18,300 following the re-mortgage in October 2022. 
Thats what I was alluding to when I said Mrs and Mr Bs current position isnt hugely 
different from what it might otherwise have been. They have referred to Aviva getting 
off scot-free, and I understand their strength of feeling. But where a person suffers 
detriment as the result of a mistake (or in this case, an omission) on the part of a 
business, the law expects them to take reasonable steps to mitigate their position 
and limit the adverse impact on them. Mrs and Mr B have done that by taking the 
steps which, on balance, I think theyd most likely have taken in any event if Aviva 
had done as it should.
I initially gave the parties two weeks to respond to the provisional decision; Aviva did so first, 
providing evidence of a conversation with Mr B in which it informed him that they could apply 
to Aviva directly to port the mortgage, without using a broker.  At my direction, the 
investigator informed Mr and Mrs B that I was modifying my provisional decision to withdraw 
the proposed broker fee refund, and gave them an additional week to reply. Weve now 
heard from Mr and Mrs B who confirmed they still believe the £750 to be inadequate 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. 
Having considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided, Im 
persuaded that £750 is fair compensation, for all of the reasons set out above. Ive noted 
what theyve said about the terms of the fee agreement between them and their broker. 
However, Mr and Mrs B chose to use the services of a broker, after Aviva had made it clear 
that they could have conducted the transaction directly. 
I imply no criticism of Mr and Mrs B for using a broker, and none should be inferred. Its a 
choice they were perfectly entitled to make, but as it was their choice, I cant fairly require 
Aviva to pay their fee for doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, by ordering Aviva Equity Release UK Limited 
to pay Mrs and Mr B £750 compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2023. 
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman