DRN-3689725
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the charges that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) applied to his 
account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr M complained to BOS about the charges applied to his account in February 2019.  BOS 
agreed to refund £100 in fees and put a hold on charges for 30 days. BOS issued a 
summary resolution communication (SRC) regarding this on 23 February 2019. This 
outlined the time limits Mr M had to bring his complaint to this service. 
Mr M brought a further complaint to BOS in April 2022. BOS didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint 
and issued a final response letter on 12 April 2022 following which Mr M brought his 
complaint to this service
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and found that because Mr M hadnt brought his initial 
complaint to us within six months of the SRC, we could only look at the charges applied to 
his account from 23 February 2019. On review of Mr Ms account our adjudicator thought 
that BOS should refund all interest and charges added to Mr Ms account from 23 February 
2019.
Following this, in-line with our adjudicators view BOS offered to refund all fees from             
23 February 2019 until the account was closed on 6 August 2019. If Mr M had repaid his 
debt then it would pay him directly adding 8% simple interest and the default would be 
backdated to 23 February 2019. 
Mr M didnt want to accept this offer, he wants all charges that were applied to his account 
prior to February 2019 reviewed. 
Why I cant look at charges applied before 23 February 2019
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that 
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter or summary 
resolution communication (SRC), telling them they can refer their complaint to us. This is 
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be found online in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook.
BOSs internal systems show Mr M raised a complaint over the phone on 22 February 2019 
regarding the level of overdraft fees applied to his account. BOS confirmed the charges were 
applied correctly in accordance with the account terms and conditions and provided 
assistance by refunding £100 in fees and putting a 30 day hold on fees. 
BOS issued a SRC on 23 February 2019. Ive seen a copy of this and Im satisfied it fits the 
meaning for a SRC as defined in the DISP rules - including the referral rights setting out the 
six month time limit. This means Mr M had until 23 August 2019 to refer the matter to the 
service. But he didnt do so until May 2022, so I conclude the complaint was referred to us 
out of time under the rules that I have to apply.
I accept that since BOS issued a final response letter in April 2022 in relation to a further 
complaint but unfortunately this doesnt extend the six month time limit relating to Mr Ms 
original complaint made over the phone in February 2019.
But Im allowed to investigate complaints referred outside of the time limit if Im satisfied the
delay was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr M has not told us about any exceptional 
circumstances that prevented him from bringing his complaint to this service, so because Mr 
M didnt refer his complaint to us in time, my decision is that this complaint was made too 
late and I am only able to look at charges applied after 23 February 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what BOS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Ive seen that Mr M has in some of his correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to his account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts BOS charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately, 
how much a bank charges for services, what services it provides and to who is a commercial 
decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at BOSs various charging structures or processes per se, it 
wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Ms account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr M was experiencing financial difficulty. And where this is 
the case, Id expect BOS to put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt paid any 
further interest and charges on that credit. 
This means Id normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable.
Mr M contacted BOS regarding his financial difficulties in February 2019. Mr M informed 
BOS hed lost his job and was behind on his mortgage payments. In response to this BOS 
refunded some fees and put a hold on charges for 30 days. But it then started charging 
again without establishing whether Mr Ms financial position had improved.  So Im in 
agreement with our adjudicator that I dont think BOS did enough to assist Mr M with the 
knowledge it had about his circumstances. 
But as BOS have already made an offer in-line with our adjudicators view and what Id 
expect if Id found it had done something wrong - Im satisfied that what BOS has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr M to 
decide whether he wishes to accept BOSs offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman