DRN-2350639
The complaint
Mr S complained about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) dealt with his complaint 
and the compensation relating to a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with a loan.
What happened
In May 2000 Mr S took out a loan for £15,000 and also took out a PPI policy for a premium 
of £2,186.88. The premium amount was added to the amount he borrowed, making a total 
Mr S borrowed of £17,186.88. 
When Mr S complained the PPI was mis-sold, Barclays upheld his complaint and offered 
initially compensation of £22,995.22, sending a cheque for this amount with the offer letter.
Mr S tried to bank this cheque, but his bank told him the cheque had been cancelled. 
Between the end of August and 9 September 2019 Mr S chased payment and was told 
different things until in September he was told the amount offered was an error. Barclays 
said the correct amount of compensation was £4,945.01. Barclays apologised for its error 
and sent a cheque for the correct amount on 16 September 2019. Barclays also paid Mr S 
an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience Mr S had been put to. 
Mr S was very unhappy and brought his complaint to this service as he thought the original 
amount should be honoured by Barclays. He has provided evidence to show he was out of 
pocket because he had spent money in anticipation of the original offer and cheque being 
paid to him. 
Our adjudicator said some of the costs Mr S had put shown he had spent should be 
refunded by Barclays. Barclays agreed to do this and made a new offer which was to pay the 
correct compensation amount of £4,945.01 and a further amount for some of the costs and 
some additional compensation of an additional £1,327.21. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in October 2020 and that set out the full details of 
the case and my provisional findings. 
Mr S has responded saying he doesnt agree with what I said and set out some reasons why 
he feels he should still get additional compensation.
Barclays has also responded indicating it accepts what I said in my provisional decision and 
will make the payments on acceptance by the consumer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays agreed to uphold that the PPI Mr S bought was mis-sold and as I indicated in my 
provisional decision, I am only now considering what is fair compensation in all the 
circumstances. 
There is no dispute between the parties as to what happened between 13 August and 16 
September 2019. Barclays sent an offer letter to uphold the complaint and also enclosed a 
cheque for £22,995.22 on 13 August 2019. Mr S tried to bank the cheque on 29 August and 
was told by his bank the cheque had been cancelled by Barclays. When he first contacted 
Barclays to find out what had happened, he was told there had been an internal error and 
the payment would now be made by BACS and he provided his bank details.
The payment still was not made and after more calls to Barclays, it was confirmed to Mr S by 
phone on 9 September 2019 the compensation amount of £22,995.22 was incorrect, and the 
BACS payment had also been cancelled. He was told correct figure for the compensation 
should be £4,945.01. On 16 September 2019 Barclays wrote to Mr S with a new offer letter, 
explaining an error had been made.  As an apology for its error Barclays included an 
additional £100 in the cheque it sent.
When Mr S took out his loan in 2000, he borrowed £15,000 plus the cost of the PPI premium 
which was £2,186.88. The original offer letter sent to Mr S did indicated the correct amount 
of the premium that had been paid and was being refunded as part of the compensation. It 
was the calculation of the interest that was incorrect, and those figures were also set out in 
the original letter. 
I have considered all the information provided by Barclays about the compensation. I am 
satisfied that the correct amount of compensation should have been £4,945.01. But because 
Barclays made a mistake in its calculation it originally sent Mr S £22,995.22. 
I set out in detail in my provisional decision how Barclays made further errors when dealing 
with this complaint. And it wasnt unreasonable, having been sent a cheque for £22,995.22, 
that Mr S did spend some money on the basis that the cheque from Barclays would clear. 
And I didnt think he would have spent the amount he did, if hed known the compensation 
was substantially less than the amount that had at first been sent. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision, the original offer letter to Mr S did state the correct 
amount of the premium charged for the PPI policy of £2,186.88. So, to be getting almost 
£23,000 in compensation for the mis-sale of this policy was a very high amount of 
compensation and the amount may have caused some people to question if this amount was 
correct. It was actually more than Mr S had borrowed and a large proportion of the interest 
he would have paid on his total loan. But Mr S accepted the amount of the cheque was 
correct and so he spent some of it. 
I have taken note of all Mr S further comments about only being refunded the costs of 
£5,622.22 that he evidenced were spent to the date he was informed of the correct amount 
of compensation that was due. Mr S still feels he should get more compensation for the 
upset and stress he has been put to in addition to a refund of the evidenced costs and the 
compensation for the mis-sold policy. 
It has been argued by the business that the correct compensation of £4,945.01 should be 
deducted from the evidenced costs Mr S incurred, and only the difference paid in addition to 
the correct compensation amount. I didnt think this was fair. So I indicated in my provisional 
decision that I was intending to direct Mr S should receive the full amount of evidenced costs 
plus the compensation he was actually due for the mis-sold PPI. Barclays has accepted this, 
but Mr S is still unhappy.I can understand Mr S was disappointed not to get the original amount he was told, but the 
time scale he anticipated this amount was only some three weeks. In my provisional decision 
I provided some examples about reasonable approaches that could be considered as to 
what Mr S may have spent in proportion to the different amounts of the correct and incorrect 
offers of compensation. But no one can know exactly what would have happened if he had 
been sent the correct amount from the start.
The fact is that Mr S was only entitled at the time to £4,945.01 for the PPI compensation. I 
could just award that, with the compensatory interest updated and an amount of 
compensation for the error made by Barclays and the trouble and upset this would have 
caused. This would be our normal approach and then Mr S would not have received any of 
the spend he made during the period of anticipating the higher payment. 
However, I didnt think that was necessarily a fair approach in the particular circumstances of 
this case. In effect what I indicated was that Barclays should pay Mr S £5,622 as 
compensation for the trouble caused by its actions in offering the wrong amount. This figure 
of additional compensation being based on what Mr S was out of pocket as a result of the 
incorrect offer. It is quite possible some of this amount may have been spent by Mr S in any 
event, even if the correct offer had been made initially. But we cannot know that and so it 
provides a guide, in my view, as to what is fair compensation for the errors made by 
Barclays. 
I provided in my provisional decision an example of Mr S spending around 25% of the total 
wrongly offered amount and looking at this in proportion to what he might have spent if the 
correct offer has been made. Mr Ss representative has said that would have proportionally 
been £1,200 spent on the correct offer, and then Mr S has effectively been left £4,422 out of 
pocket. If that approach were taken Mr S would get back just the £4,422 for being out of 
pocket in addition to the actual PPI compensation. So by awarding him the additional 
£1,200, that is the total of all his spend, then that £1,200 could be considered additional 
compensation for the stress and disappointment. 
I have considered in detail all the comments made by Mr S and his representative, but I have 
not seen anything to persuade me that I should change the findings in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
As I indicated in my provisional decision, I think Mr S would have spent something if he had 
been told of the correct offer at the start. By paying Mr S the £5,622.22 evidenced spend, 
means this isnt taking into account what Mr S may have spent in any event if he had 
originally been sent the lower, correct offer. So I think the refund of the amount of this total 
spend includes adequate compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr S.  
Barclays should recalculate the compensation due for the mis-sale of the PPI by updating 
the 8% compensatory interest to the date of final settlement. 
Barclays should also pay £5,622.22 in additional compensation to Mr S for the spend he 
incurred and to compensate him for the trouble and upset the error from Barclays caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and also as indicated in my provisional decision, I am 
directing Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay the compensation calculated for the mis-sold PPI, plus an additional amount of compensation of £5,622.22. Any compensatory interest should 
be recalculated to the date of final payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman