DRN-4260717
The complaint
Mr C complains Equifax Limited were reporting incorrect information on his credit file and it 
took them too long to resolve the issue.
What happened
Mr C says in February 2022 he accessed information provided a third party which showed 
Equifax were reporting incorrect information about him. Mr C spoke to Equifax, and found 
they were reporting two defaults for the same account with a company Ill refer to as M. 
During investigations it was established the account had been sold by M to a debt purchaser 
who Ill refer to as P. Both M and P were reporting a default for the same account.
Equifax provided multiple responses to Mr Cs complaint, but ultimately accepted they 
should have acted sooner as M told them theyd sold the debt to P. So, they should have 
removed the default registered against Ms entry, even though M themselves hadnt 
authorised them to do so. In their last response, Equifax offered £100.
Unhappy with this, Mr C contacted us and asked us to look into things. He said matters had 
been ongoing for a long time, the stress of this issue had meant hed needed to visit his 
doctor, and he wasnt able to get good credit. Mr C told our service he felt £3,500 would be a 
fair way to compensate him for everything thats happened.
One of our Investigators considered things, and overall felt total compensation of £250 was 
fair  the £100 Equifax had previously offered, plus a further £150. 
Equifax accepted this, but Mr C didnt, he said this didnt fully reflect the stress hed been 
under and the amount of times hed had to contact them. So, the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information I have, Mr C first disputed the defaults on 11 February 2022, and 
Equifax were first told by M that these were duplicate defaults just six days later. I say this 
because following Mr Cs contact Equifax raised a dispute with M about the two defaults  
and M said on 17 February 2022:
The default date is showing as 12/4/2021 at Equifax. If the default is showing differently at 
P then as the account is now held by them then you would have to contact P directly 
about this. The account initially defaulted with M so this is correctly registered. The Credit 
File will indicate that the account was then sold onto P with the default. The Customer has 
one default associated with this account
Equifax have said the lender didnt give them permission to remove the default entry at this 
time. And I can see theyve previously explained to Mr C theyre not able to make changes to 
the data unless the data owner agrees to this. Thats because Equifax dont own the data 
they report  companies like M do. But, Equifax do have a responsibility to ensure the data 
theyre reporting is accurate, and are required to take steps to correct the data where its 
inaccurate.
Equifax have since accepted they could have removed the account with M  this though 
wasnt until March 2023. So, its not in dispute Equifax have made an error. And I 
understand the default with M was removed in March 2023 when Equifax realised their error. 
This means the only remaining question is how much compensation to award.
One of the issues Mr C has complained about is he couldnt get good credit because of this 
error  but I dont think the error has impacted Mr Cs ability to get good credit too much. 
Thats because Mr C, without Ms default, still had two defaults on his credit file  one from 
P, and another from another company. So, I wouldnt be able to say Mr C couldnt get good 
credit solely because of the delay in removing Ms default from his account.
I dont doubt Mr C was put under considerable distress about the failure to remove the 
default. But looking at how things happened, although a year went by before Equifax 
accepted theyd made an error  there were times when Mr C wasnt in touch for several 
months. Ive also seen several occasions where Equifax were asking for information which 
Mr C wasnt replying to clearly so they could investigate the matter, which caused some 
further delays.
I do think matters have taken far too long, but at times there are delays / gaps which I cant 
attribute to an error on Equifaxs behalf. So, weighing everything up, Im satisfied a total 
compensation award of £250 is fair. Its unclear if Equifax have already paid the £100 they 
offered Mr C  if they have, then they can deduct this from the total payment they now need 
to make.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Equifax Limited to pay Mr C a total of £250 
compensation. If theyve already paid him £100 compensation offered, then they can deduct 
this when sending him the final payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman