DRN-3087178
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs request for tax information. Mrs D also complains 
that Lloyds wont say why she has been asked to confirm her residency for tax purposes. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D hold a joint account with Lloyds. Lloyds has sent Mrs D several requests that 
she complete a tax residency self-certification form. Lloyds says it needs to confirm Mrs Ds 
country of residence for tax purposes to comply with the Foreign Account Tax Act (FATCA). 
Lloyds has explained that if Mrs D doesnt provide the information required, it will report that 
to HMRC. 
Mrs D complained to Lloyds and said there was no reason it should think FATCA, which 
relates to American citizens, impacts her. Mrs D hasnt completed the self-certification form 
Lloyds sent her. 
Lloyds responded to Mrs Ds complaint but didnt agree it had made a mistake by asking for 
FATCA information. Lloyds paid Mrs D £50 to apologise for delays in asking for confirmation 
of her residency for tax purposes but said she should still complete the self-certification form. 
Mrs D referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They didnt 
find that Lloyds had made a mistake by asking Mrs D to complete the self-certification form 
and provide tax residency information. The investigator thought Lloyds had dealt with Mrs 
Ds complaint fairly. 
Mrs D asked to appeal and said whilst Lloyds may be subject to FATCA legislation she, as a 
private UK citizen, isnt. Mrs D also said the investigator had failed to get to the bottom of 
exactly why Lloyds was asking her for this information. As Mrs D asked to appeal, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Lloyds has explained that it has to comply with FATCA under Common Reporting Standard 
(CRS) legislation. Lloyds has explained it sent Mrs D the self-certification form to complete 
because it didnt have enough information about her available to confirm her residency for 
tax purposes. I know Mrs D feels her longstanding history with Lloyds and the addresses it 
has held for her over the years should make it clear that FATCA doesnt apply to her. But 
Lloyds has confirmed that it doesnt have sufficient information on file to automatically 
confirm Mrs Ds residency for tax purposes and Im satisfied thats the case. 
Ive looked at the information required and havent found Lloyds request to be unreasonably 
inconvenient. Im satisfied Lloyds requires more information from Mrs D in order to complete 
the process as it has said. I havent been persuaded that Lloyds request is unreasonable or 
that its treated Mrs D unfairly in this case. 
Mrs D has told us that FATCA only applies to Lloyds and I take her point. But Lloyds has 
explained that if it cant confirm Mrs Ds residency for tax purposes it has to report that 
information on. Im satisfied thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
Lloyds paid Mrs D £50 because it says it shouldve identified the need to confirm her tax 
residency at an earlier stage. I think the settlement paid fairly reflects the delay in identifying 
Mrs Ds personal information isnt up to date.  
Mrs D also raised concerns that a call handler refused to provide their surname. But Mrs D 
was able to take the call handlers first name which was sufficient to identify them. I havent 
seen any evidence that shows Mrs D was treated unfairly as a result of the call handlers 
refusal to give their surname. 
Im satisfied Lloyds has explained why it needs up to date information from Mrs D and that 
its request that she complete the tax residency self-certification form is reasonable. As Im 
satisfied Lloyds dealt with this complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman