DRN-1826747
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mrs S says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
Mrs S opened a store card account in April 1997. A few weeks later, a PPI policy was added 
to the account following a phone call.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Ss card each 
month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, he said he didnt 
think AXA had made the policys cost and benefits clear enough to Mrs S. And taking into 
account the sick pay and other means that shed told us she already had, he didnt think she 
needed the policy enough to make its benefits worth what it cost her.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view. It didnt think we had enough information about 
Mrs Ss alternative means to conclude that the policy was unsuitable for her. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs S 
and to AXA on 8 April 2020. I summarise my findings:
Mrs S has told us she doesnt remember being given an option about whether to take 
the PPI. She says it was part of the contract, and you couldnt decline it. AXAs 
records show that the policy was sold over the phone. It hasnt been able to provide a 
recording of the phone call, but I didnt think that was unreasonable, given that this 
was so long ago. I explained that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I 
need to decide what I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information 
I have.
 
I didnt know what was said to Mrs S about the PPI. But at the point when she took it 
out, shed already had her store card account for more than a month without PPI. So 
I thought it was unlikely shed have thought that the cover was compulsory. Whats more, based on what we know about how AXA sold these policies at around this time 
and everything weve seen in the past, I thought it was more likely than not that AXA 
would have made it clear during the phone call that PPI was optional, and Mrs S 
would have been asked to agree to the cover if she wanted it. So overall, I thought 
she decided to take out the cover, knowing that she didnt have to.
 
Mrs S told us she couldnt remember whether AXA recommended the PPI to her, or 
gave her advice about it. AXA says it wouldnt have done. And from what we know of 
the way it generally sold these policies at the time, I thought that was likely to be 
right. This meant AXA didnt have to check that the PPI was suitable for Mrs S. It was 
for Mrs S to decide whether to take the cover, knowing what other means shed have 
had of making her monthly store card repayments if she was unable to work. But 
AXA did have a responsibility to give Mrs S clear enough information to enable her to 
decide whether the policy was right for her.
 
Mrs S has told us that shed have been entitled to between six and 12 months pay 
from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. She also said she had savings or 
insurance worth at least 6 months of her pay. After AXA responded to the 
adjudicators view of the complaint, we asked Mrs S to provide more details of her 
sick pay and other means. In particular, we asked whether shed have received six 
months full sick pay, or some combination of full pay and half pay. We also asked 
her for more details of the other means shed told us about. But although we asked 
more than once for the information, we didnt receive it.
 
If Mrs S had made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit 15% of what she owed on her 
store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, 
or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been 
repaid - whichever was the earliest. So the policy would potentially have helped with 
Mrs Ss monthly repayments for longer than shed have been entitled to sick pay for. 
And she wouldnt have had to use any savings she had to make her monthly store 
card repayments. So based on what Id seen so far, I couldnt fairly conclude that the 
PPI wouldnt have been useful for Mrs S, or that her alternative means meant that 
she wouldnt have considered it worth taking.
 
I accepted that its possible the information AXA gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But I thought she chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looked as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that 
now, more than 20 years later. Based on what shes told us about her circumstances 
at the time, Mrs S was eligible for the policy. And Id seen nothing to suggest that it 
was unaffordable for her.
 
Mrs S didnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover. So based on what Id seen so far, I wasnt convinced that better information 
about the PPI would have put Mrs S off taking it out. This meant I didnt think shed 
lost out as a result of anything that AXA may have done wrong. This meant I wasnt 
planning to uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
 
further submissionsNeither Mrs S nor AXA has provided any further evidence or comments on my provisional 
decision, and the time for doing so has now expired.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman