DRN-3578607
The complaint
Mr W complains that, in 2005, Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account.
What happened
Mr W had a free account with Barclays for a few years. Then, in May 2005, Mr W agreed to 
change to a First Additions account. This was a packaged bank account (PBA) which cost 
£4 per month and came with a package of benefits. These included mobile phone insurance, 
cardholder protection; and the first £100 of an overdraft (if approved) was interest free, with 
preferential rates for higher agreed overdrafts. 
Mr W says Barclays told him hed have to upgrade his account to a PBA, to be eligible for a 
Barclaycard. He says that, at the same time as starting the PBA, he did apply for a 
Barclaycard but was rejected. He says he applied multiple times in the following years but 
was refused each time. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr W didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive kept 
that approach in mind when considering this case.
Mr W has given some details of his severe health problems. These happened in December 
2005, which is after the start of the PBA in May 2005; and so those very difficult 
circumstances dont affect how Im looking at what happened in May 2005.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
If Barclays gave Mr W false information, such as that the account would help him get a 
Barclaycard, that would have been wrong. But I would need good evidence of this. When 
someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness 
requires there to be evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt usually be fair to 
make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was several years 
ago.
The main problem is that this all happened about 17 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising 
if someone didnt remember the detail of everything that happened that long ago. He may be 
remembering what happened fully, but it would not be fair to rely only on what he now 
remembers.  
Overall, I dont have strong evidence to support Mr Ws recollection that Barclays gave him 
misleading information. So I cant fairly uphold the complaint on that point.
Ive thought about other ways the account might have been mis-sold. 
I dont have evidence that Barclays was making a personalised recommendation to Mr W 
that was based on an assessment of his circumstances. And Barclays says it in fact would 
have just given Mr W information about the account. So this means it would have been up to 
Mr W to decide for himself if the account fitted his needs and was worth the cost. 
Barclays had to give Mr W enough information about the account, so he could make an 
informed decision. I cant be sure what information it did give, but Ive seen its welcome pack 
at the time which shows the type of information it gave. I think that would have been enough 
for Mr W to be able to decide. And, in any case, the account was fairly straightforward, so I 
think its likely hed have been given enough basic information by the bank employee who 
sold the account to him. 
In summary, I dont have good evidence that the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman