DRN-2362374
The complaint
Mr A says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as TSB) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr A says he bought a monthly premium PPI policy in September 1996 at the same time as 
taking out a credit card during a meeting. The card ended in 2006.
Mr A says the policy was mis-sold to him. Mr A says he had no idea he had the PPI policy 
and was unaware that it was added to his card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint because:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr A when he discussed having a credit 
card with an advisor from Lloyds. But Ive looked at sales documentation and considered 
what I know of Lloyds branch sales at that time. After doing this, I consider it is most 
likely that he was advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect his card 
repayments, and he took it on that advice by signing the agreement.
I have come to this conclusion because I can see in the sample application form 
provided that there is a separate section for PPI where Mr A would have had to tick a 
box to agree to it. PPI is also described within this sample application as an optional 
requirement. I havent been able to see any evidence that anything different happened in 
this sale and although I do acknowledge what he has said, Mr As recollections have not 
persuaded me on this occasion that anything different happened here. So, on balance, 
as I have already concluded, I think Mr A was given a choice in the meeting.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr A, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The benefit provided by 
the policy would have been useful to him if he had any extended period of sickness or 
unemployment (he told Lloyds that he had statutory sick pay and around £1000 of 
savings to rely on). Any claim could have been paid for up to 12 months and would have 
provided him with additional income at a difficult time.

So, I think the policy recommended to Mr A would have been of use and so I cannot 
conclude that it would have been unsuitable for him based on what I have seen. I also 
dont think there were any significant terms or exclusions that made the policy unsuitable 
for Mr A either.
Lloyds has been unable to provide evidence that it provided clear costs at the time of 
sale. But I dont think Mr A wouldve changed his mind about taking the policy if this cost 
was presented clearly to him during the meeting (for the same reasons why I think the 
policy is suitable).
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mr A wouldve been affected by any of these, due to his circumstances at the time of 
sale.
I know this will be a disappointment to Mr A but I cannot find a reason to uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman