DRN-3727480
The complaint
Mrs R complains about her home emergency policy with British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas). The complaint is about how British Gas responded to a problem with her 
boiler. 
References to British Gas in this decision include their agents who provide services under 
the policy.
What happened
In March 2022 Mrs R had a problem with her boiler, following a lack of heating and hot 
water. She contacted British Gas, who arranged for an engineer to come out on the Monday. 
However, when they inspected the boiler, they said there was an intermittent fault with a part 
(a valve). But a replacement part would have to be ordered, so a further appointment was 
arranged for the following day. However, the engineer didnt arrive, so Mrs R contacted 
British Gas to find out what was happening. After several calls she was told an engineer 
would come out on the Friday morning (three days later). 
But the engineer didnt arrive, so Mrs R contacted British Gas again. An engineer was sent 
out on the Friday afternoon, but didnt have the necessary part to fix the boiler. So, it was 
ordered for the following Monday. An engineer visited on the Monday and fixed the problem. 
However, a second engineer arrived while the first engineer was fixing the problem.
Mrs R was unhappy at what had happened, as her husband had to take a day off and lost 
pay. So, she complained to British Gas about the service shed received. In their final 
response British Gas apologised for the missed and rescheduled appointments and the 
inconvenience caused. They offered £50 in compensation. 
Mrs R then complained to this service. She was unhappy at what had happened and 
the inconvenience shed suffered from the missed appointments and the boiler not 
being fixed until a week after the original appointment. Her husband had to take time 
off and had lost pay. She didnt think the compensation offered by British Gas was 
enough for the inconvenience she (and her husband) had suffered. She wanted 
British Gas to pay £150 for her husbands lost pay as well as a further £50 in 
compensation.
When responding to this services request for information about the complaint, British 
Gas said they sometimes had to cancel or rearrange appointments at times of high 
demand and to meet the needs of priority or vulnerable customers (and this was 
made clear in the policy terms and conditions). They also said the policy terms and 
conditions contained a general exclusion for compensating policyholders (or their 
relations) for any loss of earnings arising from something insured under the policy 
(which would include delayed, cancelled or rearranged appointments). And in Mrs Rs 
case, the loss of earnings was for her husband  but Mrs R was the policyholder
Our investigator upheld Mrs Rs complaint, concluding British gas hadnt acted fairly. 
Considering all the circumstances of the case, she didnt think the £50 offered by 
British Gas adequately compensated Mrs R for the impact on her of what had 
happened. She accepted Mrs Rs husband wasnt the policyholder (and our service 
doesnt usually award compensation for loss of earnings). However, there had been a 
lack of communication to keep Mrs R informed about what was happening about the 
appointments. And it wasnt clear why, on a subsequent visit, a part had to be ordered 
when the need for a part had been flagged in the first visit. And an unnecessary visit 
from a second engineer was made, which would have been frustrating for Mrs R. 
Taking all these factors into account, the investigator thought British Gas should pay 
a further £200 compensation in addition to the £50 it had awarded.
  
British Gas disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said the engineer on the subsequent visit identified the need for 
an additional part to that identified in the initial visit. So, it wasnt a failure on the part of the 
second engineer that a further part was needed  which in turn meant a further visit was 
necessary. In the circumstances, they didnt feel a further £200 in compensation (in addition 
to the £50 theyd awarded) was justified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mrs R.
The key issue in Mrs Rs complaint is she feels shes received poor customer service from 
British Gas when responding to the problem with her boiler. Appointments werent kept (or 
rearranged) and she wasnt kept properly informed about what was happening. And parts 
had to be ordered in two of the visits. As a result, the boiler wasnt fixed until a week after the 
first visit. Shes also unhappy at her husband losing a days pay from having to take time off 
to be at home. She doesnt think the £50 offered by British Gas is sufficient 
For their part, British Gas say they sometimes need to cancel or rearrange appointments, at 
short notice, to meet the needs of other priority customers, including vulnerable customers, 
particularly at times of high demand. They say this is made clear in the policy, as is the 
exclusion for compensation for loss of earnings where appointments are delayed, cancelled 
or rearranged. They also say the need for an additional part was identified from the second 
visit, so necessitating a third visit. Given these factors, they think their award of £50 is fair.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the evidence and information available 
about what happened. Ive concluded British Gas should pay a total of £250 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience Mrs R suffered from the incident. Ill set out why Ive 
come to this view.
Looking at what happened, from the date of the first scheduled visit, I dont think its 
unreasonable for the first engineer to have identified the fault with the boiler and that to fix it 
required a part that wasnt immediately available. So, a further visit would be needed once 
the part was available. However, it didnt take place and after Mrs R contacted British Gas it 
was rearranged for three days later. However, that was rearranged again after Mr s R 
followed up the missed appointment. I understand British Gas saying that additional parts 
can be identified, to those initially identified, but the impact was a further delay until the 
following Monday, when the boiler was fixed. 
So, in total it meant a week between the first visit and the problem being resolved, with two 
cancelled, missed or rearranged appointments. I accept the point made by British Gas that 
balancing the needs of different customers, including vulnerable customers, as well as when 
demand is high, means appointments do need to be cancelled or rearranged, sometimes at short notice. But from what Mrs R has told us, appointments were missed and she had to 
contact British Gas to find out why and arrange fresh appointments. So, I think British Gas 
didnt communicate with her as I would have expected. And the result was Mrs R was 
without a functioning boiler for that time, which would have been very inconvenient for her.
While Mrs R feels British Gas should compensate her for the lost pay of her husband, its not 
something our service does, even with British Gass point about the policy terms and 
conditions including a general exclusion for compensation for lost income.
Taking all these points into consideration, I think a total of £250 in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. That is, a 
further £200 in addition to the £50 British Gas have awarded.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs R a total of £250 for distress and inconvenience (or a further £200 if theyve 
already paid the £50 they awarded Mrs R).
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell them Mrs R accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman