DRN-2583642
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that they were mis-sold a packaged bank account by Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
Mr and Mrs R say that they took out a joint FlexPlus account with Nationwide in January 
2014. They say they were not properly informed about the terms and conditions of the 
mobile phone insurance and if they had been, they would not have paid a monthly fee for 
such an account. They also say the terms and conditions were later changed and they were 
not informed about that either.
Nationwide says it did tell Mr and Mrs R properly about the terms and conditions of the 
account and the subsequent change to them.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagree so the 
complaint has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr and Mrs R have complained about several aspects of what happened when 
they claimed on the mobile phone insurance that came with the FlexPlus account and these 
complaints have been the subject of other decisions by this service. So, to be clear, in this 
decision I am only looking at the sale of the FlexPlus account and the subsequent change to 
the terms and conditions of that account.
Mr and Mrs R had used a fee free account before they took out the FlexPlus account, so I 
think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R knew they had a choice about whether to 
take out a fee-paying account and they chose to do so based on what Nationwide told them.
Mr and Mrs R say that Nationwide recommended the account to them and advised them to 
take it out. Nationwide says this was an information only sale and they didnt provide advice 
or recommend the FlexPlus account.
Ive not seen any record of an assessment of their demands and needs at the time of the 
sale as I would expect to if this was an advised sale. I can accept what Mr and Mrs R say 
that Nationwide said the FlexPlus account would be a good thing to have as it would give 
them access to a better mortgage rate, but this is not the same as giving formal advice. And 
from what this service has seen, Nationwide sales were by information only at the time of 
this sale. So, I think its more likely than not that this sale was made on an information only 
basis.
So Nationwide was not required to ensure the FlexPlus account was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
R. It was only required to give Mr and Mrs R enough information to make an informed 
decision about whether to take out the FlexPlus account or not.
The FlexPlus account sale took place in a meeting and Nationwide says Mr and Mrs R were 
given a document that summarized the terms and conditions of the account. I dont know 
exactly what was said in the meeting, but Nationwide was trying to sell the FlexPlus account 
to Mr and Mrs R, so I think its likely they explained the key benefits and costs to them in 
detail. Mr and Mrs R were clearly interested in and knew about the FlexPlus account for the 
mortgage benefits as theyve said, and also the mobile phone insurance and the car 
breakdown service which they subsequently used.
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of the FlexPlus account as shown in the 
booklet they were given. And I think the information about what should happen if they 
wanted to make a claim for a lost or damaged mobile phone is clear. I know they made a 
separate complaint about what they say did happen when they made a claim, but that is not 
the subject of this decision.
I can also see that the provider of the mobile phone insurance and the terms and conditions 
of the mobile phone insurance subsequently changed. Nationwide has provided a template 
of the letter it sent to all customers at the time about the change. Nationwide had the correct 
address for Mr and Mrs R, and it says other customers received the notification. So, 
although I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs R, I cant say that its more likely than not 
that they didnt receive that notification, as I would need to, if I were to uphold their complaint 
on this point.
The notification letter does, in my view explain what should happen if a phone is lost or 
stolen, which is very similar in essence to the original insurance. And Mr and Mrs R couldve 
challenged this when they received it, but they didnt. Again, what did happen when they 
made their claim is not the subject of this decision.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R knew they had a choice and chose to 
take out the FlexPlus account. I think the sale was information only, and I dont think there 
was anything that they werent told either at the time of sale or when the terms and 
conditions were subsequently changed that would have put them off taking out or continuing 
with the FlexPlus account.
So, in my view, I cant uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman