DRN-1521358
 
Complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business the complaint was set up initially against 
Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) as they were the underwriters of the policy and 
had accepted responsibility for these sorts of sales. However, FICL has now transferred its 
insurance business to AXA France IARD (AXA). Therefore, the complaint has now been set 
up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
Background
Mr M took out a store card in 1995. He was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mr M £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I 
understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mr M was off 
work sick or lost his job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate Mr M will be 
disappointed by this outcome but I will go on to explain why I have reached this decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr M would have been eligible for the policy - because if 
he wasnt, then the policy would have been mis-sold. However, based on Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale, for example his age and his employment, Im satisfied 
Mr M was eligible.
AXA had to make it clear to Mr M that the PPI was optional and needed Mr Ms consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mr M says the representative suggested taking PPI 
would be a good idea and that this would improve his chances of being approved for the 
store card.I cant know for sure what happened during the sale and so Ive thought about what Mr M 
and AXA have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive been given a copy of the credit agreement. Although the copy of the credit 
agreement I have seen is not very clear, I have seen other credit agreements from the time 
of the sale and so am aware of the information that would have been presented. The credit 
agreement has a section for PPI. I can see that Mr M would have had to specifically select 
PPI in order for PPI to be applied to his account. I note that the box to take PPI has been 
ticked. If this box hadnt been ticked then I cant see that PPI would have been applied to  Mr 
Ms account at this time. 
I appreciate what Mr M says about the representative telling him that PPI would improve his 
chances of getting credit.  And of course its possible that this did happen but given that 
taking PPI wouldnt have impacted Mr Ms chances of being approved and there is nothing to 
suggest this would be the case on the agreement and with no other evidence to support this, 
I cant say that this is more likely, that this is what happened.
So, while I appreciate what Mr M has told us, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely 
that PPI was presented as optional and was only applied to the account because Mr M 
chose to take it out.
From the information available to me and what I know of their sales practice at the time, I 
dont think AXA advised Mr M to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr M. So, for example, although I note what     Mr 
M has told us about his circumstances at the time of the sale  that he had 8 weeks sick pay 
and that he was living rent free with his father - AXA didnt have to ask about or consider  Mr 
Ms existing provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable for Mr M.
But AXA did have to give Mr M clear information so that he could make a proper choice 
about whether to take the policy out. Mr M says he wasnt given clear information. And I 
cant say that AXA gave Mr M all the information as they shouldve about the costs/benefits 
of the policy or the main exclusions and restrictions. This in itself doesn't mean PPI was mis-
sold as  I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mr M off taking 
the policy out. And I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
 
Although Mr M has told us that he would have been entitled to sick pay, the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr M may have received and potentially 
for a longer period of time. It wouldve covered 15% of his repayments every month 
until the outstanding balance had been paid off or he returned to work. And it 
wouldve provided the same cover if Mr M lost his job. I understand that Mr Ms credit 
limit was relatively low, but there was always the potential for this to be increased 
and in any event he would still have been contractually obliged to meet the minimum 
monthly repayments and after 8 weeks of sick pay, this couldnt have been otherwise 
guaranteed.
 
Mr M didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements. So, it seems like Mr M could have made a successful claim under the 
policy if the need arose.
 Although I note what Mr M says about missing some payments, I havent seen any 
evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr M at the time of 
the sale. 
 
Mr M couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if he 
thought he could no longer afford it or no longer wanted it.
 
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr M was mis-sold this PPI policy. As I have said, 
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by this outcome, however, it is of course up to him 
whether he chooses to accept or reject my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman