DRN-4250665
The complaint
Mrs M complains about HDi Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (HDi) declining a claim 
under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to HDi include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mrs M had a pet insurance policy with HDi covering her dog, which she took out in January 
2016 (when the dog was four months old). In June 2016 the dog had a histiocytoma1 on a 
hind leg, which was removed (for which Mrs M made a claim that HDi accepted).
However, in November 2022 the dog was diagnosed with a second histiocytoma in the same 
area. This was also removed through treatment. Mrs M made a claim for its removal (£547).
However, HDi declined the claim, saying the policy terms and conditions (for the level of 
cover taken out by Mrs M) meant that cover for any one condition was limited to a maximum 
of 12 months after it first occurred (or the maximum amount of benefit under the policy had 
been reached). So, as both the 2016 and 2022 treatments were for the same diagnosis 
(histiocytoma) then under the policy terms, HDi treated them as the same condition. This 
meant the second claim wouldnt be covered.
Mrs M contacted HDi to discuss the decline of her claim but remained unhappy and 
challenged it. She thought the policy wording was ambiguous and should have been clearer. 
She thought the second incidence of histiocytoma was coincidental and that the dog 
developed the same condition for a second time. As six years had passed since the first 
incident, she thought the second claim should be covered as it wasnt a recurring condition 
(it was a separate incident). She also provided an opinion from her vet that while the 
diagnosis was the same, the two incidences werent related and there had been no 
recurrence between the first incidence and the second incidence.
HDi treated this as a complaint but didnt uphold it. In their final response they said review of 
the clinical history confirmed the start date of the dogs histiocytoma was June 2016. As Mrs 
Ms policy was for a 12-month period cover was limited to 12 months (or the financial limit for 
the condition, whichever came first). So, the latest date the histiocytoma would be covered 
was June 2017. HDi referred to the policy terms and conditions in respect of applicable 
benefits under the policy. So, HDi confirmed their view the claim had been declined correctly 
in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mrs M then complained to this service, unhappy at HDis decline of her claim. Shed been 
affected financially by having to pay for the cost of treatment. She wanted HDi to pay for the 
cost (less the policy excess of £99) or make a contribution. She also wanted HDi to make it 
clear to a policyholder on renewal of a policy (following a claim for a condition) they would no 
longer pay for treatment of a condition. She thought HDi should review their approach to 
1 Histiocytomas are common, largely benign, cutaneous (skin) neoplasms of dogs. While they occur in dogs of 
all ages, their incidence is significantly lower for dogs over three years of age.
once in a lifetime episode of curative treatment so as not  to preclude a further episode not 
being covered (after a reasonable passage of time).
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding HDi hadnt acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim. He thought, based on the six-year gap between the two treatments and 
the opinion of Mrs Ms vet, the second incidence of histiocytoma was separate to the first and 
they werent linked. Also, the vets comments that histiocytomas are usually found in dogs 
under three years of age. So, it wasnt fair for HDi to decline the claim based on the 12-
month limit of treatment for a condition under the policy terms and conditions. To put things 
right, the investigator thought HDi should review and pay the claim in full (up to the policy 
limits). They should also pay Mrs M £250 compensation for the trouble and upset to Mrs M 
by not accepting the claim.
HDi disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they referred to a published article about histiocytic diseases in 
dogs indicating the likelihood dropped significantly after three years of age and recurrence of 
the condition (at a new site) was extremely low. While they agreed with the opinion of Mrs 
Ms vet that the two incidences of histiocytoma were unrelated, they both had the same 
diagnostic classification (as both were diagnosed as histiocytomas). HDi also referred to the 
policy definition of the term condition, including reference to an illness having the same 
diagnostic classification or resulting from the same disease. 
HDi also noted the claim form for the second histiocytoma indicated the vet said yes to the 
question about whether the dog had received treatment [for the condition claimed for, or any 
related conditions] previously (mention was made of the histiocytoma treatment in 2016). 
HDi said this was an acknowledgement that the second treatment was a related 
diagnosis/condition  even if not a related incidence. 
In my findings, taking the policy wording on the benefit limit (for the cover level taken out by 
Mrs M) together with the definition of Condition, then I concluded it meant if the same 
condition occurred twice, and the gap between them was more than 12 months, then the 
second incidence fell outside the 12-month limit and so wasnt covered. I thought that was 
the position in this case, as the diagnostic classification referred to in the policy definition 
was the same for both incidences (histiocytoma).
I noted that while Mrs M (and her vet) said the two conditions were unrelated (and HDi didnt 
disagree), that wasnt the determining factor given the policy wording and  critically  the 
definition of Condition. The definition also included the phrase regardless of the number of 
incidents or areas of your Pets body affected. This would also cover the fact that there were 
two incidences of histiocytoma. While they were six years apart, this wasnt part of the 
definition. Some policies included a period after which a condition  should it recur  was 
treated as a separate, new condition and therefore covered. But that wasnt the case here.
So, I concluded HDi acted in line with the policy terms and conditions (including definitions) 
in declining the second claim.
Because I reached different conclusions to those of the investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to provide both parties with the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set 
out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether HDi have acted fairly towards Mrs M. 
The key issue in Mrs Ms complaint is whether HDi acted fairly in declining the claim for the 
second histiocytoma, based on the policy terms and conditions (for the level of cover taken out by Mrs M) that states cover for any condition will cease after 12 months. Mrs M, with her 
vets opinion, says the two incidences werent connected, given the six-year gap between 
the two. 
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by HDi in their decline of the claim and their final response) 
together with the supporting information and evidence, including the opinion of Mrs Ms vet. 
Having done so, Ive concluded HDI have acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
So, they acted fairly and reasonably in declining the second claim. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mrs M, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
In their final response (and response to our investigators view), HDi refer to the policy terms 
and conditions excluding cover for a condition after 12 months, as set out in the policy 
document:
For Our Accident and Illness Essential policy the Benefit Limit only applies per 
Condition for up to 12 months after the onset of the Condition. Cover for any 
Condition will cease after either 12 months or once the maximum Benefit Limit has 
been reached, whichever is the sooner. For our Accident and Illness Extra the 
Benefit Limit only applies per year.
Similar wording is also contained in the Policy Schedule issued when the policy was taken 
out (and at subsequent renewals). This refers to: Once the period of 12 months has 
passedthe Condition will then be excluded from cover meaning no further claims relating 
to that Condition will be paid.
Given HDi (in their response to our investigators view) referred to the policy definition of 
Condition, Ive also looked at this in the policy document. It defines Condition as:
Any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single Accident or any manifestation 
of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from the same 
disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your Pets body 
affected.
While not mentioned by HDi, theres a separate definition of the terms Recurring Condition 
which states:
the reappearance of a Condition, Clinical Sign or symptom of an illness after a 
period of remission.
Looking at the latter definition, I dont think the term would apply to a condition (even of the 
same diagnostic classification) unless the reappearance was linked to the initial incidence of 
the condition. In this instance, given the vets opinion (with which HDi agree) the two 
incidences of histiocytoma arent linked or related, then I dont think thats the case.
However, taking the policy wording on the benefit limit (for the Accident and Illness Essential 
policy  the cover level taken out by Mrs M) together with the definition of Condition, then I 
think it means that if the same condition occurs twice, and the gap between them is more 
than 12 months, then the second incidence falls outside the 12-month limit and therefore 
isnt covered. Thats the position here, as the diagnostic classification referred to in the 
policy definition is the same for both incidences (histiocytoma).
While Mrs M (and her vet) say the two conditions are unrelated (and HDi dont disagree), 
that isnt the determining factor given the policy wording and  critically  the definition of 
Condition. The definition also includes the phrase regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your Pets body affected. This would also cover the fact that there were two 
incidences of histiocytoma. While they were six years apart, this isnt part of the definition. 
Some policies include a period after which a condition  should it recur  is treated as a 
separate, new condition and therefore covered. But thats not the case here.
While Ive concluded HDi acted in line with the policy terms and conditions (including 
definitions) in declining the second claim, Ive also considered Ms Ms point that the policy 
wording was ambiguous and should have been clearer. I dont agree, as I think reading the 
terms and conditions, including the definitions, make it clear  for the level of cover Mrs M 
chose when she took out the policy  that a condition would only be covered for 12 months. 
And that a condition included ones with the same diagnostic classification. And this was 
included in the policy schedules and policy documents issued when the policy was taken out 
(and subsequently at renewals of the policy).
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. 
Mrs M responded to say she noted the provisional decision conclusion meant the diagnostic 
classification being the same was the more important factor  more than the two incidents 
being unrelated (and it was agreed there were two separate events). And there was a 
significant time gap between the two incidents. She also didnt think the 12-month policy limit 
(for the cover shed taken out) made a difference to the reasoning that diagnostic 
classification was more important than incidences being separate and unrelated.
HDi didnt respond by the deadline requested for comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether HDi have acted fairly towards Mrs M.
Ive considered the points raised by Mrs M in her response. But they dont change my 
provisional conclusions. As I set out in the provisional decision, while its accepted the two 
incidences werent related and occurred after a significant gap, the policy wording and  
critically  the 12-month limit under the level of cover taken out by Mrs M mean its the 
diagnostic classifications of the two incidences that are the determining factor. And the gap 
between them, if its more than 12 months.
So, my final decision remains the same, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman