DRN-1456253
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Virgin Money plc has applied an interest penalty after he made a transfer 
from his ISA account. 
What happened
Mr H held a fixed rate ISA with Virgin that was due to mature on 24 September 2019. Any 
withdrawals from the account before maturity would result in a penalty being incurred 
equivalent to 60 days interest on the amount withdrawn.
In July 2019 Virgin sent Mr H an email explaining that it would be merging with another bank 
and that the merge was likely to be completed on 21 October 2019. The email explained a 
bit about what this meant for customers and how this would impact on the cover provided by 
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). It said that, if after the merger a 
customer would be left with more than the FSCS protection limit on deposit, they could make 
a withdrawal to rectify this without incurring a penalty. The email said this transfer would 
need to be done by 21 January 2020. Normal conditions would apply to any transfers after 
that time.
In August 2019 Virgin sent Mr H another email. This again talked about the merger and that 
Mr Hs ISA would automatically be transferred to the merged business. It said that if Mr H 
was unhappy and didnt want the account to transfer to the newly merged bank, he could 
arrange an ISA transfer. The email said this would need to be done before 7 October 2019 
to avoid the account automatically transferring. The email also said that usual terms would 
apply to the transfer.
Mr H tried to transfer money from his account on 5 September 2019. But this didnt go 
through, so he rang Virgin to find out why. Virgin explained that it had put a marker on his 
account, to identify it as one that would potentially be affected by the change to FSCS 
coverage and that this had prevented the transfer. Mr H told the adviser that this was part of 
the reason for the transfer. The adviser agreed to contact the relevant department to have 
this marker removed. The adviser also explained that a partial withdrawal at that stage would 
still incur a penalty. They said that withdrawals (due to the change in FSCS coverage) would 
only be penalty free after 21 October 2019. Transfers before then, as a result of 
unhappiness with the merger or for any other reason, would still be subject to the existing 
terms and incur a penalty. The adviser pointed out though that Mr H would be able to make 
withdrawals penalty free after his account matured on 24 September 2019. Mr H said he felt 
the emails hed received were misleading. The adviser said hed arrange for the marker on 
the account to be removed, but this would take until the following day and that hed ring Mr H 
back to confirm and discuss further.
Mr H withdrew £102,000 from his account, incurring an interest penalty of approximately 
£251.The adviser from Virgin then called Mr H back on 6 September 2019 to discuss (after the 
withdrawal had been made). The adviser explained that the penalty had been applied 
correctly. Mr H still felt that the emails had been misleading, and he had interpreted them 
differently. He logged a complaint as he wanted the interest penalty to be waived. Virgin 
maintained it had not made an error so Mr H asked our service to consider the complaint.
An investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Virgin had made a mistake by 
charging the interest penalty in line with the terms of the account.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator. He said that the emails had been misleading and if 
they hadnt been sent he wouldnt have incurred the interest penalty as hed have waited 
until after his account matured to move funds. As Mr H didnt agree with the investigators 
findings, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties agree that the terms of Mr Hs account said that any withdrawals before maturity 
would incur an interest penalty. The disagreement is over whether Mr H was given 
misleading information that made him think this no longer applied.
Ive thought about the emails that Mr H was sent. 
The email Mr H was sent by Virgin in July 2019, talking about FSCS coverage, says if youd 
like to bring your total balances down to the FSCS limit following the transfer . you may 
choose to move some of your savings to another bank. If you do, well make sure you are 
able to do so without incurring a penalty or losing any accrued interest  Youll just need to 
make the transfer by 21 January 2020. After that, the usual terms of your account(s) will 
apply again.
The piece of information relevant to Mr Hs complaint is the part that says after the transfer. 
This is talking about the transfer of business / merger of companies. The email indicated 
separately that this would be on 21 October 2019. Had the date been repeated, it mightve 
been clearer that penalty free transfers could only be made after 21 October 2019. But even 
without this I still think it is reasonably clear.
The second email Mr H was sent, covering options if he was unhappy with the merger, says 
Your usual terms and conditions will apply to the transfer if you move your Cash E-ISA. We 
need to receive the transfer instructions from your new provider by 7 October 2019 to ensure 
the request goes through before the change. So I think this was clear that any transfers from 
the ISA before 7 October 2019 would incur a penalty as per the terms.
I also think it is clear that the emails are referring to different subjects  one was about 
changes to FSCS coverage and the other was about whether customers had general 
concerns about the merger. I can understand why Mr H has said he considered them linked 
but I dont agree that they are contradictory.
 
 
But more importantly, Ive listened to the call Mr H had with Virgin on 5 September 2019. In it 
the call handler explained that a withdrawal at that time would incur a penalty. They said that the penalty free withdrawals due to FSCS limit changes could only be made after 21 October 
2019. And also pointed out that Mr Hs account matured on 24 September 2019  after 
which time money could be moved clearly. This was all before Mr H transferred money. He 
indicated he disagreed with the interpretation of the email but I think it was made clear to him 
before he made the transfer that the usual terms, including the interest penalty, would apply. 
And he chose to proceed. 
So based on everything Ive seen I dont think Virgin provided misleading information and I 
dont think it made an error by applying an interest penalty when Mr H withdrew money from 
his ISA before maturity.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman