DRN-3425632
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of a limited company, G, that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined a 
claim under its property owners insurance policy. I will refer to G throughout for simplicity.
What happened
G has a property it rents to residential tenants which is covered by a residential property 
owners insurance policy provided by QIC. 
In July 2020 part of a ceiling inside the property fell down. G arranged for works to be carried 
out to rectify the damage and these works proceeded. 
About 15 days after the damage happened, G made a claim to QIC who sent a loss adjuster 
to inspect the property. The works were finished by the end of July, but the loss adjuster 
didnt visit until early August.
Evidence was supplied by G to show the extent of the damage, together with statements 
about what had happened from the tenants and other parties involved in the repair. QIC 
declined the claim. It said that there was no evidence of an operating event and that the 
ceiling was a type that naturally deteriorates over time.
G complained to QIC who reviewed the claim.  QIC repeated that it didnt think there was 
evidence of a one-off event causing the damage and that itd been happening over a period 
of time.
G brought its complaint to this service. An investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. He 
considered two ways Gs claim might have been considered under its policy. He said he 
couldnt find evidence that thered been a storm that had affected the property. He also said 
that he didnt agree the fallen ceiling could have been classed as accidental damage 
because there wasnt evidence to say itd been caused by something unexpected and 
unforeseen. 
So, our investigator said he agreed with QIC that the damage had been gradually operating 
and QIC could fairly and reasonably apply its wear and tear exclusion.
G didnt agree with the view. It maintained it regarded the ceiling falling down as being 
caused by accidental damage. As G didnt agree with the view, its complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
In its response to our investigators view, G agrees that the damage wasnt caused by a 
storm and says that the cause is accidental damage. When this service is considering cases 
involving claims for accidental damage we would consider causes to be covered when they 
are unforeseen and unintentional.
With this in mind, I have looked carefully at all of the photos and statements provided by all 
the parties in this complaint.
I can see that Gs tenants have said they encountered repeated problems with water leaking 
through the ceiling of the property while they lived there. They say that repairs were carried 
out, but the leaks would return.
Contractors working on the property have said they believe the ceiling fell due to an old leak 
from a window ledge or rain pipes.
Another contractor says its clear that the ceiling damage has been caused by a slow leak 
and suggests the leaks source is the guttering and rain water pipes above the ceiling that 
fell down.
Those three separate statements, when combined with the photos of the property and 
damage, indicate to me that the cause was by water leaking into the property over a long 
time. The water leaks seem to have been caused by poor maintenance on the property and I 
can see evidence of small trees and bushes growing in the external guttering meaning that 
they probably hadnt been cleared and then kept clear. 
QIC also say that it wasnt able to inspect the condition of the ceiling as it was already 
repaired when its loss adjuster visited, but it was able to say that the type of ceiling was old 
and subject to deterioration over time. I can see from photos of the remainder of the ceiling 
that there is evidence of significant cracking which leads me to agree with QICs position.
These factors combined persuade me that the ceiling that collapsed was in a deteriorating 
condition and being affected by leaks from the external rainwater gutters and gulleys. These 
leaks seem to have been operating for some considerable time rather than being a sudden 
one-off cause. So it follows that I think its fair and reasonable that QIC can decline the claim 
because the damage caused wasnt unforeseen.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman