DRN-3215356
The complaint
A has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limited when he sought roadside 
assistance and made a claim under the Parts and Garage cover of his breakdown policy. 
Acromas rejected a claim Mr A made for repairs. 
Acromas is the underwriter of this part of the policy. All reference to Acromas in my decision 
includes its agents.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr A called Acromas for assistance as he had broken down in his car. 
Acromas arranged for a recovery agent to attend. The advice was for Mr As car to be taken 
to a garage for repairs which couldnt be carried out at the roadside. Mr A had a choice to 
take his car to an approved garage of Acromas or to his preferred garage. Mr A said he took 
his car to a local garage which he thought was approved by Acromas  but it wasnt. 
Acromas asked for evidence of the required repairs with a parts invoice when the garage 
ordered it. Acromas said it needed this before it would authorise Mr As claim in line with the 
policy. Mr A was unhappy with the way Acromas intended to deal with the claim. He said the 
garage advised it wouldnt provide a parts invoice. Mr A felt he was stuck in the middle and 
just wanted his car to be repaired. But Acromas said it was following the correct process - so 
that it could understand the costs of the repairs and that the parts were genuine. So without 
this information, Acromas said it wouldnt authorise the claim. 
Mr A said he would arrange for the repairs to be done and then provide Acromas with an 
invoice. In August 2021 Mr A provided Acromas with a sales invoice but not a parts invoice. 
Acromas declined Mr As claim and reiterated its request for a parts invoice.
Having received a parts invoice later in August 2021 from Mr A, Acromas wasnt satisfied 
with it and didnt authorise the claim. It was dated two days before Acromas had discussed 
repairs with the garage. And the invoiced part wasnt from a dealer as the garage had 
advised Acromas in an earlier call. 
Mr A asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted Acromas to reimburse him for the costs of 
the repairs and for the costs he paid for a hire car while his car was at the garage. 
Our Investigator initially recommended Mr As complaint should be upheld. He agreed that 
Acromass request was reasonable  but he didnt think it was fair for Mr A not to be 
reimbursed. He thought Mr A had done his best to obtain the information Acromas required 
from the garage. So he recommended Acromas reimburse Mr A for the costs of the repairs 
up to the policy limit and minus the excess due. 
Acromas didnt agree. It said it had concerns about the validity of the claim. In November 
2021 it cited its fraud exclusion under the policy and told Mr A this was the term it applied 
when deciding to decline his claim.  
Our Investigator issued a second view and no longer recommended upholding Mr As 
complaint. He thought Acromas had fairly applied the fraud exclusion in light of the 
information it had received. 
Mr A didnt agree. He wants Acromas to arrange an independent inspection of his car and 
wants reimbursement for the costs of the repairs. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Acromas can decline a claim if it believes a condition of the policy has been breached. In this 
case, Acromas say, based on the evidence it has, the claim for repairs breaches the fraud 
condition of their policy. 
The terms and conditions of Acromas policy say:
If We discover that You, anybody insured under this policy or anyone acting for You 
has knowingly:
made a fraudulent or false claim in full or in part or exaggerated the amount of 
the claim or provided false or invalid documents in support of a claim; or
misrepresented any answers to Our questions or withheld any relevant 
information in order to influence the AA, or the Insurer, to accept a claim; or
provided false or invalid documents in support of a claim; or
following an allegation or suggestion of fraud by the Insurer, the AA, or any 
other Insurer, withdrawn a claim, had a claim refused or declined or had a 
policy cancelled or made void.
We may:
treat Your policy as if it never existed from the date of the fraud or 
misrepresentation and retain any premium You have paid for this policy.
serve You a 7 day notice of cancellation on all other policies that You hold 
with Us; and pass details to the Police and fraud prevention agencies; or
Refuse to pay the whole of Your claim if any way fraudulent, false or 
exaggerated and recover from You any costs that have been incurred.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Acromas can decline a claim if this term of the policy has 
been breached. 
It isnt for us to decide whether a policyholder or anyone acting for the policyholder has acted 
fraudulently or not. Instead, I need to decide if Acromas acted reasonably on raising the 
fraud condition and taking the action it has. So Ive looked at what Acromas has taken into 
account, and whether I think this was fair.
When Mr A was advised his car needed to go to a garage for repairs, he had the choice to 
use an approved repairer of Acromas or his preferred garage. 
Call notes and recordings provided by Acromas show that it spoke to Mr As preferred 
garage on 29 July 2021 and 10 August 2021. On 29 July 2021 Acromas discussed the 
repairs and the garage said it hadnt yet ordered parts. Acromas asked the garage to provide 
a parts invoice in order for it to be able to authorise Mr As claim, which it agreed. On 10 
August 2021 after repairs were completed, Acromas asked the garage for the parts invoice. 
The garage said the part had been ordered from a dealer and it would pass the parts invoice 
to Mr A to provide. 
Mr A initially told Acromas that it would take some time for the garage to provide a parts 
invoice  and later expressed his dissatisfaction with Acromas request for one at all  as he 
said the garage told him one wasnt available.
Acromas explained that this isnt an unusual request and they receive parts invoices from 
garages all the time when dealing with claims. The parts invoice is available once a part has 
been ordered and provides details of the part(s) required, the warranty and the price. 
Bearing this in mind, I dont think Acromas request to the garage was unusual or 
unreasonable. When Acromas maintained its decision to decline the claim until a parts invoice was 
provided, Mr A was able to obtain and send a parts invoice from a separate garage. 
However, the date on the invoice was 27 July 2021  two days before Acromas first 
conversation with the garage when they said they hadnt yet ordered any parts. So the date 
of the parts invoice was inconsistent with the information given to Acromas.
On further examination, Acromas found the order number for the part on the parts invoice 
provided didnt match the chassis number of Mr As car, wasnt from a dealer as the garage 
told Acromas in a second call on 10 August 2021, and was for more money than the 
correctly listed part for Mr As car to buy. 
I understand Mr As strength of feeling about his complaint. But Ive taken an even handed 
approach to all of the information available. And putting all of its concerns together, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Acromas to decide its fraud condition had been breached. And 
having reached that conclusion, I dont think Acromas acted unreasonably in deciding to 
decline Mr As claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman