The complaint
Mr S complains about issues he's experienced with a car supplied with finance from First 
Response Ltd.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire-purchase agreement 
with First Response. At the point of supply the car was 11 years old and had covered 
mileage of approximately 124,000.
Within a short time of getting the car Mr S reported issues. He said the dealership had 
carried out a repair to the suspension but when the car was returned to him there were 
warning lights illuminated on the dashboard and a banging noise from the back of the car.
First Response arranged for an independent inspection of the car. This took place in 
December 2019. The inspection concluded that there were no faults with the car.
Mr S wasn't happy with the outcome of the independent inspection. He contacted First 
Response again in June 2019 to advise that the car had been returned to the dealership for 
repairs. He asked to reject the car. 
First Response refused. It said Mr S had already accepted repairs which had been 
completed.
Mr S was unhappy with the response and complained to this service. He said the car was 
still faulty despite the repairs.
Mr S has since sold the car and settled the outstanding finance. He still wants to know 
whether he can reject the car. He also wants compensation for the inconvenience he's been 
caused.
Our investigator didn't think there was enough evidence to show that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. Mr S didn't agree. He said the car had been 
back to the dealer several times for repairs. He also said he would provide information from 
the mechanic who had worked on the car.
This service tried to contact the mechanic unsuccessfully and also asked Mr S to provide the 
information he'd promised. But he hasn't provided anything further, so I'm making a final 
decision based on the available information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1584972Because First Response has supplied the car under a hire-purchase agreement, there's an 
implied term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable person would find expect, taking into account all the relevant 
circumstances including (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. I would expect a second hand car - such as that supplied to Mr S - to have a degree of 
wear and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that there 
was an inherent fault with the car, as opposed to issues caused by general wear and tear.
Where a fault occurs within the first 6 months, there's a presumption that it was present or 
developing at the point of supply unless the business can show otherwise. The business is 
allowed one opportunity to repair the car. If the repair isn't successful, the consumer can 
reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and it's up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
I can see that Mr S raised a complaint within the first 6 months. First Response arranged for 
an independent inspection of the car, which concluded that there weren't any faults. I 
appreciate that Mr S disagreed with the conclusions in the independent report. However, he 
hasn't provided any other evidence to challenge it, such as (for instance) a different 
engineers report. I've got no reason to doubt the findings of the independent inspection. 
Based on what it says, I don't think there's any evidence that the car had a fault at the point 
of supply.  
I can see that Mr S complained again in June 2019. This was outside of the first 6 months, 
so it's up to Mr S to show that the car had a fault at the point of supply. If the car did have an 
inherent fault, I think this would have been found at the independent inspection in December 
2019. However, the independent inspection found that the car was free from faults. This 
suggests to me that any fault found in June 2019 must've developed since December 2018. 
Taking into account the age and mileage of the car, and in the absence of any 
evidence which states that the issues Mr S was experiencing in June 2019 were faults which 
would have been present at the point of supply, I think it's more likely than not that these 
issues developed due to general wear and tear.
I appreciate that Mr S has said that the car has been back to the dealer for repairs on 
several occasions. This service asked the dealer for information about what repairs had 
been carried out. The dealer hasn't retained records going back that long ago but said it had 
carried out repairs to the brake discs and pads. Mr S hasn't provided any information to 
confirm that the car has been the subject of multiple repairs. On balance, I haven't seen 
enough information to persuade me that there have been multiple repair attempts.
Based on the available evidence, I'm not persuaded that there was an inherent fault with the 
car. I think its more likely that the issues arose due to general wear and tear during the time 
Mr S was in possession of the car. Because of this, I can't safely conclude that the car was 
of unsatisfactory quality, so I won't be asking First Response to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.Emma Davy
Ombudsman