DRN-3804379
The complaint
Mr M complains that when Monzo Bank Ltd closed his account it added a marker at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr M says that he didnt know that money sent to his account was obtained fraudulently. And 
that the CIFAS marker was affecting his ability to go to University.
Monzo Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that it had followed the correct process in 
closing his account and reporting a marker to CIFAS.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that there was a 
high bar for adding a marker. Monzo Bank had received notifications from two different 
financial businesses that money received into the account in January 2021 had been 
obtained fraudulently. The account had been closed in February 2021.
Mr M had told her that he agreed to allow someone at school who didnt have a bank 
account to receive the money. And that hed asked him whether this was fraud and was told 
it wasnt. Mr M was to receive a share of about £10. And he said that there were two 
payments of £130 one for a games console and the other for a mobile phone. He took out 
the money for the person at school in cash. Mr M had provided some social media screen 
shots, but these didnt confirm any dates and she said arent reliable. Mr M had also said 
that he was selling the goods and the problem came when someone said he hadnt supplied 
the goods. Mr M seemed to have kept more of the money than hed said too. So, she 
thought it most likely that Mr M was complicit in receiving fraudulent funds. And given this 
Monzo Bank had grounds to add the marker and to close Mr Ms account.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He didnt 
want this issue over £250 to affect his whole future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr M was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
Ive noted from the information provided by Monzo Bank that in addition to the two payments 
referred to by our adjudicator a third also for £130 that had been received was reported as 
fraudulent after the account was closed. I note that the account had only been opened on 31 
December 2020 and so a pattern of receiving fraudulently obtained money was quickly 
established in January 2021.
I cant verify whether the two screen shots of social media online chat Mr M says is between 
him and the person who asked him to receive the money are genuine. But I note in any 
event that these only seem to refer to the first payment. And then resume after the account 
was closed. So, I dont see these could give a complete record. 
Mr M has also given two explanations of what was happening. In a complaint form to this 
service dated 23 June 2022 he refers to the other person being involved. But in an earlier 
complaint form dated 30 March 2022 he says he was selling goods, and someone had 
claimed he didnt send them the item - that this was totally unfair and that he had just turned 
16. In any event he seemed to know that the item(s) werent being supplied. And if hed been 
supplying them would reasonably have been able to show this. Money was withdrawn from 
the account. And on his version of events now he says he suspected fraud and hasnt said 
why hed accept the assurances of the person about this especially as there was more than 
one payment.
Having balanced all this information I find that he was complicit in what happened and 
reasonably knew or ought to have known that this money wasnt obtained legitimately.
Monzo Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr M received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Monzo Bank needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ms account of events and the evidence hes provided, Im satisfied that 
Monzo Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr M received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Monzo Bank 
at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.- Monzo Bank had grounds to believe that Mr M had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
Given these findings I also dont think it acted unreasonably when closing his account. I 
know  Mr M will be very disappointed by my conclusions in light of what hes said about the 
impact of the marker for him. But I dont have a reasonable basis to require Monzo Bank to 
take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman