DRN-3731351
The complaint
Ms M complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plcs decision to review and restrict her 
access to her account after she made a scam report.
Ms Ms linked complaint that she has been the victim of a scam is being considered 
separately. 
Ms M is represented by her grandson and power of attorney, Mr M. To make my decision 
easier to read, I will sometimes refer to Ms M even when it was Mr M that said or did 
something. I intend no discourtesy by taking this approach.  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. As such, Ill provide 
only an overview of the most essential facts here.
In Spring 2020, Ms M sold her home. When she received the proceeds from the sale into her 
RBS account, she transferred £65,000 to her granddaughter. This money was used towards 
a property purchase. 
In July 2020, Ms M went into branch and said that shed been scammed and felt pressurised 
into making payments to help her granddaughter buy a flat. The branch staff were concerned 
about what Ms M said and immediately contacted the Police.
On the same day, RBS placed a restriction on Ms Ms account preventing her from making 
large transactions without speaking to the bank first.
On 3 August 2020, Ms M appointed Mr M as her power of attorney. RBS has provided 
evidence to show the power of attorney was registered with the bank on 26 January 2021.
In October 2020, Ms M went into branch and explained she wants to give Mr M money to 
buy a van. RBS told Ms M it would only make the payment if she provided evidence to 
support the purchase. 
On 21 November 2020, Mr M called RBS and explained he was unhappy about needing to 
provide proof of the van. Ms M said she wanted to close her account.
Then Ms M went into branch alone to try and send Mr M the money for the van. Ms M was 
told that she needed to return with Mr M, the power of attorney document and the evidence 
to support the purchase. 
On 23 November 2020, Ms M went back to branch and explained she wanted to close her 
account as she was unhappy shed not been allowed to make the payment. 
Later that day, Mr M spoke to RBS on the phone. The bank said if Ms M wanted to close the 
account, she needed to open a new account elsewhere and then switch the funds out. RBS 
told Mr M that it needed to see an invoice for the van because it wanted to protect Ms M 
from losing any more money. Mr M was frustrated this process was not in place when Ms M 
transferred money to her granddaughter. RBS was adamant it wasnt withholding Ms Ms 
money and that it was acting to protect her. Mr M explained that buying the vehicle was 
important so that Ms M could visit other places to see properties. He said the banks process 
was unworkable. The banks advisor maintained that Ms M and Mr M needed to go into 
branch with documentation. Mr M explained that Ms M had already been into branch. Mr M 
said he didnt want to go into branch and lose his cool. The banks advisor was concerned 
about the phone call and took the decision to call the Police.
On 1 December 2020, Mr M made a complaint. He explained he was unhappy that Ms M 
had been into branch twice and was not allowed to withdraw her money. He was unhappy 
that the bank had sent the Police to Ms Ms address.        
Mr M continued to contact RBS to find out whats going on. He appointed lawyers who 
contacted the bank to find out more, but the bank did not reply. He said Ms Ms life plans had 
been held up for months and no explanation had been given for why. RBS maintained that 
Ms M and Mr M needed to attend a branch with appropriate evidence to support any 
payments she wished to make. 
By January 2021, Ms M had opened a new account with a different bank and tried to switch 
her funds over. But the payment was blocked and the account restrictions remained in place. 
Mr M wanted RBS to pay compensation for the impact the situation was having on Ms M as 
she was unable to buy a new home without access to her funds.  
Then Mr M contacted this service. He explained that RBS had blocked Ms Ms account since 
she had reported fraud and restricted her withdrawals. He said this had resulted in Ms M 
missing out on the opportunity to buy a new property and that she has been left feeling like 
she has done something wrong or is in some way unable to cope, which is not true. He 
added that RBS had told his MP that the account restrictions had been lifted but this is not 
the case.
The account remained restricted until 13 July 2021. Ms M went into branch on 14 July 2021 
to transfer funds but was unable to do so. It was 15 July 2021 when the transfer was 
ultimately made.
Mr M pointed out the transfer was meant to be authorised a long time ago. He said the bank 
had colluded with the Police and social services to put Ms M into care and to put him into a 
mental health hospital. He explained they had lost control over their lives and felt like they 
had been treated as criminals. He said he was completely in the dark about what happened 
and why and wanted to know when and why Police and social services were contacted. 
Mr M explained the fear, anxiety and trauma this situation had caused them both. He 
explained they had lost a lot of money that had been spent preparing to move as well as 
incurring costs. He said RBSs actions prevented Ms M being able to pay for a lawyer to take 
the dispute about the money that was sent to her granddaughter to court. 
Our Investigator considered the matter. He didnt think it was unreasonable for RBS to put 
measures in place to safeguard Ms Ms account given the allegation she had made about 
being scammed out of £65,000 by a family member. 
But he didnt think RBS had clearly explained what Ms M needed to do in order to make 
payments. He also thought it was inappropriate and unnecessary to RBS to have called the 
Police in November 2020, although he did consider the conversation to be heated. He 
thought that the situation overall had impacted Ms M and recommended that the bank 
should pay compensation to her to acknowledge this.He recognised that the situation would have impacted Mr M too, but explained he was 
unable to recommend any specific compensation for the distress and inconvenience that he 
had suffered as a result of this matter because he is not the complainant. 
He suggested that RBS should pay £750 compensation to Mrs M as well as £50 to 
compensate her for any loss incurred by the marginal movement in the exchange rate 
between 14 and 15 July 2021. 
RBS agreed to this and made the payment. Mr M did not accept this position. He was very 
disappointed and did not think the compensation proposed went anywhere near far enough. 
He wanted to know exactly when social services were involved and why account restrictions 
were left in place for months. He said it wasn't fair of the bank to make Ms M prove what she 
was using her own money for. Our Investigator responded to say that whilst the restriction 
wasn't explained well and the communication from the bank was poor, Ms M could've done 
what she wanted to if she'd provided evidence to support the transactions that she wanted to 
make. 
Mr M explained that additional costs had been incurred because of the account block, such 
as storage costs and the costs of obtaining new pet passports that were not used in time. 
Our Investigator invited Mr M to provide further details of these losses so he could consider 
them, but Mr M did not provide anything further, despite being given additional time to do so. 
Ultimately, no agreement could be reached so the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised what has been said in this complaint in far less 
detail than what has been provided and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is 
intended by me in taking this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to 
be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
When making this complaint, Mr M has referred to the actions taken by social services and 
the Police. But as part of my decision, I am only able to make findings on whether RBS has 
acted correctly. I am unable to comment specifically on the validity of actions carried out by 
other organisations. Ive considered RBS actions when reviewing Ms Ms account as that is 
the crux of the complaint that I am able to consider. 
Reviewing Ms Ms account
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice ; and where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. But thats not the end of the story. Regulated firms like RBS are also required to conduct 
their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers (Principle 6). 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
Monitor accounts and any payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams 
Identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances). 
Look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Institutes October 2017 Protecting 
Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
Practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the 
development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available. 
The Banking Protocol is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector 
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office), and Trading 
Standards aimed at identifying customers who are in the process of being defrauded and 
implementing safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss 
of funds.
The general principles of the Banking Protocol  for example to look out for unusual and out 
of character transactions, to ask questions and to escalate internally when in doubt, were 
long established as good practice in July 2020 when Ms M attended the branch to report a 
potential fraud.
All of this means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, 
where a bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make 
additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
Having set out the relevant considerations, I need to decide whether RBS acted fairly and 
reasonably when it applied restrictions to Ms Ms account.
I can appreciate that this was a difficult situation for Ms M. From her perspective, the 
payments she wanted to make were for genuine reasons. But shes also told the bank that 
shed fallen victim to a scam. RBS had a duty to protect its customers money. When Ms M 
reported the potential scam and its surrounding circumstances, the bank was very 
concerned. I dont think it was unreasonable for RBS to want to take steps to satisfy itself 
that Ms M wasnt at risk of financial harm.
RBS, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only pertain 
to when an account is opened. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to 
protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. To comply with its obligations RBS may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access 
to accounts and funds held within them.  Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied RBS were 
acting in line with these obligations when taking the decision to review Ms Ms account and 
put in place account restrictions. 
Ms M is in a demographic of society that the financial regulator considers to be older old. 
Whilst Ms Ms age in and of itself does not make her automatically vulnerable, I can see why 
it would have been a consideration for the bank. From what RBS knew at the time, Ms M 
had recently been in hospital after suffering a bad fall and the relationship with her daughter 
and granddaughter appeared to have broken down. Mr M has explained that his gran was 
effectively homeless, and Ms M had told the bank that she had been pressured into making 
large payments that she didnt really want to make. Against this backdrop, I can see why 
RBS was concerned for her welfare. To comply with its legal and regulatory obligations, RBS 
needed to be sure that Ms M was aware of what was happening on her account. 
Taking everything RBS knew all together, there were indications that Ms M could be in a 
vulnerable position. Its clear the banks staff were concerned on more than one occasion. It 
is because of this concern for her and want to protect her interests that it said Ms M could 
only make larger payments if she provided some supporting evidence to confirm what the 
money was to be used for and that the payment was in line her wishes. I appreciate it would 
have been frustrating for Ms M to not be able to access her money as freely as shed usually 
be able to or would have liked to. But I dont think RBS was acting unreasonably by putting 
measures in place such as the account restrictions that were intended to protect Ms M. 
I do appreciate there is a delicate balance to be struck. Ms M is free to use her own money 
as she wishes and when accounts are subject to restrictions, that inevitably causes some 
degree of inconvenience. Its clear that emotions ran high on both sides and I dont doubt 
this was a stressful experience for everyone involved.
I understand that Mr M would like RBS to give a full explanation for the reasons why it 
decided to review Ms Ms account, exactly what steps it took and what information led it to 
act in the way it did. He has referred to the bank unfairly involving the Police and social 
services. But RBS doesnt have to disclose what triggers it to review a customers account or 
the reasons behind an ongoing account restriction, as much as Mr M and Ms M would like to 
know. So I cant say RBS has done anything wrong by not sharing this information and it is 
not appropriate for me to require it to do so.
I know Mr M is very concerned about all that has gone on. Its clear from what hes said that 
he feels personally targeted by the actions of the bank and other agencies that have been in 
contact with them. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms frustration and strength of feeling, its important 
to point out that the only thing in question here at this service is whether RBS has done what 
it should have done. I dont think RBS acted unfairly or made a mistake by placing the 
restriction on Ms Ms account and from what Ive seen, I dont think RBS could have 
removed the restriction any sooner than it ultimately did. 
RBS agreed with our Investigators position that it could have handled the situation much 
better than it did. Even though by applying the account restriction RBS was acting in line with 
its regulatory obligations and in Ms Ms best interests, RBS has accepted that it could have 
been clearer and given better information directly to Ms M about what she needed to do in 
order to make larger payments. I think the £750 compensation RBS has now paid to 
acknowledge the distress and inconvenience it caused to Ms M along with the £50 it 
awarded to compensate for the loss caused to the funds Ms M wanted to transfer due to a 
modest movement in exchange rates is fair. I recognise that Mr M considers this compensation does not go far enough. But as the 
account in question is in Ms Ms name, Mr M is not able to complain to us about this matter 
in his own right. He is authorised in law to represent Ms M. This means I am unable to make 
an award of compensation to acknowledge the distress, inconvenience and financial losses 
Mr M has described experiencing as a result of the impact of this matter. 
Overall 
I know that Ms M and Mr M will be frustrated and upset with my decision. I recognise how 
strongly they feel about the situation. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I consider RBSs 
actions to be proportionate in all the circumstances. As such, I cannot fairly require it to do 
anything more than it has already done.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, in so far as I agree that the compensation The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc has already paid is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman