DRN-2579132
The complaint
Mr M says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading at the time as Egg) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy was added to 
Mr Ms credit card account when he applied for the card over the internet.
The PPI cost 59p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. If Mr M had made a 
successful claim, it would have paid 10% of his outstanding credit card balance for up to 
12 months if he was off sick, or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely, 
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a screenshot of the part of the online credit card application process in which 
PPI would have been offered to Mr M. It includes equally prominent options to take or 
decline PPI. Egg says Mr M wouldnt have been able to go ahead with his application 
unless he chose one of these options.
Im satisfied, on balance, that the PPI would only have been added to Mr Ms account if 
hed selected the option to take it. And I think that the way that the PPI was presented 
during the application process made it clear that the PPI was optional. So taking 
everything into account, I think Mr M chose to take the PPI, realising that he didnt have 
to - although I can understand how he may no longer remember this, so many years 
later.
Im satisfied that Mr M applied for the credit card online. I think its unlikely that he had 
any direct contact with Eggs staff during the application process. So I dont think Egg 
recommended the PPI to Mr M. This means it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. It was for Mr M to decide whether to take the PPI, knowing what other means he 
had of making his credit card repayments if he was off sick or unable to work. But Egg 
did have a responsibility to give Mr M enough clear information about the PPI to enable 
him to decide whether he wanted it.
I acknowledge that Mr Ms told us hed have been entitled to at least six months pay, but 
less than 12 months pay, from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. If hed made 
a successful claim on the policy, it would have paid 10% of his credit card balance each 
month for up to 12 months. So it would potentially have carried on paying out for longer 
than Mr M would have been entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out 
in addition to any payments Mr M received from his employer. So he could have used 
those to meet other expenses. And he wouldnt have had to use his savings to make his 
monthly credit card repayments.
Taking everything into account, I think the protection the policy offered could have been 
useful to Mr M.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I think Mr M chose to take out the policy - so it looks as if he wanted this 
type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now. Based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look as if hed have been affected by any of 
main things the policy didnt cover  for example provisions about existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment situations.
The policy was competitively priced. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr M couldnt 
afford it. Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about it 
would have put him off taking it out. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)- so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr M, that was 
unfair.
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the and its already done this, so I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman