DRN-1993017
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the fees Allay Claims Ltd charged him for representing him in 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claims.
What happened
Mr H instructed Allay to represent him in claims for mis-sold PPI. Several of these were 
successful, so Allay invoiced Mr H for its fees.
Mr H asked Allay to reduce their fees but Allay wouldnt agree. Mr H made a complaint to 
Allay. He said he didnt think the fees were proportionate to Allays role in recovering funds 
from a lender. Mr H was also concerned that Allay had calculated its fees of 24% (including 
VAT) based on the gross amount of the settlement, rather than the amount Mr H had 
actually received, once tax had been deducted. Mr H said he also wasnt aware he could 
have received compensation directly from the lender, without needing to use a claims 
management company.
Allay said its fees were in line with the terms Mr H had agreed to when he gave his authority 
for Allay to represent him. The terms also made it clear he could submit his complaint 
directly to the lender, without Allays involvement. 
Mr H remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns, but he didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He thought Allay 
had given Mr H clear information about its fees. He was also satisfied that Mr H had received 
his settlement from the lender as a result of Allays involvement. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think it was fair for Allay to take a 
substantial amount of money for writing one or two letters on his behalf. He felt he would 
have received the same settlement from the lender without Allays involvement. He hadnt 
complained directly to the lender because hed been busy with his studies. He was also 
hoping wed look at his case from a compassionate point of view, take his age and poor 
health into consideration.
As Mr H has disagreed with our investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
The terms of engagement Mr H agreed to when he gave his authority for Allay to represent 
him explains that Allay would act for him on a No Win No Fee basis. It says:
We are entitled to receive 24% (inclusive of VAT where applicable) of redress recovered 
relating to all accounts with your lenders, no matter if received after the initial settlement, 
whether the redress was received in whole or part by way of loan/arrears reduction, refund 
of premiums, and/or in cash. The fee is calculated before any applicable tax 
payment/deduction for which you are liable (gross amount).
It goes on to give some examples to show how the fee is calculated. 
So, I think Allay gave Mr H clear information about its fees, including that it would be based 
on the settlement amount before tax had been deducted by the lender. 
The terms also say:
You understand that you could pursue any complaint against the lender yourself, without 
the involvement of Allay.
So, I think Allay also made it clear that Mr H could have made his PPI claim directly to the 
lender. 
Mr H received a substantial settlement from a lender to compensate him for mis-sold PPI. I 
appreciate how upsetting it must be for Mr H to have to pay such a high proportion of it in 
fees. He doesnt think the fees justify the amount of work Allay has done. But Allay agreed to 
represent Mr H on a no win, no fee basis so its fee didnt need to reflect the amount of work 
or time it spent on Mr Hs case. And I think it made Mr H aware of this when he agreed to 
use its services.
I understand Mr H has several serious health conditions and is also experiencing financial 
difficulty. While I empathise with Mr H, I cant tell Allay to reduce its fee, because I dont think 
its done anything to mislead him into believing it would be lower. Allay has offered to agree 
an arrangement plan with Mr H and I think this is reasonable. Mr H should contact Allay if he 
wishes to take it up on this offer, if he hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman