DRN-3965087
The complaint
Mr B says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr B took out two instalment loans from 118 118 Money. 
Loan 1 was for £1,000 over 12 months and was active from 4 February 2018 to 18 January 
2019. The monthly repayments were £117.26 and the total repayable was £1,407.12. 
Loan 2 was for £5,000 over 60 months and was active from 14 April 2021 to 11 November 
2022. The monthly repayments were £163.46 and the total repayable was £9.807.60.
Mr B says he was struggling financially when he applied and was surprised when he was 
accepted, particularly for loan 2 as he had a loan default and a CCJ registered against him in 
the previous 12 months.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint about loan 1. He said 118 118 Moneys checks 
showed Mr B was already spending a large proportion of his income on credit and his total 
expenses exceeded his income. He found 118 118 Money was not wrong, however, to give 
Mr B loan 2 based on the results of its proportionate checks. 
118 118 Money accepted this assessment. Mr B asked for loan 2 to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman so the case was passed to me. He said loan 2 was taken shortly after 118 118 
Money had given him a credit card that he was using for cash advances. He had defaulted 
on car finance in 2020, his credit history may have looked okay as a charity cleared some of 
his debt in January 2021 but his rating had previously always been poor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr B would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
- If so, did it make fair lending decisions?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this
meant that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loans wouldnt 
cause Mr B undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. As both parties now agree that loan 1 
should not have been given, I will focus here on loan 2. 
118 118 Money has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some
information from Mr B. It asked for his monthly income, his housing costs and his general
living costs. It says it sense checked these against reasonable averages, it hasnt confirmed
if it then made any adjustments. It carried out a full credit check to understand Mr Bs credit
history and his existing credit commitments. Based on these checks 118 118 Money thought 
it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate given the term of the loan, the stage in the lending
relationship and the amount of the monthly repayment relative to Mr Bs declared income.
Mr Bs credit check showed a relatively low level of existing debt  £777. This was 
significantly lower than when he applied for loan 1 when it was £14,395. I note Mr B has 
explained this was because he received financial assistance from a charity, but that doesnt 
change the fact 118 118 Money would have seen a much-reduced level of indebtedness. 
Mr B had six active accounts and no significant arrears. Mr B says he had recently defaulted 
on a loan and had a CCJ, but this was not listed on the lenders credit check. This maybe as 
not all lenders report to all the credit reference agencies, and there can be timing 
discrepancies. But I can only fairly expect 118 118 Money to base its decision on the data its credit search returned. Mr B also raised that he was withdrawing a lot of cash on credit, but 
at the time of this loan application I dont think it was at such a level (£555 in 12 months) that 
the lender ought to have been concerned. 
I am sorry to hear it was hard for Mr B to make his repayments but based on the results of
the lenders checks I dont think it was irresponsible for 118 118 Money to lend to him. And I
think the checks were sufficient in the circumstances of the application.
It follows I dont think 118 118 Money was wrong to give this loan to Mr B.
Ive also thought about whether 118 118 Money acted unfairly in some other way and I
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
Loan 1
Its reasonable for Mr B to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
I can see Mr B asked the adjudicator if the refund of interest and charges on loan 1 could be 
used to offset the outstanding balance on his credit card, rather than loan 2. We asked this 
question of 118 118 Money but it did not reply. If this is an option, I would ask the lender to 
contact Mr B to agree which of his debts he wants the refund to be used to reduce. If it 
cannot be done, I would ask 118 118 Money explains why not to Mr B.
So 118 118 Money must:
- Remove all interest, fees and charges on loan 1 and treat all the payments Mr B
made as payments towards the capital.
- As reworking Mr Bs loan account will result in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should use this amount to 
reduce the balance on either Mr Bs credit card account or the account of loan 2 -  
8% simple interest should be applied to the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
- Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint in part. Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman