DRN-3627602
The complaint
Mr C and Miss G complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a curtailment
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 27 September 2020, Mr C and Miss G took out a single trip travel insurance policy
through a broker, which was underwritten by IPA. The policy was taken out to cover a
package holiday Mr C and Miss G had booked through a travel provider Ill call J. Mr C and
Miss G planned to travel between 30 September and 10 October 2020. They flew abroad as
planned.
However, shortly after their arrival at their destination, Mr C tested positive for Covid-19.
Therefore, Mr C and Miss G had to move to and self-isolate in a government quarantine
hotel abroad. They were repatriated back to the UK on 17 October 2020. As theyd been
unable to make use of the last eight days of their 10-day planned trip, they made a
curtailment claim on their travel insurance policy for their unused costs.
IPA told Mr C and Miss G that it required a breakdown of the package holiday costs from J
before it could proceed with their claim.
But J told Mr C and Miss G that it wasnt able to provide such a breakdown, although it did
confirm that Mr C and Miss Gs trip had had to be cut short and what the total cost of the
holiday had been. IPA maintained that it couldnt proceed with the claim until it received a full
cost breakdown from J and that indeed, the policy terms required Mr C and Miss J to provide
necessary claims evidence. It said though that there was no time limit on providing this
information.
Mr C and Miss G were unhappy with IPAs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that IPA had treated Mr C and Miss G unfairly. She was satisfied
that the policy terms required Mr C and Miss G with evidence to support their claim. And she
felt IPAs evidence request was reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 June 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think IPA had treated Mr C and Miss G fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of Mr C and Miss Gs policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide
whether IPA treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of the contract between IPA
and Mr C and Miss G. The cancellation or cutting short a trip section of the policy says IPA
provides the following cover:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for your proportion only of
your irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre paid charges if
you have to cancel or cut short your trip
IPA has set out what it means by cut short as follows:
Either:
a) you cutting short the trip after you leave your home by direct early return to your home.
b) you attending a hospital after you leave your home as an in-patient or being confined to
your accommodation due to compulsory quarantine on the orders of a medical practitioner,
in either case for more than 24 hours.
Claims will be calculated on the number of nights of your trip you missed due to your early
return or the number of nights which you were hospitalised, quarantined or confined to your
accommodation.
The cancellation or cutting short your trip section also includes a list of things which IPA has
specifically excluded from cover. One of these is:
Any claim where you have been unable to evidence your loss, please refer to the claims
evidence section.
IPA doesnt appear to dispute that Mr C and Miss G had to cut short their planned trip due to
Mr Cs diagnosis with Covid-19 and consequent quarantine in a government hotel. It seems
to me then that IPA hasnt suggested that Mr C and Miss Gs claim wouldnt otherwise be
covered under the curtailment cover provided by the policy. Instead, it appears that the
reason IPA hasnt settled this claim is because it considers that Mr C and Miss G havent
provided enough evidence to prove their financial loss.
Ive thought very carefully about this. Having looked closely at the exclusions and
conditions section of the policy, I accept that the contract states that IPA may not pay a
claim if a policyholder doesnt provide all of the information it may reasonably require. And
given that Mr C and Miss G havent been able to provide a breakdown of each of the costs
for the component parts of their package holiday, I appreciate that strictly, they havent been
able to provide all of the information IPA has told them it requires.
However, I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their application
produces an unfair result. And thats the case here. Its clear that Mr C and Miss G have
made reasonable attempts to request the information IPA requires from J. But J has
confirmed, in writing, thats its unable to provide them with such a breakdown. What J has
confirmed is that the holiday was curtailed and the total price of the holiday - £834.
It seems to me that theres little more evidence that Mr C and Miss G will ever be able to
provide in support of what seems to be an otherwise valid claim. Theyre entirely reliant on J,
which has told them that it cant provide this information. I think this leaves them in an unfair
position and unable to recover a loss which, on the face of things, appears to form a valid
claim. So in my view, given Mr C and Miss G are claiming for eight lost days of their 10 day
trip, it seems that the fairest outcome here is for IPA to reassess their claim for 8/10ths of
their costs.
To be clear, Im not intending to direct IPA to pay any specific amount as part of this
decision. But I think IPA does have enough information readily available to allow it to accept
and reassess this claim and to consider which, if any, of Mr C and Miss Gs curtailment costs
are covered by the policy terms. So currently, I dont find that IPA has treated Mr C and MissG fairly. And I plan to conclude that IPA must reassess Mr C and Miss Gs curtailment claim
taking into account 8/10ths of their trip costs.
I asked both parties to send me any further information they wanted me to consider.
Both IPA and Mr C and Miss G accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
change them.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to accept and reassess Mr C and Miss Gs
claim - taking into account 8/10ths of their trip cost  in line with the policy terms and
conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman