DRN-1181502
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) cancelled his motor insurance 
policy without notifying him. He says that, as a result, another insurer cancelled a later 
policy, and refused to pay a claim, because he hadnt disclosed the earlier cancellation. 
What happened
In September 2016, Mr P took out a motor insurance policy with CIS to cover himself and a 
named driver (ND). Following information that came to light about ND shortly after the 
policy was issued, CIS decided that it wasnt willing to continue the policy with ND on it. 
On 9 September 2016, a letter was sent to Mr P giving him notice that the policy would be 
cancelled at midnight on 19 September 2016.
On 13 September 2016, Mr P phoned CISs representative about this. He was told ND had 
to be removed from cover for the policy to continue. The representative offered to find out 
why this was. Mr P said he was busy then but would ring back later.
Mr P didnt contact CIS or the representative again. So on 20 September 2016, CIS 
cancelled the policy and notified Mr P.
On 22 September 2016, Mr P phoned the representative again to question why the policy 
had been cancelled. He was told that as he hadnt called back following the previous phone 
conversation, the policy had been cancelled as he had previously been warned. He was 
advised of the refund of premium available to him.
In February 2019, Mr P complained to CIS that the cancelled policy was shown against his 
insurance record. CIS didnt accept his complaint. It said it had warned Mr P that it was 
proposing to cancel the policy, and what he had to do to avoid this. But he had failed to 
contact CIS or its representative. So the policy had been cancelled.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. The letters sent to 
Mr P on 9 September 2016 and 20 September 2016 were correctly addressed to Mr P. CISs 
records showed that Mr P received these, and spoke about them to CISs representative. He 
was told what he needed to do to avoid cancellation, but took no action.
The investigator said he couldnt fairly say Mr P hadnt been informed of the cancellation, 
and so couldnt ask CIS to do anything further. Mr P didnt accept the investigators 
recommendation, and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In the light of the information CIS found out about ND shortly after the policy was issued, it 
decided that it wasnt willing to provide insurance in respect of ND. It notified Mr P that it 
intended to cancel the policy. I consider it was entitled to do this in the circumstances.
From the records CIS has provided, as set out above, Im satisfied Mr P received this notice, 
and that he knew what was required to continue the policy. But he failed to take any action, 
and so CIS cancelled the policy. Im also satisfied Mr P was aware the policy had been 
cancelled. 
I conclude that CIS acted correctly in the way it cancelled Mr Ps policy, and in recording this 
cancellation against his insurance record, and I dont require it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against CIS General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman