DRN-3053351
The complaint
 Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) irresponsibly gave him a large 
overdraft limit. He says that Lloyds ought to have realised he was in significant debt and that 
he had a gambling problem, and that he would therefore struggle to repay the overdraft.
What happened
 Lloyds gave Mr M an overdraft of £5,000 in February 2016 after Mr M applied for it online.
In 2020, Mr M complained that Lloyds irresponsibly lent to him. Lloyds didnt think that it had 
done anything wrong and so didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about irresponsible lending, but 
it did pay him £150 compensation for some poor complaint handling. Mr M remained 
dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that the overdraft should not 
have been provided to Mr M given his circumstances at the time. Lloyds didnt respond, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Weve set 
out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Our website 
also sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Ive kept all this in mind when looking at Mr Ms complaint.
Lloyds has argued that when Mr M applied for his overdraft online it based its decision to 
lend to him on what hed said about his income and expenditure and on its automated credit 
scoring process. It says Mr M had declared an income of £8,000 per month and that he had 
only limited outgoings, and that its credit scoring process didnt flag any concerns so it was 
satisfied that Mr M would be able to comfortably support the overdraft limit. And, in these 
circumstances, it says it was reasonable to lend. Lloyds has also said that any gambling on 
Mr Ms account in the lead up to the overdraft increase was within reasonable limits.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Lloyds have said, but Im not satisfied that 
Lloyds affordability checks were proportionate in Mr Ms circumstances. Specifically Im 
concerned by the emerging pattern of Mr M using his overdraft to gamble in the months 
before the overdraft limit was agreed. A cursory look at Mr Ms statements show that he was 
gambling significant sums in the lead up to the overdraft application. I accept that he was 
also transferring large sums into his account  apparently from his business account  but I 
still think the way he was managing things should have given Lloyds cause for concern. For 
example, theres instances of Mr M paying in large sums from his business apparently to 
cover gambling transactions made on the same day, and there is clear evidence he was also 
using high cost lenders. I think its also worth noting that many years earlier  in 2006  Mr M 
had asked Lloyds for help with his account due to gambling problems he was having at that 
time. 
While each of these points alone may not have been a cause for concern, I think if Lloyds 
had thought about the situation as a whole, as it ought to have done given that it was 
agreeing to provide a limit of £5,000 here, it could have identified that there was a significant 
risk Mr M might have struggled to sustainably repay his overdraft without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. 
Bearing this in mind, I think Lloyds should not have provided Mr M with a £5,000 overdraft in 
February 2016, and I think its decision to do so meant that it increased Mr Ms indebtedness 
in a way that it ought to have realised was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
So I think Lloyds treated Mr M unfairly, and he has had to pay additional interest and 
charges on credit he shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So I think he lost 
out because of what Lloyds did wrong and that it needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what I think Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr M
 Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the overdraft limit was agreed in February 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ms credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it not agreed the 
overdraft limit in February 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman