DRN-4003174
The complaint
Miss B, through her representative, complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Loans 2 Go approved Miss B for a loan on 2 December 2019 for £700. The repayments of 
£159.99 a month (so just under £160) for 18 months were due to start on 1 January 2020 
and end 1 June 2021. The total to repay was £2,879.82. As of 5 August 2022 Miss B still 
owed Loans 2 Go just under £1,521. 
Almost immediately Miss B  in January 2020 - declared shed have to go into a repayment 
plan and has been paying relatively small amounts each month since then. 
Miss B complained to Loans 2 Go on 30 June 2022 and received its final response letter 
(FRL) on 19 July 2022. It gave reasons why it did not consider it had done anything wrong 
when it approved the loan. But it said that as it could see that Miss Bs finances were poor in 
2022  when she was complaining  and so Loans 2 Go offered to reduce the interest still 
due by 35%. That translated into a write-off of around £763 and left a smaller outstanding 
balance of around £795 to pay. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service by Miss Bs representative 
on 19 September 2022 and so it seems that offer was rejected. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint in November 2022 and thought that Loans 2 
Go was aware that Miss B was using a very high proportion of her income to repay all her 
credit commitments including its own loan and so he thought that Loans 2 Go ought not to 
have lent to Miss B in 2019.
Loans 2 Go responded to give reasons why it disagreed, all of which I have reviewed.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss B  would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Miss B wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Loans 2 Go did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss B 
and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Miss B. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the payments to 
the loan wouldnt cause Miss B undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint 
and I give my reason here. 
Loans 2 Go, as it has accepted in its FRL, knows that it lends to a sub-prime market and so 
it is aware of the potential concerns a customer may have when they apply to it for a loan. 
Here, Miss Bs loan was not big, but her application details were that she earned £2,900 
each month as take home pay and her outgoings were only £475 a month. Loans 2 Go 
carried out checks and has said that it increased her outgoings to £1,929 and reduced her 
income to around £2,380. My view is that alone ought to have alerted Loans 2 Go to there 
being an issue. Miss B had a great deal more debt and expenditure commitments (including 
credit commitments) than she had told it when she applied.
Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search and I have been sent a summary of the results of that 
search. Reviewing it I can see that Loans 2 Go knew she had almost £18,000 of debt, of 
which two were payday loans. Miss B had 17 active accounts and her credit card percentage 
usage had increased to 93%. Loans 2 Go had increased Miss Bs expenditure figure from the declared amount of £475. It 
said in its FRL: 
Following an extensive review of their application, in addition to their credit file, we 
calculated their total expenditure to be about £1,928.80
I accept some of the points made by Loans 2 Go in its defence of this complaint: that Miss B 
had no insolvency entries and she had no missed payments. But I consider that the 
information Loans 2 Go had, showed she was overindebted and this loan was the latest of 
several shed applied for and obtained in the months before she had approached 
Loans 2 Go.
To demonstrate, I list here the information I have gathered from the credit search that 
Loans 2 Go did in 2019:
oTwo payday loans costing £17 and £50 each month
oTwo credit cards: one of which had a £1,138 balance on a £1,175 limit and other had 
a £1,831 balance on a £2,150 limit. At, say 3% minimum repayment that would 
translate into around £89 each month for them both.
oShe had a bank loan  recently obtained in March 2019 costing £216 each month 
and a large balance on it
oShe had a finance house loan costing £217 a month which had commenced 
July 2019. 
oShe had a loan costing her £197 a month
oHer telecoms contract was for £21 a month
oMiss B had a hire purchase (HP) account with a balance at that time of £9,425 which 
had commenced in March 2016 costing £344 a month.
oThree option accounts which were costing her £38, £91 and £28 each weekly (not 
monthly according to the search results). That adds up to £157 each week, which 
equals £680 a month. But as I do not fully know what these option accounts were, 
I plan to use the figure of £157 for the month (not week) to demonstrate to Loans 2 
Go that she was overindebted using that lower figure.
All those added up to total credit commitments of £1,308. Using the income Loans 2 Go had 
identified as being the minimum amount she received each month (although Ive seen no 
details on the income figures) of £2,380 then that would mean Miss B was already 
committed to spend 55% of her net income before the Loans 2 Go loan. 
I consider that to have been too high. 
And this £1,308 figure would have excluded any rent or mortgage and household bills costs, 
transport, insurances, and other obvious outgoings. The percentage I have calculated was 
just for credit commitments. With the Loans 2 Go loan that increased to £1,468 which would 
have been 61%. 
And this was borne out by the fact that in January 2020 Miss B was telling Loans 2 Go she 
was going into a debt management plan from 8 January 2020 which was just one week after 
her first instalment date had been due. 
My view is that Miss B was not able to afford this loan and repay the instalments sustainably 
for 18 months. And Loans 2 Go had obtained its own information and had done enough to 
recognise that fact. Despite this, it lent to her.
I uphold Miss Bs complaint.Putting things right
Loans 2 Go needs to put things right for Miss B as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
Treat any payments made by Miss B as payments towards the capital amount of 
£700,
If Miss B has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded 
to her with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss B or allow the existing one to continue.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Bs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and I direct that Loans 2 Go Limited 
does as I have said in the putting things right part of the decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman