DRN-2580831
Complaint
Miss H says that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) incorrectly and unfairly added charges 
to her overdraft.
Background
Miss H complained about having been incorrectly charged on a loan; about issues accessing 
emergency cash in February 2019 and finally Barclays having mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).  But those matters have been addressed separately and this 
complaint is only looking at Miss Hs overdraft.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Hs concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether 
amounts Barclays charged Miss H were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison 
to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a 
commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclayss charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Miss H if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Miss H was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Barclays didnt treat Miss H fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Barclays continued 
charging Miss H even though it knew she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have 
realised this. Having thought about everything, I dont think that Barclays treated Miss H 
unfairly or unreasonably here though. 
Ive looked through Miss Hs statements throughout the period concerned. Miss H did start 
use her overdraft more regularly in 2018 and she may argue that this was in itself an 
indication that she might have been struggling. But the account still received funds 
throughout 2018 which, in my view, meant that it wasnt unreasonable for Barclays to 
conclude there was a reasonable prospect of the overdraft sustainably being repaid. 
And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss H expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions being made from the account. So I cant reasonably say that it 
was the overdraft charges that were responsible for Miss Hs overdraft balance at this time. 
It's clear that the position of Miss Hs account deteriorated in 2019. And I dont think it would 
have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for Barclays to have ignored the fact that the 
overdraft had become, or that it was becoming demonstrably unsustainable for Miss H, 
indefinitely. 
From what Ive seen, it appears as though Barclays began the process of taking corrective 
action in relation to Miss Hs overdraft, in the summer of 2019 and it withdrew the facility in 
July 2019 to prevent further charges being added. So Im satisfied that Barclays acted within 
a reasonable period of the overdraft having appeared unsustainable and therefore it didnt 
continue applying charges unfairly. 
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss H. But I hope that shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman