DRN-4022839
The complaint
Mr O complains that the loan he had from Nationwide Building Society was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr O borrowed £10,000 from Nationwide in September 2021. The loan was due to be repaid 
in 60 monthly instalments of £202.32.
Mr O says the loan was unaffordable as he had existing debts and a gambling addiction. He 
said if Nationwide had carried out better checks it would have seen he couldnt afford the 
loan. Mr O says he lost the loan money to gambling and is suffering mentally and physically.
Nationwide says it carried out all the required checks and it was satisfied Mr Os declared 
income was accurate and the loan was affordable. It adds that a credit search showed no 
adverse information.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He was not satisfied that 
Nationwides checks had gone far enough and found that proportionate checks would have 
indicated the lending was unsustainable.
Nationwide responded to say, in summary:
Mr O declared he had no monthly loan repayments, but it included the credit 
commitments it found as a result of its checks - it added that a manual credit search 
was likely to have provided the same information;
It had verified Mr Os declared income with a high level of confidence;
It was unreasonable to include credit card limits as a source of future debt as this 
may then exclude all other lenders from being able to offer a loan.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr O and to Nationwide on 8 February 2023. Although I 
reached the same outcome as the investigator, I did so for substantively different reasons.
Ive summarised my findings below:
I didnt consider Nationwides checks went far enough because:
oThe loan was for 60 months, and Nationwide needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
oMr O would be committing one third of his income to credit repayments - this 
was a significant proportion of his income and indicated he may struggle to 
manage his money;
oNationwides initial calculations showed Mr O would have had only around 
£180 of disposable income each month so it needed to be confident the 
expenditure figures were accurate;
I found proportionate checks were likely to have shown:
oMr Os rent was just over £450;
oHe had further regular direct debits totalling £90 for items including his phone 
and gym membership;
oHis repayments to loans were in line with what was on Nationwides credit 
check;
oTransfers to another account each month were to pay for utilities, food and 
travel totalling about £550;
These figures indicated that Mr O did not have enough disposable income each 
month to sustainably make the loan repayments;
I acknowledged that Mr O said he had a gambling addiction at the time, and I could 
see significant expenditure on some of his bank statements, but as Nationwide may 
not have used bank statements to obtain the information it needed for a proportionate 
check I could not assume it would have been aware of this;
I accepted what Nationwide said about it being unreasonable to include credit card 
limits as a source of future debt and, based upon Mr Os historic usage of this source 
of credit, I agreed that a larger exposure was not reasonably foreseeable;
Nevertheless, I didnt consider Nationwides checks went far enough and I was 
satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown that it was 
unlikely Mr O could sustainably make the loan repayments for five years.
In summary, I found it was irresponsible to lend to Mr O and Nationwide did not make a fair
lending decision based on affordability, although I didnt find it acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in any other way.
Mr O responded to say that he had nothing further to add.
Nationwide responded to accept the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional information, and Nationwide accepted my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr O received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr O made should be deducted from this amount.If this results in Mr O having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Nationwide should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr O;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Os credit file regarding the loan, 
once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to deduct tax from this interest. Nationwide 
should give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman