DRN-3228267
The complaint
Mr C complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his credit card account application.
What happened
Mr C says he was advised by HSBC that he could close his existing credit card account and 
apply for an upgraded credit card account. He says HSBC ran two credit searches as its 
systems failed during the application and then rejected his application. Mr C says he was 
given conflicting information by HSBC about why it made the decision and as a result was 
without a credit card account for some time. In summary Mr C says the compensation 
offered by HSBC of £75 is not enough and would like his reinstated account to have the 
same benefits as the account he applied for.
HSBC accepts it made mistakes and has apologised. It says it has re-instated Mr Cs 
account and will remove the search from his credit file. HSBC has paid £75 compensation 
and says Mr C can apply for the upgraded account in the future but with no guarantee of 
approval.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
accepted HSBC had made mistakes but had put Mr C back in the position he was in. The 
investigator recommended HSBC pay a further £75 compensation but thought it up to HSBC 
to decide if it offered a different type of account.
HSBC agrees with that view, but Mr C does not. Mr C says in summary HSBC staff dont 
know its own policies and says the staff members involved ought to be spoken to and re-
trained. He would like to know what guarantees there are that HSBC has considered what 
took place and says the compensation will have little effect on HSBC. Mr C says if he were 
applying for a mortgage then the consequences could have been more significant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC ought to pay a further £75 
compensation. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how 
strongly he feels about what took place. 
It may be helpful if I explain to Mr C that we are not HSBCs regulator. So, we cant fine or 
punish a business and its not our role to direct it as Mr C suggests to retrain or speak to its 
staff members. I also make clear that we cant interfere in how a business operates and so 
we cant direct HSBC to offer Mr C the credit card account he would like or direct it to apply 
those account benefits to his existing account. I find such matters would be for HSBC to 
decide upon when exercising its commercial judgement. I can only consider what did take 
place and not the hypothetical scenario Mr C raises.
There is no question here that Mr C was given misleading and incorrect information. I have 
no doubt Mr C was caused distress and inconvenience in trying to find out what took place 
and in applying to re-instate his account. I also accept that Mr C would have spent time 
checking his credit file and was caused frustration when even HSBCs complaint response 
letters were conflicting. 
Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for what took place and can see that it has put 
Mr C back in the position he was in before the credit card account application. The key issue 
for me to decide is the level of compensation. I dont think Mr C suffered any direct financial 
loss but have made clear that he clearly spent some time trying to sort matters out. Overall, 
Im satisfied that HSBC should pay £150 compensation which I think is fair and reasonable 
and in line with the type of awards we make in these circumstances. I appreciate that Mr C 
may not wish to accept my decision and of course that is a matter for him, but I think this 
now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do. And I 
hope at least Mr C now appreciates what our role is and which parts of his complaint we can 
consider.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay a further £75 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
Mr C £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman