DRN-3062536
The complaint
Mr T complains that First Complete Ltd didnt update him about a change to the insurance 
policy it arranged for him.
What happened
Mr T had a commercial property insurance policy for a property he owns and rents out. He 
arranged the policy through First Complete  a broker. The policy was underwritten by an 
insurer that I will refer to as G.
At the end of 2020 Mr T advised First Complete that he was having problems with his 
tenants as they had missed rent payments. In January 2021 he served his tenants with an 
eviction order. He told First Complete and they informed G. G subsequently said that it was 
removing cover for accidental damage and malicious damage from the policy due to the 
eviction order. 
First Complete informed Mr T of this and he made a complaint to G. He said it wasnt fair for 
G to remove the cover mid-term. 
Following the complaint in March 2021 G reversed its decision to remove the cover. 
Mr T brought his complaint about G to this service. And in investigating the matter, found 
that First Complete had known about the reversal of Gs decision to remove elements of 
cover in March 2021. However he had only found out about this two months later when G 
responded to his complaint in May 2021.
He subsequently made a complaint about First Complete, as he said it should have informed 
him of the reversed decision when it had found out. And because it hadnt, he had 
experienced a further two months of worry.
First Complete didnt uphold the complaint and said it considered it to be vexatious, as the 
issue was with G and not with it. Our investigator considered this but thought Mr T had a 
legitimate complaint against First Complete, as well as G. He recommended it was upheld. 
He said that hed seen First Complete had been told that full cover had been restored in 
March. And that Mr T had asked them for an update on the position. But First Complete 
hadnt passed the information on. He thought this had caused Mr T additional distress and 
inconvenience that could have been avoided, so recommended it pay him £100 to make up 
for this.
Mr T accepted our investigators view, however First Complete didnt. It said it wasnt its role 
to update Mr T about the outcome of a complaint against G, so it didnt see that it had done 
anything wrong. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note First Completes initial objection to this service reviewing this complaint. Its said that 
the complaint should be against G, as it was its responsibility to let Mr T know the outcome 
of his complaint and not its own. While G is responsible for the decisions it makes in regards 
to policy cover, this service has resolved a complaint against G about this matter. And I 
agree with our investigator that Mr T has a legitimate separate complaint about First 
Complete and its role in handling the administration of the policy. So I dont agree that this 
complaint should be dismissed as vexatious. So Ive gone on to consider the merits. 
When considering a complaint I need to decide if the business in question did something 
wrong. And if I find it did, decide what it should do to put things right. 
Here First Complete is a broker, so it isnt responsible for decisions about policy cover. 
However its role is to arrange and administer the policy. And this will include arranging 
setting up the policy and communicating changes with its customer throughout the policy 
term. 
Here, I can see it did this effectively at the end of 2020 and in January 2021. Mr T informed it 
of the problems he was having with his tenants and this information was passed to G. When 
G informed it that cover would be reduced this was passed back to Mr T and resulted in a 
complaint.
However in March 2021 G informed First Complete that it had reversed its decision and had 
added cover for accidental damage and malicious damage back on to Mr Ts policy. And I 
think as part of First Completes role as Mr Ts broker, it ought to have passed the 
information on. This is because it represents a change to the cover Mr T had as part of his 
policy so it would be reasonable to let him know.
First Complete has said it isnt its role to communicate the outcome of a complaint against G 
to its policyholder. And while I agree, it is its role to ensue its customer has the correct 
information about the policy. In this case it was aware Mr T thought he no longer had full 
cover provided by the policy. And it would have been reasonable for it to pass on to him that 
this decision had been reversed so he was aware of the cover he had in place.
Further Mr T called First Complete shortly after G had informed it of the reversal of its 
decision.  And in this call he asked if there was an update on the cover provided by G. So it 
would have been clear to First Complete that he hadnt been made aware of the reversed 
decision. This question wasnt addressed at the time or after the call, even though G 
subsequently re-confirmed the reversal of its decision to First Complete. 
So considering everything, I think First Complete hasnt treated Mr T fairly and has got 
something wrong. It ought to have passed the information on about the change to the 
insurance cover when it became aware of this.
I therefore need to decide what it should do to put things right. To do this Ive considered the 
impact of the error. Mr T was left thinking he no longer had cover for accidental damage or 
malicious damage for his property. And as he was going through the eviction of a tenant, this 
would have been important elements of the policy that would have offered reassurance 
during a stressful process. Had he known this cover was in place from March then it would 
have alleviated some of the distress he experienced. I therefore agree with our investigators 
opinion that First Complete should pay Mr T £100 compensation to make up for this. 
My final decisionI uphold Mr Ts complaint and require First Complete Ltd to pay him £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman