DRN-3427053
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a Privilege Account (PA) by The Co-operative Bank Plc 
(Co-op) in July 2001.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that he was told the PA would provide him income protection in the event he 
couldnt work. He says he was advised to take out the PA and he didnt feel he had any 
choice. Mr S says the PA has never been suitable for him and he wants the account fees 
returned.
Co-op says that the PA didnt include income protection as a benefit, and it didnt tell him 
that it did so. Co-op says it didnt recommend the PA to him or advise him to take it out. It 
says it gave him information about the PA and he chose to take it out.
Both parties agree that there was a conversation in a branch during which the PA was sold. I 
wasnt in the meeting which was 20 years ago, so I cant know what was said or just accept 
what either party says took place.
I can only look at the evidence available today including the testimony of both parties to 
make my decision.
While I dont doubt Mr Ss honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that his 
memory of the sale may be mistaken. I say this for the following reasons.
Before the sale of the PA, both parties agree that Mr S had a fee free account. So, Mr S 
knew these were available.
Co-op has provided documentary evidence from its records which Ive reviewed that shows 
income protection was not a benefit of the PA. So, I think its more likely than not it wasnt.
Mr S has described how he had a good relationship with the branch representative who sold 
him the PA, and he can remember her name after all the years that have passed.
As Ive accepted that income protection was not a part of the PA, this would imply that the 
Co-op representative was either incompetent or deliberately mis-representing the PA.
As the representative was experienced, and income protection is a distinctive product, which 
I have not seen included as a benefit in a packaged bank account, I think its more likely than 
not the Co-op representative would not have told him by mistake that it was a benefit of the 
PA.
And as Mr S had a good relationship with the representative over several years, and Mr S 
was likely to find out quickly from the information given to him that income protection was not 
in the PA product, I think its more likely not that the representative would not have 
deliberately misled him about this.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr S knew he had a choice whether to take out the 
PA and he chose to do so based on the information Co-op gave him.
Ive not seen any evidence such a record of a discussion about Mr Ss circumstances at the 
time to suggest that advice was given, or a recommendation made. And this service is aware 
that Co-ops practice at the time was to do non-advised sales only.
I can understand from what Mr S has said that Co-ops representative may have talked 
positively about the PA, but this is not the same as making a recommendation based on Mr 
Ss situation.
So, I think its more likely than not that that this was a non-advised sale, and so Co-op was 
only required to provide Mr S with enough information to make an informed decision whether 
to buy the PA, and it wasnt required to ensure it was suitable for him.
At the time the PA cost £6 a month and offered Worldwide family travel insurance; a charge 
free overdraft, with no interest on the first £100; commission free travel money; and 
discounts on media, holidays, electrical goods, sports equipment, magazines, theatre tickets 
and wine.
Mr S says he occasionally travelled, and he used his overdraft, and I can see nothing about 
his circumstances that would have prevented him from using the other benefits. So, I can 
see why the PA may have been of interest to him. 
I think its more likely than not that Co-ops representative would have told about some of the 
benefits in their discussion and that he received documentation about the PA after the sale 
that provided him full information. 
I say this because Mr S says that he saw the fees on his monthly statement, and I think its 
more likely than that he would have complained if he hadnt wanted to pay for the PA and 
didnt know or understand what it was. But he didnt and kept it for many years while 
receiving copious written updates about the changing cost and benefits.
So, while I know that Mr S will be disappointed, I think its more likely that not that Co-op 
didnt do anything wrong in this sale. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman