DRN-3057475
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Everyday Lending Limited granted her a loan that was unaffordable for 
her.
What happened
In late 2018, Mrs D took out a loan for £1,000 with Everyday Lending. The loan was to be 
repaid over 24 months with the repayments set at £123.84 a month. The APR was 249.5% 
and total amount to be repaid was £2,972.16. 
Mrs D later complained that Everyday Lending lent to her irresponsibly because the loan 
was unaffordable for her. Everyday Lending said it had completed affordability checks which 
it believed were reasonable and proportionate. These showed the loan was sustainable as   
Mrs D had disposable income.
 
Mrs D remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. She said Everyday 
Lending hadnt made her aware of the very high interest rate when she took out the loan. It 
also hadnt looked into the gambling problem shed had at the time. She raised concerns 
about the way Everyday Lending had treated her after shed made it aware that she was 
struggling to make her repayments. She also commented that it hadnt looked into the 
criteria for guarantors on her account as if it had, it would have found that a relative was on 
state benefits and disabled.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ds complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
thought the checks Everyday Lending had carried out were proportionate and it looked like 
the loan repayments were affordable. She said there was nothing in the information that 
suggested Mrs D had a gambling problem. She also thought Everyday Lending had treated 
Mrs D fairly when she had fallen into arrears. She also explained that there wasnt a 
guarantor on the loan. The relative Mrs D had referred to was listed as a contact.
Mrs D disagreed with our investigators view. She said her bank statements clearly showed 
lots of small payments which were for raffles (i.e. gambling). She had a County Court 
Judgment (CCJ) which should have prevented her from getting the loan. She said she never 
had any disposable income and also paid for childcare for two kids. So, her complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Everyday Lending to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure Mrs D could afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. 
 
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to think 
only about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mrs D undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for her.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Everyday Lending gathered information from Mrs D before the loan was agreed. It asked for 
information about her employment and housing costs. It verified Mrs Ds income from bank 
statements. It also checked her credit file.
Everyday Lending calculated Mrs Ds total income (from her salary, working tax credits and 
maintenance payments to be to be £2,265.48 a month. Its noted that Mrs D said her rent 
was £200 a month but it could see a transaction of £350 to her landlord, so it used the higher 
figure in its affordability calculation.
Everyday Lending worked out that Mrs D had commitments totalling £783.89, which included 
repayments to creditors, childcare costs and payments towards her CCJ. It says it used 
statistical data to estimate Mrs Ds living expenses, which took into account her income, 
region, household composition (number of adults and children) and residential status. 
The affordability calculation Everyday Lending carried out gave Mrs D a monthly disposable 
income of £293.75 after taking into account her monthly repayments for the new loan. 
Mrs D says Everyday Lending shouldnt have granted her the loan because she had a CCJ. I 
can see evidence of this on the information Everyday Lending gathered from her credit file. 
But the credit file also shows that Mrs D was up to date with her existing credit commitments 
and there were no recent defaults. It was up to Everyday Lending to decide the risks it was 
willing to take when extending the loan, as long as it took adequate steps to ensure the 
lending was affordable for Mrs D. 
Mrs D says she had a gambling problem when she took out the loan. She feels Everyday 
Lending should have been aware of it at the time. I can see there are a number of small 
transactions to various people on the bank statement Everyday Lending reviewed. But I can 
also see that Everyday Lending has noted Mrs D said they were payments to friends. I 
appreciate Mrs Ds point about gamblers not admitting to gambling. But I cant say Everyday 
Lending should reasonably have been aware that Mrs D was had a gambling problem from 
the information it saw.
Having considered everything, I think Everyday Lendings checks were reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances. And they showed the loan was affordable.
Mrs D has also complained about the way Everyday Lending treated her when she fell 
behind on her loan repayments. Everyday Lendings notes show that it attempted to contact 
Mrs D several times to discuss the arrears on the account, leaving voicemails and text 
messages. Its noted that Everyday Lending asked Mrs D to come in to complete an income 
and expenditure form so a payment plan could be arranged. I can see an arrangement was 
made for the arrears. Later on, Everyday Lending was unable to get hold of Mrs D once 
again. But it sent her correspondence saying it was willing to work with her but needed to 
speak to her first. From what Ive seen and been told, the account subsequently went into 
default and the debt was sold after no further contact from Mrs D. 
While I dont doubt that Mrs D was having difficulty repaying the loan, I cant say that 
Everyday Lending acted unfairly because it did attempt to contact her to discuss repayment 
options.Mrs D has also complained that Everyday Lending didnt make her aware of the high interest 
on the loan.  I appreciate the amount Mrs D was asked to pay back is significantly higher 
than what she borrowed. But the credit agreement makes no attempt to disguise how costly 
the loan is. It clearly sets out the terms of the loan, including the total amount to be repaid. 
As Mrs D accepted these terms and the payments appeared to be affordable, based on the 
information it had at the time, I cant say Everyday Lending acted unfairly when it provided 
the loan.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs D. But I hope shell understand the reasons 
for my decision and shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman