DRN-3895586
The complaint
Mr S says NewDay Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two credit card accounts NewDay Ltd provided. The Marbles account 
was opened in July 2018. Mr S was given an initial credit limit of £1,200. This limit was 
increased four times until it eventually reached £6,700 in October 2021. The AO account 
was opened in January 2022 with a credit limit of £11,400. This account had no credit limit 
increases. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought that NewDay Ltd ought to 
have realised Mr S simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by the 
time it offered the increase to her credit limit of £4,450 to £5,450 in April 2021. NewDay Ltd 
did not respond to the assessment, so the complaint has passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
NewDay Ltd needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay Ltd should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of the increases of credit, and 
they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I dont 
intend to cover them off here.
Our adjudicator thought that the early increases to the credit limit on the Marbles account 
were not examples of irresponsible lending. Both parties have seen that assessment and Mr 
S has not raised any objection to those findings. I have reviewed the case in its entirety and 
have reached the same outcome as the adjudicator and for the same reasons. I havent 
seen anything to make me think NewDay Ltd should have been concerned about Mr Ss 
ability to afford the limits given before the increase in April 2021. In short, I say that because 
Mr S declared a steady income and his other borrowings were modest. And Mr Ss credit file 
was largely clean in the recent times before the lending decisions. So, in the absence of any 
argument about that I will turn to the increase of April 2021. 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought NewDay Ltd shouldnt have provided 
Mr S with any further credit from April 2021 onwards. Mr S had more than doubled his other 
credit commitments in the two years since his last credit increase in 2019. He had taken out 
two loans with a monthly repayment of £267 per month. And his total credit card debt had 
increased by over 20%. Mr Ss income was modest in comparison to the borrowings at this 
stage and the cost of making sustainable monthly repayments towards these debts took up a 
significant proportion of his income. And that situation would have been even worse had Mr 
S spent up to the credit limits he already had.  
So, considering all the submissions made in this case, NewDay Ltd, in increasing Mr Ss 
credit limit, added to his indebtedness in a way that was not responsible. And I think I think 
NewDay Ltd should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful such that they shouldnt have increased Mr Ss credit limit. I say that 
because I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to the credit limits 
could have led to Mr Ss indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that he had no funds 
available to meet his regular outgoings. 
It follows that I think that Mr S lost out because NewDay Ltd provided him with further credit 
from 29 April 2021 onwards. In my view, NewDay Ltds actions unfairly prolonged Mr Ss 
indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting him into further debt. 
It follows that NewDay Ltd should put things right.
Putting things right
NewDay Ltd should:
Rework Mr Ss accounts to ensure that from 29 April 2021 onwards interest is only 
charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £4,450 (being the credit limit in 
place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should 
have been provided. NewDay Ltd should not have provided the credit on the AO card 
at all. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the accounts once these adjustments have 
been made NewDay Ltd should contact Mr S to arrange an affordable repayment plan for these accounts. Once Mr S has repaid the outstanding balance, it should 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file from 21 April 2021 
onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. NewDay Ltd 
should also remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file from 21 April 2021 
onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
Ltd must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. NewDay Ltd should put 
things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman