DRN-2704534
The complaint
Mr B complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited (KMC) agreed a payment 
holiday on a mortgage he is named on, without discussing this with him.
What happened
Mr B told our service that he has been estranged for some years from his ex-wife, but he is 
still jointly liable for the mortgage held with KMC on their former home. Mr B found out that 
his ex-wife had asked for a payment holiday on this mortgage early in 2020. The request 
was granted by KMC, initially for a shorter period, then later extended to six months. 
Mr B said hed never agreed to this, and it was increasing his debts. So when the first 
payment holiday was granted he asked KMC to cancel it, but it wouldnt. Mr B also asked for  
any future payment holidays not to be approved for the same reason. But he says KMC 
wont agree. He thinks he should have more control over the mortgage, and KMC shouldnt 
be allowed to take steps like this without his agreement. 
KMC said that Mr B had told it he wasnt paying towards the mortgage at the moment. It said 
it believed it was in the best interests of both the parties to the mortgage to allow a payment 
holiday. KMC said it had explained to Mr B that he could make the monthly payment instead, 
if he wanted to, or he could pay something to reduce the debt. It also explained that if no 
payment holiday had been granted, but Mr Bs ex-wife missed payments, then both his credit 
file and her file would be badly affected. 
KMC said that under the terms of the agreement it had reached with Mr B and his ex-wife 
when they first took out the mortgage, it can accept an instruction from either named 
borrower on the mortgage. And it said it had an obligation to take the best interests of all 
customers into consideration. It thought that it had done that here. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance covering the pandemic explained that lenders should 
grant a payment holiday in circumstances where the pandemic has affected borrowers. 
Our investigator said the guidance required lenders to apply payment holidays quickly with 
minimal formality. And if the payment holiday hadnt been approved and the mortgage 
account had fallen into arrears, then arrears wouldve been recorded on Mr Bs credit file too. 
KMC had said he could always pay towards the mortgage if he wanted to further minimise 
the effect of the payment holiday. Our investigator didnt think KMC had to do any more.
Mr B didnt agree. He wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so his case was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator.
When I look at a complaint, my duty is to decide the outcome on the basis of whats fair and 
reasonable. So I have to look at all the circumstances of the case. 
In this instance, I have considered that Mr B is still named on this mortgage, and any 
changes to it do affect his financial position. But Ive also got to bear in mind that he isnt 
paying the mortgage at the moment, and I understand he isnt in a position to take over 
payments. Ive also got to take account of the guidance issued by the FCA to deal with the 
unprecedented circumstances of the pandemic, which affected a lot of peoples finances. 
And Ive got to think about what the alternatives might have been, in this case. 
Mr Bs ex-wife asked for a payment holiday early in 2020, and that was granted, then 
extended. The guidance issued by the FCA which applied at the time, did contain a 
requirement that a payment holiday would be offered by a mortgage company, if someone 
said they were in financial difficulties or that their income had reduced due to circumstances 
resulting from the pandemic. And this guidance said lenders should offer a payment holiday 
unless doing so clearly wasnt in the borrowers interest. 
KMC had to follow this guidance. And I think it has done so.
A payment holiday given under this guidance wont show as mortgage arrears on the 
mortgage holders credit file. So there are no arrears on Mr Bs credit file as a result of this 
arrangement. 
Mr B said that this still affected him, because his overall debt would be larger as a result of 
these payments not being made. But he hasnt told us about any wider impact this had on 
him  such as being turned down for other lending. I dont think that I can assume that this 
payment holiday has had such an impact on Mr B. 
And I also have to think about what the alternative was. As Ive noted, lots of people faced a 
reduction in their income at this time. If Mr Bs ex-wife wasnt able to make the mortgage 
payments during this time, then the alternative was for the mortgage to fall into arrears. That 
would have been noted on Mr Bs credit file too, and would have a much greater impact on 
him. So I think that KMC was right to say that Mr B is better off because it granted a payment 
holiday, than he wouldve been otherwise. 
I understand that Mr B may have wider concerns about the control hes able to exert over 
this mortgage, but our service isnt able to help him with that. So, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, Im sorry to have to tell Mr B that I dont think his complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman