DRN-2838687
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) recorded a default on her 
accounts.
What happened
Mrs J had two loan accounts with NatWest. In May 2019, Mrs J contacted NatWest and 
advised that she would be unable to make repayments towards the loans until October 2019 
due to medial reasons. In response, NatWest agreed to freeze the interest on the loans until 
September 2019 and the direct debits set up to pay the loan instalments were cancelled.
In September 2020, Mrs J called NatWest for advice on what repayment options would be 
available to her on the loans moving forwards. However, at that time Mrs J didnt know what 
level of income she would be receiving which meant that an income and expenditure 
assessment couldnt be completed. In November 2020, Mrs J called NatWest again with the 
information needed to complete an income and expenditure assessment and Mrs J agreed 
to repay the outstanding balances, including accrued arrears, over a period of 18 months.
In March 2020, Mrs J contacted NatWest and advised that shed soon be going on maternity 
leave and would only be receiving half pay. In April 2020 Mrs J spoke with NatWest again 
and provided the information needed for a new income and expenditure assessment to be 
completed. As a result of this it was agreed that Mrs J could make payments towards 
clearing the arrears on the accounts only, and that interest would be frozen on both accounts 
until August 2020.
In late July 2020, NatWest contacted Mrs J who explained that she still wasnt in a position 
to continue making full repayments against the loans. NatWest explained to Mrs J that she 
could continue to make token payments towards the loan at that time. NatWest also advised 
Mrs J that her accounts wouldnt be defaulted at that time.
However, a few weeks later, in August 2020, Mrs J received an email from NatWest which 
explained that her accounts were being transferred to their recoveries department and that 
the accounts could be defaulted if Mrs J was unable to clear the arrears on the accounts and 
resume the contractual payments. Mrs J wasnt able to make the necessary payments and 
the loan accounts were both ultimately defaulted by NatWest. Mrs J wasnt happy about this, 
so she made a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mrs Js complaint. They accepted that they had provided Mrs J with 
incorrect information in July 2020 that her accounts werent at risk of being defaulted, and 
they made a payment to Mrs J of £100 to compensate her for this. However, NatWest also 
said that they felt that the default process had been undertaken correctly and confirmed that 
they werent willing to remove the defaults from Mrs Js credit file as she wanted.
Mrs J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer is experiencing financial difficulties such that they are unable to meet the 
contractual repayments of an arranged loan, what this service would expect would be that 
the business would respond positively and sympathetically to that customer to help them 
negotiate the period of financial difficulty that theyve encountered.
I think that NatWest have done that here. They assessed Mrs Js income and expenditure on 
several occasions and agreed temporary payment plans with Mrs J as a result of this. 
NatWest also froze the interest on Mrs Js loans accounts when it was appropriate to do so.
However, when a customer is experiencing financial difficulty, it isnt the case that a 
business is obliged to maintain that customers accounts on a reduced payment plan or 
freeze interest indefinitely, and it can be the case that the business can choose to refer the 
customers accounts to their recoveries department and begin proceedings to default the 
accounts. And thats what NatWest elected to do in this instance.
Indeed, in circumstances where a customer cant meet their contractual repayments over a 
long period of time, such as has been the case here, defaulting an account can be a fair 
outcome because it means that interest will no longer continue to accrue against the account 
balance which in turn means that the customer doesnt continue to fall deeper into debt.
So, while I can understand that Mrs J would have been dismayed to learn that her accounts 
were at the risk of being defaulted, given that she was advised by NatWest previously that 
this wasnt the case, I dont feel that NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably in how they 
subsequently informed Mrs J that her accounts might be defaulted if she was unable to 
make the necessary payments to avoid this  which unfortunately Mrs J was unbale to do.
It follows from this that I dont feel that it would be fair or reasonable for me to instruct 
NatWest to remove the defaults from Mrs Js credit file, as she would like here. And this is 
because, ultimately, the defaults present a true and accurate record of Mrs J being unable to 
meet the contractual payment requirements of the accounts.
However, its clear that Mrs J was given incorrect information by NatWest, and that she has 
incurred some upset and inconvenience as a result of this. Because of this, what this service 
would expect here would be that the NatWest would acknowledge the error that it made and 
make a payment to Mrs J to compensate her for the trouble and distress shes incurred. 
Im satisfied that NatWest have done that already here. They upheld Mrs Js complaint on 
the basis of the incorrect information given to her, and they made a payment of £100 to Mrs 
J as compensation for what happened. Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an 
offer thats considered fair and reasonable by one party not being considered as such by 
another. But the £100 that NatWest have already paid here does feel fair to me, and I must 
note that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs J was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking NatWest to take any further action at this time. 
I hope that Mrs J can understand, given everything Ive explained above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman