DRN-3637493
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the fees he was charged by ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE 
SERVICES LIMITED trading as Be Wiser Insurance Services when he cancelled a motor 
insurance policy it arranged for him. 
What happened
Mr C bought a motor insurance policy online through a comparison website. Before the 
cooling off period ended, Mr C decided the policy wasnt right for him and so he cancelled it. 
Be Wiser charged Mr C a non-refundable set up fee and a cancellation fee. It also charged 
Mr C for the days he was insured. 
Mr C complained to Be Wiser about the charges as he didnt think he should have to pay any 
fees for cancelling within the cooling off period. Be Wiser didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It 
said it had acted correctly and in line with its Terms and Conditions (T&C) which Mr C 
agreed to before he bought the policy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought Be Wiser 
had made Mr C aware of its charges before he bought the policy - and hed agreed to the 
terms before proceeding. So in line with guidance for insurers provided by its regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the Investigator thought Mr C had been fairly charged the 
fees when he cancelled the policy. 
Mr C doesnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. He says it isnt fair that he has 
been charged fees within the cooling off period. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 7.2.2 set by the 
regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. In summary this says that where a customer 
cancels a policy such as Mr Cs within the cooling off period, a business is entitled to charge 
the following:
A pro-rata (i.e. proportionate) premium for the time the policy was in force; 
plus an administration fee which is proportionate to the service provided, with no element of 
profit. 
However, a business cannot make a charge unless these charges were made clear to the 
customer before they bought the policy. 
In this case, Be Wiser has provided screenshots of Mr Cs online journey before he bought 
the policy. This shows that before Mr C bought the policy he agreed that hed read and 
agreed to Be Wisers T&C. 
Under their T&C, Be Wiser set out what it would charge if Mr C cancelled the policy within 
the cooling off period. Be Wiser explained that as the policy was a telematics policy, the set 
up fees were more at £125 and this is non-refundable. 
Mr C agreed to the following declaration before he bought the policy, where Be Wiser says:
By proceeding you agree:
That you will have a device fitted to your car
That you have read and understood our Be Wiser terms and conditions
That you have read and understood our Be Wiser Telematics Supplementary 
Terms and Conditions 
Under the Supplementary T&C, Be Wiser set out what it would charge on cancellation within 
the cooling off period. It has confirmed that it has made no profit in the setting up and 
cancelling of Mr Cs policy. 
The ICOBS 7.2.2 says;
Payment for the service provided before cancellation
(1) When a consumer exercises the right to cancel he may only be required to pay, 
without any undue delay, for the service actually provided by the firm in accordance 
with the contract.
(2) The amount payable must not:
(a) exceed an amount which is in proportion to the extent of the service already 
provided in comparison with the full coverage of the contract; and
(b) in any case be such that it could be construed as a penalty.
(3) A firm must not require a consumer to pay any amount:
(a) unless it can prove that the consumer was duly informed about the amount 
payable; or
(b) if it commenced the performance of the contract before the expiry of the 
cancellation period without the consumer's prior request.
So from what Ive seen, I think Mr C hasnt been treated unfairly by Be Wiser. I think it was 
clear about what it would charge on cancellation before and after the cooling off period. And 
I think it gave Mr C the opportunity to change his mind before buying the policy if he was 
unhappy with the fees set out by Be Wiser. I think Be Wiser acted in line with the terms of 
the policy when it carried out the cancellation of Mr Cs policy. 
I understand Mr C will be very disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not asking 
Be Wiser to change anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman