DRN-1022533
 complaint
Mrs B says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs B took out with a charge card in 1990. Its been 
agreed that Allianz should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, Ill refer to 
Allianz in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Allianz had to make it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs B says she never asked for the PPI and assumed it was mandatory.
Mrs B says the PPI was sold over the phone. But Allianz has sent us a copy of Mrs Bs 
application form for the charge card, which suggests it was sold either by post or in store. 
The form included a section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if Mrs B wanted to take it out. 
And the box has been ticked.
Theres nothing on the form which suggests the PPI is mandatory and, if Mrs B didnt want 
the PPI, I think she couldve left the section blank. So I think Allianz did make it clear to 
Mrs B that she had a choice about the PPI. And that Mrs B chose to take it.
I havent seen clear evidence that Allianz gave Mrs B any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. This means it didnt have to check if the 
PPI was right for Mrs B. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like 
Mrs B was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve 
paid out for significantly longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And 
shes told us she didnt have any savings or other means she couldve used to make her 
repayments if she wasnt earning. So I think the PPI would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mrs B off taking it out.my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman