DRN-2272578
The complaint
Ms R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP).
What happened
In 2004 Ms R took out a TMPP to protect her mortgage repayments in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. It also provided other benefits but Im just dealing here with 
Ms Rs complaint that she was mis-sold the PPI part. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Ms R disagrees. 
Mainly Ms R told us that PPI wasnt ever discussed with her and she never agreed to it .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Ideally Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. Halifax couldnt provide all the documents from 
the time of sale. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
Its not surprising, given how long ago this sale happened, that all the paperwork isnt still 
available. I wouldnt reasonably expect Halifax or Ms R to have kept this. 
I appreciate this is frustrating for Ms R. And Ive no reason to doubt that Ms R is certain 
about what shes told us. But its completely understandable that Ms R mightve forgotten 
some of the details of this sale as it was so long ago. 
This means that what Ms R says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her 
complaint. 
I have to look at everything Ive been told and sent and decide what I think is most likely. 
Where theres only limited information I will make reasonable assumptions. I must be 
impartial. 
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used around the time Ms R 
took out her cover. And we already know from looking at other cases what the usual process 
was when Halifax sold TMPP. Ive no clear reason to think that Halifax wouldnt have 
followed its normal sales process here. 
So I think its likely that PPI was explained and recommended for Ms R. 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. The 
home Ms R was buying wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring the mortgage monthly repayments were 
protected even if she couldnt work. The policy offered significantly better cover than Ms R 
already had in place (Ill say more about this later). So, I can see why she mightve felt PPI 
could be useful when she took out the mortgage. 
On balance, I think its likely that it wouldve been clear to Ms R that PPI was optional and she 
decided to buy the policy because she wanted the benefits that having PPI could offer in her 
particular situation. 
Although Ms R doesnt remember Halifax ever personally recommending the PPI to her 
Halifaxs records indicate that the PPI was sold during a meeting. And Halifax says it 
wouldve recommended PPI to Ms R.
Looking at this complaint on the basis that Halifax advised Ms R to take out PPI with this 
mortgage gives the complaint the best chance of succeeding. Thats because a lender 
making a recommendation about PPI has extra obligations to meet. As well as giving clear 
information, Halifax also had to take reasonable steps to make sure the PPI 
recommendation was suitable for Ms R. 
She was eligible for the cover. 
Although Ms R had some sick pay entitlement through work this doesnt mean that Halifaxs 
recommendation was unsuitable.  
PPI couldve protected Ms R if she was disabled or too sick to work for up to 24 months per 
claim  so significantly longer than shed have been able to rely on getting sick pay through 
work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of any other income coming in from work which I think 
couldve been useful if Ms R found she had extra costs as a result of being too unwell to go 
back to work. 
And the policy couldve protected the mortgage payments for up to 24 months per claim if 
Ms R lost her job unexpectedly and found herself out of work. 
Ms R couldve made repeated claims under the policy. So PPI gave her long term protection 
for her mortgage. 
Having PPI meant Ms R could be sure she would be able to make her mortgage monthly 
repayments even if she unable to work. I think this was likely to have been an important 
consideration at the time for Ms R  even if shes now forgotten this. And I think PPI was 
suitable for her, looking at what I know about her circumstances at the time.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Ms Rs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected her decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear to Ms R when she bought the 
policy. But she chose to take out the cover when she didnt have to - so she seems to have 
wanted the insurance at the time. I've seen nothing to make me think the PPI wasnt affordable for her  particularly bearing in 
mind that she also bought other types of cover offered under the TMPP. This makes me 
think that keeping costs down wasnt a priority for Ms R. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Ms R still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as the 
policy gave her useful protection in her particular situation. 
I havent seen enough to make me think that clearer information wouldve stopped Ms R 
buying PPI. So I cant say that she has lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong 
during the sales process.
Ive taken into account all Ms Rs comments, including what shes said in response to our 
adjudicators view about the offer Halifax made to settle her complaint.
In my decision, I've just looked at her mis-sale complaint and the way Halifax dealt with this. 
Our adjudicator explained that weve looked at how Halifax has worked out these types of 
offers and we think theyre working these out fairly.
As Halifax has already offered to give back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms R I dont think 
it needs to do anything more. I understand Halifax has already paid this to Ms R.
So these points dont change my conclusion. 
I appreciate that my decision will disappoint Ms R, but I hope that setting things out as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman