DRN-3693658
The complaint
Mr Os complaint is about a mortgage he has with The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB). He is 
unhappy about how it was administering his mortgage, as despite him making his mortgage 
payments on the due date each month, it sometimes sends him arrears letters, which 
unnecessarily causes him anxiety. He feels that he is being bullied and harassed by TMB. In 
addition, Mr O has been given contradictory information about whether this issue will affect 
his credit file. 
Furthermore, Mr O is concerned about data protection issues. This is in relation to two 
matters, the first of which is that TMB has used an incorrect address for him for 
correspondence and in relation to his credit file. In addition, as he considers that all of his 
payments were made on time, any records of late payments having been made on his credit 
file, would be inaccurate. As such, Mr O wants all adverse entries on his credit file to be 
removed and compensation paid for damage to his credit profile. 
Overall, Mr O wants TMB to pay him a total of £29,000 for the data breaches hes suffered, 
the emotional impact the arrears letters have had on him and the poor service hes 
experienced. In addition, he wants reimbursement for the higher interest costs hes incurred 
on his mortgage borrowing, as he believes he could have re-mortgaged to a different lender 
on a lower interest rate, but for the adverse information TWM has recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr Os mortgage with TMB started in 2003.  
In 2014 Mr O raised concerns about correspondence on his mortgage being sent to a 
neighbouring address. The complaint was upheld and TMB paid Mr O compensation. It also 
assured Mr O that it had corrected his address on its systems to the error wouldnt happen 
again.
Mr O raised a further complaint in early 2018 regarding letters he was receiving from TMB 
about missed payments, despite him considering that he had made all of his payments on 
time. TMB responded to the complaint on 10 April 2018. It explained that it had changed how 
its collections strategy operated with the aim to support customers at an early stage if 
payments were being made late. It confirmed that Mr Os contractual monthly payment 
(CMP) was due on the 28th of each month. However, CMP for February 2018 had not been 
credited to account until 3 March. It said that although it appreciated the payment was in the 
process of being paid, it wasnt received when it was meant to be, so it was late. As such, 
the letter was correctly sent. TMB suggested thar Mr O might want to change his payment 
method to direct debit, which would ensure the payment was received on time.
Mr O raised further complaints about receiving arrears letters in 2021. TMB responded to the 
complaint a letter dated 4 June 2021. TMB again explained the purpose of the letters he was 
receiving was to support customers and let it see if there is anything it could do to help if 
there was a problem. It confirmed that a letter was automatically generated at the end of the 
working day the payment was due if it hadnt been received. It was confirmed when the 
payments were due to be received and that they werent always received on time. It didnt 
consider it had done anything wrong.
A further response was sent to Mr O on 18 June 2021. TMB explained that while Mr O may 
have processed a payment from his account on the day of the month the payment was due 
to be received, payments take time to process through the banking system. This could lead 
to payments not being received in TMBs account on the same day Mr O started the 
transaction. As such, TMB didnt think it had done anything wrong. However, it suggested 
that Mr O set up a direct debit mandate to pay the CMP or set up a standing order dated a 
couple of days before the due date, to ensure that the payment reached the account on time. 
TMB sent Mr O another response letter on 8 July 2021 which explained that his credit file 
would only be impacted if his account was in arrears for an amount equal to at least one 
CMP on the last day of the month. Where a payment was late, but the account had been 
brought up to date by the end of the month, there would be no impact on his credit file. The 
complaint was not upheld.
Subsequently, TMB wrote to Mr O again on 20 July 2021. It referred him back to the three 
letters it had sent him in relation to his current complaint and that it had sent in 2018. TMB 
explained that if he made payments outside of business hours they wouldnt be credited to 
the mortgage until after the date he started the transaction. If he completed the transaction 
within working hours, the payment would be credited the same day. TMB explained that it 
was Mr Os responsibility to make sure the payments were received on time. It repeated 
what it had already told him about when a missed payment would be recorded on his credit 
file as arrears. It also reiterated that the letters he had received automatically generated at 
the end of the working day the payment was due if it hadnt been received. TMB also 
confirmed that the last thing it had recorded on Mr Os credit file was October 2020 when the 
account had been in arrears. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied with TMBs responses and referred the complaint to us. Mr O 
explained that he wasnt willing to have a direct debit mandate set up to pay the mortgage, 
because on two occasions in the past TMB had incorrectly collected the CMP twice for a 
particular month. Subsequently, it had suited his circumstances to have more control over 
the payments. He also confirmed that he had recently been ensuring he made the payments 
around the middle of the day so they credited on the correct day.
When we informed TMB, it questioned whether the complaint about the data protection issue 
fell within our jurisdiction, given it had been more than six months since it had issued its final 
response on that complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os complaint. He concluded that the data protection 
issues raised about correspondence being sent to an incorrect address had been referred to 
us too late. As such, we couldnt consider that aspect of the complaint. He considered the 
merits of the complaint about the arrears letters, the credit file entries, and the information 
Mr O had been given. He didnt recommend these parts of the complaint be upheld.
Mr O didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He explained that when he referred to data 
protection breaches, he was not referring to those that were complained about in 2014, but 
rather current ones. Specifically, TMB was recording an incorrect address against the 
mortgage record on his credit file and letters about his mortgage had been received by 
people in a different street. He said that our approach to the behaviours of TMB around the 
receipt of payments was flawed. He repeated that he believed TMB was deliberately using 
its system to bully and harass him, and this was not something this service should be 
condoning. Mr O said that as it took several attempts for him to get the information he needed about how payments were treated and when they had to be received, he should be 
compensated for the time hed had to waste in obtaining that answer. 
Attached to Mr Os response was a screen shot of his credit file, which showed an address 
similar to his, attached to the mortgage record, but not quite correct. He also attached 
evidence of payments made from his bank account. I have added, from the mortgage 
transaction history, the date the payments were credited:
Date of transaction Time of transaction Date credited to mortgage
29 December 2020 22.18 30 December 2020
28 January 2021 12.51 28 January 2021
25 February 2021 21.19 26 February 2021
29 March 2021 00.30 29 March 2021
28 April 2021 23.12 29 April 2021
28 May 2021 16.52 28 May 2021
Our investigator considered what Mr O had said, but it didnt change his conclusions. As 
such, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration. 
I reviewed the complaint and asked for further information from TMB. It provided evidence 
from its servicing system, credit file reporting system and the mortgage record, showing the 
address it has for the property. All of these systems show the correct address for Mr Os 
property. It suggested that if an incorrect address is showing on a credit file he has 
accessed, he might want to speak to the credit reference agency, as it was reporting using 
the correct address. 
I issued a provisional decision on 22 August 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt. 
I will firstly explain that when a due date is set for the CMP, that is the date that the lender 
must receive the money cleared into its account. It is the borrowers responsibility to ensure 
that the money is received on time. That means that the money has to be received when the 
lender is able to register its receipt for that day  so during working hours. That is not 
unreasonable and its how the banking system works, so I cant find that it was wrong for 
TMB to register payments in this way. I know that Mr O is upset that it took TMB so long to 
explain this to him. However, it is generally accepted that it is common knowledge that this is 
how the banking system works, so I dont think TMB made a mistake in not realising earlier 
that Mr O wasnt aware that his payments needed to be received within the working hours of 
the banking day.
TMB has said that when a payment is not received on the day it is meant to be, its systems 
are set up to send out a letter to the borrower to highlight that this has happened and offer 
assistance if there is a problem. Lenders are required by the regulator to provide assistance 
to customers in financial difficulties, so it is not unreasonable for TMB to flag up missed 
payments as soon as possible. If nothing else, if something has gone wrong with the 
payment method, it would potentially give the customer the opportunity to rectify the situation 
before it had a negative effect on their credit file. The letters also say that if the payment has 
been made since the letter was sent, it should be ignored. I know that Mr O didnt like 
receiving the letters, but I dont consider TMB did anything wrong in sending them.As for the letters informing Mr O that missed or late payments might effect his credit file, it is 
true that if action is not taken it could affect an individuals credit file. So this is again an 
entirely reasonable thing for TMB to inform its customers about. It is not included in the 
letters to bully a customer or intimidate them, but simply to inform them of the fact that not 
paying a CMP on time can have consequences.
I now move to the matter of the data breaches Mr O has raised. He has evidenced that the 
address detailed on a credit reference agency against his mortgage account, is incorrect. He 
has also said that TMB is still sending correspondence to an incorrect address in a different 
street; not the same address as in 2014. 
As I have detailed above, TMB has provided evidence that all of its systems record Mr Os 
correct address, including the system that reports his mortgage to credit reference agencies. 
It has also provided a copy of a recent letter sent to Mr O, which was addressed correctly. 
The evidence I have seen does not indicate that TMB is sending Mr Os correspondence to 
an incorrect address or that it had registered his mortgage against an incorrect address with 
the credit reference agency Mr O has used. In the circumstances I cant find that TMB has 
done anything wrong. However, Mr O might want to speak to the credit reference agency he 
used about the address it has recorded against his mortgage account.
TMB confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and stated it had no further comment to 
make.
Mr O didnt accept my conclusions. He said there were fundamental errors in my 
understanding of the complaint. He went on to reiterate his recollection of conversations with 
TMB and said that it was sending him overdue payment letters willy-nilly, regardless of what 
time on the due date the payments were received. He said that TMB didnt need to send the 
letters out the day the payment was due, but could leave it a few days to avoid upsetting 
customers. He reiterated that he considered TMBs process was a bullying tactic, which 
causes stress and anxiety for its customers. He said that TMB hadnt made reasonable 
adjustments to its procedures in light of his mental health situation. 
In relation to the matter of the incorrect address on his credit report, Mr O said that it was not 
the credit reference agencys issue, it was TMBs. He said that his immediate neighbour had 
received correspondence about his mortgage with TMB at her address for him. He didnt 
provide a copy of any incorrectly addressed letters. In addition, Mr O sent us further images 
from his credit file showing details of accounts with various providers, which showed different 
addresses being used. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly comment about the matter of reasonable adjustments. Mr O has said that he 
believes that due to his health situation, TMB should have changed its procedures. The 
purpose of reasonable adjustments is so that customers with special needs or disabilities 
can access the same services as others. Mr O hasnt been denied access to any services 
from TMB, rather he simply doesnt like its process for ensuring customers know as soon as 
possible that there has been a problem with their payment. 
I have reviewed the additional images Mr O has provided for his credit file. As I have detailed 
above, the images show multiple accounts with different providers, at differing addresses. 
While Mr O believes this supports his conclusion that TMB gave the wrong address to the 
credit reference agency, I am not persuaded it does. I remain satisfied that the evidence TMB has provided shows that the correspondence address it has for Mr O is correct. I also 
note that while he has said mortgage correspondence has been addressed to his 
neighbours address, he hasnt provided any examples of such letters. 
Although I have carefully considered all of Mr Os submissions, including those in response 
to my provisional decision, I havent been persuaded to change my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
11 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman