DRN-2755349
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B had a travel insurance policy with Great Lakes Insurance SE and complain 
that it refused to provide a cash refund for part of their premium. Reference to          
Great Lakes includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
On 12 March 2020, Mr and Mrs B purchased a single trip, travel insurance policy for 
themselves and their family. They had planned a trip with intended departure and return 
dates of 21 July 2020 and 2 August 2020 respectively. Mr and Mrs B paid a total premium of 
£158.28, which included a medical premium in relation to declared medical conditions and 
an additional premium of £79.11 for optional travel disruption extension and excess waiver 
cover. 
On 15 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to Mr and Mrs Bs intended destination. On 24 June 2020, Mr and Mrs Bs 
travel provider cancelled the trip. Mr and Mrs B subsequently contacted Great Lakes in order 
to cancel their policy.  
Great Lakes said that it couldnt offer Mr and Mrs B a full refund as the 14 day cooling-off 
period had expired. It said that Mr and Mrs B could move the policy dates to within 18 
months of the date the policy was purchased or have a pro rata voucher, valid for 36 
months. Great Lakes initially calculated the value of the voucher as £11.88 but increased 
that to £17.60. Great Lakes didnt include in the new calculation the additional premium        
Mr and Mrs B paid for optional travel disruption extension and excess waiver cover. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt think that Great Lakes offer was fair and pursued their complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. The investigator thought that      
Great Lakes offer of a pro rata credit voucher was fair. She set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started 
to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on                  
12 March 2020 and the policy covered various risks before Mr and Mrs Bs trip was 
cancelled.  
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that Great Lakes offer of a pro rata voucher was fair and reasonable but that it 
should include the premium Mr and Mrs B paid for their optional travel disruption extension 
cover and excess waiver cover. That was because Great Lakes was no longer covering the 
risk of a claim from the date the trip was cancelled. 
Great Lakes accepted the investigators view. The value of the recalculated pro rata voucher 
was £43.97.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs B said that they have no intention of 
travelling in the near future. She said that she paid in good faith and a voucher from an 
insurer she thinks treated them unfairly would be the same as no refund at all, as it will not 
be used. Mrs B said that she accepts a partial refund but as she paid by credit card, she 
wants the refund credited to her credit card account and doesnt want a voucher.  
The investigator considered what Mrs B said but it didnt change her view, so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel this policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
I think that a pro rata voucher of £43.97 is a fair and reasonable resolution in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain why: 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period, Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a refund of 
the premium but has a discretion to do so in exceptional circumstances. Looking at 
how the policy is worded, I dont think its fair to ask Great Lakes to consider 
exercising its discretion in this case and to refund the total premium Mr and Mrs B 
paid. Thats because I dont think this type of situation is one which the discretion in 
the policy terms is designed to cover  it specifically mentions bereavement or a 
change in its willingness to cover medical conditions and thats not what happened 
here. Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable including the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the circumstances of this 
case, I think Great Lakes offer of a pro rata voucher is fair. Thats because              
Mr and Mrs B had the benefit of cancellation cover under the policy from the date 
they took out the policy on 12 March 2020, until their trip was cancelled on                
24 June 2020. So, the policy covered the risk of Mr and Mrs B having to cancel their 
trip due to an insured event, including falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical 
condition. So, I dont agree that Great Lakes didnt provide any service to                 
Mr and Mrs B.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B want a pro rata refund credited to Mrs Bs credit card 
account, but Great Lakes isnt obliged to offer that. I think the pro rata refund outlined 
by the investigator and which Great Lakes now agrees to pay is fair and reasonable. 
Thats because Mr and Mrs B had the benefit of the policy up to the date their trip 
was cancelled. The offer Great Lakes has made is more than its obliged to make. 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that a fair and reasonable resolution requires            
Great Lakes to provide a cash pro rata refund, rather than a voucher. 
 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Great Lakes should provide Mr and Mrs B with a voucher for 
£43.97, valid for 36 months.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE 
should now provide Mr and Mrs B with a voucher for £43.97, valid for 36 months.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman