DRN-3218160
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. At the point of supply the car was around 4 years old and 
had covered approximately 20,000 miles.
Mr G experienced some issues with rust on the car and complained to Close Brothers.
Close Brothers arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The engineer said that 
there was rust on the car, but that this would have been present and visible at the point of 
supply.
Following this, Mr G experienced further issues with the sat nav, the engine over revving and 
feeling sluggish when pulling away, worn brake pads and an intermittent fault with the key. 
Close Brothers arranged a further independent inspection. The engineer couldnt replicate 
the engine issues but said that over revving was a characteristic of the car and not a fault. 
The engineer said that the buttons on the key fob were heavily depressed and needed 
replacing, and that the sat nav didnt operate when driving. The engineer said the brakes 
were partly worn but usable.
Close Brothers declined Mr Gs request to reject the car. Mr G complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he was persuaded that there was a fault with 
the key and the sat nav which were present at the point of sale and recommended that 
Close Brothers arrange for repairs. In relation to the rust, the investigator said that this would 
have been visible at the point of sale when the car was inspected and was a cosmetic issue.
Close Brothers didnt agree. It said the issues with the key and sat nav hadnt been raised 
when Mr G first complained and were only raised 4 months into the agreement. It said the 
engineers report state that these faults wouldnt have been present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Mr G didnt agree either. He said he wanted to end the agreement and return the car 
because it was damaged at the point of supply.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that a car must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a  second hand car  such 
as that supplied to Mr G  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require more repairs 
than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that 
there was a fault with the car at the point of supply, as opposed to fault due to general wear 
and tear.
Ive looked at the independent inspection reports. The first report deals with the rust and 
deterioration to the paintwork. The engineer concluded that this would have been present at 
the point of sale and visible on inspection. He said it was acceptable for the age and mileage 
of the car.
The second report deals with the other issues. The engineer found no faults with the engine 
over revving or feeling sluggish. He said the brake pads were partly worn but had life left in 
them. He found an intermittent fault with the key and said the sat nav wasnt working.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present at the point of sale unless the business can show 
otherwise. Having considered the engineer report, Im persuaded that there were faults with 
the key and the sat nav. Both faults arose in the first 6 months. Ive taken into account what 
Close Brothers has said about these faults, but Im not persuaded that the engineers report 
is enough to rebut the presumption. I think its more likely that the faults were present or 
developing at the point of sale. This means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Im not persuaded that the other issues reported by Mr G were point of sale faults. The rust 
was visible on inspection. No faults were found with the engine. The brake pads are 
serviceable items and wear and tear is to be expected with serviceable items on a 
secondhand car.
Putting things right
To put things right, Close Brothers should arrange for the key and he sat nav to be repaired 
at no cost to Mr G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Close Brothers Limited must:
Arrange for repairs to the key and sat nav
Remove any adverse entries relating to the agreement from Mr Gs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman