DRN-2961054
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they didnt receive a fee refund from PFM Associates Limited.  
What happened
A mortgage was recommended to Mr and Mrs W by an appointed representative of PFM 
Associates. Im going to refer to the appointed representative as M.
M had agreed to refund 50% of the procuration fee it received from the lender to Mr and 
Mrs W. The lender paid the procuration fee to M. However, M went into creditors voluntary 
liquidation a few months later, before paying the 50% refund to Mr and Mrs W. The liquidator 
said there arent funds to pay the debt. Mr and Mrs W say PFM Associates is responsible for 
paying the debt to them. PFM said its responsible for the mortgage advice given by M but 
not for its debts. 
Our investigator said PFM is responsible for the fee refund as this was an integral part of 
arranging the mortgage. He said PFM should pay the fee, plus interest at 8%.
PFM Associates raised some issues which related to our jurisdiction and so, before issuing a 
final decision on the merits of this complaint, I issued a decision about this. In summary, I 
said PFM Associates accepted responsibility for the mortgage advice and the arrangement 
of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage, and therefore for ancillary matters such as refunding 50% of 
the procuration fee. I said that refunding 50% of the procuration fee once received from the 
lender was an integral part of arranging the mortgage for Mr and Mrs W. And so this service 
is able to look into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about PFM Associates failing to do this.
Mr and Mrs W agreed. PFM Associates also accepted what Id said. It asked me to note that 
this issue arose within M, which ceased to be an appointed representative of PFM 
Associates and was liquidated prior to the acquisition of PFM Associates by the current 
owners. It also asked me to note that its current management team had reviewed the 
oversight and monitoring of appointed representatives prior to this complaint being made 
and are confident in the oversight currently in place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happened here isnt in dispute. The parties agree that M owed the fee refund (£2,000) 
to Mr and Mrs W when it went into insolvency, and that the liquidator has said no funds are 
available to pay the debt.
In my provisional decision I summarised the relevant law and regulations that relate to the 
responsibility of principal firms for their appointed representatives. I also commented on the 
terms of the agreement under which M was acting. I said that I thought PFM Associates had 
accepted responsibility in respect of M, its appointed representative, giving mortgage advice 
and arranging mortgage products for Mr and Mrs W.
The mortgage recommended by M included a procuration fee, which M agreed to refund part 
of to Mr and Mrs W. This was set out in Ms terms of business and in the suitability report.
I think Mr and Mrs W will have considered the costs of the recommended mortgage  
including fees  when deciding whether to go ahead. I dont think its correct or fair to say the 
amount of the fees Mr and Mrs W expected to pay, or which they expected to be refunded to 
them, were somehow separate from the mortgage advice. I think that the procuration fee 
was part and parcel of the services M provided to Mr and Mrs W. In accepting responsibility 
for M giving mortgage advice and arranging mortgage products M accepted responsibility for 
the fee refund.
I have, as PFM Associates requested, noted that M is no longer an appointed representative 
of PFM Associates and that it says it had already reviewed the oversight and monitoring of 
its appointed representatives. I must be clear that I havent looked into or made any findings 
about whether PFM Associates met its general responsibilities as principal. That would be 
for the regulator to look into. Nor have looked into or made findings about PFM Associates 
responsibility for Ms other debts. That is better dealt with by the regulator, the liquidator or a 
court.
Putting things right
PFM Associates accepted responsibility for the mortgage advice and the arrangement of Mr 
and Mrs Ws mortgage, and therefore for ancillary matters such as refunding 50% of the 
procuration fee. I think refunding 50% of the procuration fee once received from the lender 
was an integral part of arranging the mortgage for Mr and Mrs W. And I think PFM 
Associates is now responsible for making this refund.
M should have refunded 50% of the procuration fee to Mr and Mrs W when it received it from 
the lender. PFM Associates says the lender paid the fees to M on completion of the 
mortgage. PFM Associates should now pay this sum (£2,000) to Mr and Mrs W, with interest 
at 8% simple from the date the mortgage completed to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order PFM Associates Limited to pay £2,000 to 
Mr and Mrs W, plus interest at 8% a year simple* from the date their mortgage completed to 
the date of settlement. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires PFM Associates Limited to deduct tax from this 
interest, it should give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if 
they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman