DRN-3200969
The complaint
Mrs W complains that National Westminster Bank plc misplaced her safety deposit box and 
several valuable items have not been returned to her.
What happened
Mrs W had a safety deposit box with NatWest. She says she last accessed the box in April 
2019. She made an appointment to access the box again in February 2021. She says that 
when she arrived at the branch she was kept waiting and the adviser told her:
We cant find your box. Your box is not on the system. We dont have your box.
Mrs W says she became very concerned at this time. She remembered she had the safe 
custody receipt document from her previous visit. She showed this to the adviser and after a 
further delay the box was produced.
Mrs W says she was so worried about what had happened she decided to remove all items 
from the box and take them home with her. It was only when she arrived home that she 
checked all of the items. She then realised that several very valuable items, some of which 
were of sentimental value, were missing.
Mrs W complained to NatWest. It investigated her complaint. It said that when Mrs W had 
re-deposited her box in April 2019 it had made an administrative error. This meant that, 
although the box was returned to NatWests safe room, the computer system had not been 
updated. It said that was why it hadnt been able to find the box on its system. But, it said 
that when Mrs W provided the deposit receipt, it had been able to locate the box. It 
confirmed the box had not been unlocked. The box had been kept fully secure and under 
dual control, in line with its procedures, at all times. It offered to pay Mrs W £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mrs W didnt accept this. She referred her complaint to our service. She told us shed 
reported the matter to the police shortly after shed realised items were missing from the box.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He said that although thered been a delay 
locating the box, that didnt mean the box or its contents were vulnerable. He thought the 
problem locating the box had no impact on its physical location or its security. He was 
persuaded the box had been under dual control at all times and there was no evidence it had 
been tampered with. Our investigator thought that NatWests offer to pay Mrs W £100 was 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mrs W didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just comment at the outset that Mrs W says shes reported her concerns about this matter 
to the police. I understand that the police investigation has now concluded and Mrs W has 
been informed of the outcome. Ive not been made aware of any new information thats 
arisen as a result of the police investigation.
Its not for me or this service to look into those aspects of Mrs Ws complaint which she 
considers needed to be investigated by the police. Our remit is limited to looking at the 
information provided by both parties and deciding whether NatWest has acted fairly and 
reasonably. Where tangible items have been lost, we arent able to carry out our own 
physical checks to try and determine their location. So, in this decision, Ill only be 
considering whether NatWest has acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the provision of 
its safe custody service to Mrs W.
There is no dispute that when Mrs W attended the branch in February 2021 NatWest 
couldnt initially locate the box. The reason for that, it says, was because there was an 
administrative error when the box was re-deposited in April 2019. 
What happened in April 2019
When an item is re-deposited into safe custody, NatWest requires a new Safe Custody 
form to be completed. It is signed by both the customer and by NatWest. One copy is given 
to the customer and the other is retained by NatWest.  The form includes the customers 
account number, an item description and the full barcode number for the box. Ive looked at 
the form completed and signed by Mrs W in April 2019. It included her account number, a 
description of the item deposited as a small black box. The barcode ended in ***818. 
NatWest says that in April 2019 it failed to update its computer system with the new barcode. 
But, in every other respect, it says it followed its usual procedures. Its provided evidence to 
support what it says. Ive considered that evidence in light of what Mrs W has told us.
Ive looked at the statement for Mrs Ws account. In April 2019, after the box was re-
deposited, Mrs W was charged a fee of £37.60. That was the pro-rata fee for safe custody 
for the period. She wasnt charged a fee for having accessed the box. When compared to 
the fees she was charged in 2017 (when she had previously accessed the box) I can see 
she was charged both a pro-rata fee and a fee (£10) for accessing the box at that time. 
Theres no evidence that the fee for accessing the box had been withdrawn by NatWest in 
April 2019 or that it was not chargeable at that time.
Having thought about the fee that was charged in 2019, I think this supports what NatWest 
has said about an administrative error. I think NatWest failed to update its computer system 
correctly in April 2019. It didnt link the barcode on the box to Mrs Ws account details held 
on its systems. If it had done that, Im persuaded, on balance, the £10 fee for accessing the 
box would also have been debited to her account. It wasnt. 
What happened in February 2021
I think the information about what happened in April 2019 helps to explain why NatWest was 
unable to find details of the box on its systems in 2021. 
Ive noted the terms and conditions stated the Safe Custody receipt had to be produced 
each time Mrs W wanted to access the box. So, although NatWest didnt ask her for this 
initially when she attended in February 2021, I dont think it was unusual for it to have asked 
for this document when it couldnt find details on its computer system. And, when 
Mrs W provided it with her copy of the Safe Custody receipt which had the barcode on it, 
NatWest was able to physically locate the box. There is a difference between what Mrs W told us and what NatWest told us about the 
barcode which was on the box. Mrs W says it was not the same as the barcode on the 
receipt she provided. NatWest says the box was re-barcoded in April 2019.
Having considered the difference in whats been said here, it is the case that the information 
on the receipt was sufficient to enable NatWest to recover the box. For that reason, Im 
persuaded, on balance, that the barcode on the receipt matched the barcode on the box. 
The problem had arisen because the barcode hadnt been recorded, in April 2019, on 
NatWests systems. 
The internal investigation
NatWest carried out an internal investigation into what happened. Ive looked at the findings 
from that investigation. It makes clear that the box was locked when it was given to Mrs W 
and she didnt raise any complaint at the time when she opened the box, or before she left 
the branch, about missing items.
Mrs W says the lock on the box was such that another key couldve been used to open it. I 
havent seen any evidence to support what shes said here about the lock. But, Mrs W hasnt 
suggested the box showed any signs of having been tampered with and she hasnt provided 
evidence to show that it had been opened by another key.
Ive also noted what NatWest told us about its security procedures for items held in safe 
custody. All such items are held in locked boxes, in a safe room and are kept under dual 
control  in line with procedures. 
The internal investigation concluded that the box had been in a secure location during the 
whole period since April 2019. It was in a safe room and under dual control at all times. 
Theres no evidence to suggest that this was not the case. And Im not persuaded that 
because the barcode for the box was not recorded on NatWests systems, this meant it 
wasnt being held in the safe room or that its security was otherwise compromised.
I can see that the terms Mrs W agreed to, and which were on the Safe Custody form she 
signed in April 2019, stated that she was responsible for the insurance of all property 
deposited. Mrs W says she didnt take out insurance for the items because she trusted 
NatWest to keep them safe. So, theres no list of insured items that I can compare against 
the items Mrs W says are missing from the box.
The terms also stated that NatWest hadnt verified the contents of any locked boxes and 
could not accept responsibility for any loss or damage. That doesnt mean it hadnt got a 
responsibility to take reasonable care when providing the safe custody service to Mrs W. 
But, having considered the procedures which it followed in this case, Im persuaded, on 
balance, that despite the administrative error it made in April 2019, NatWest has otherwise 
followed its own procedures. 
Although I know it will disappoint Mrs W, Im persuaded, on balance, NatWest acted fairly 
and reasonably when its internal investigation concluded the correct processes had been 
followed and the box had remained secure at all times. 
NatWest has acknowledged there was a delay when Mrs W attended its branch in February 
2021 and its acknowledged she wouldve been concerned by this delay. Its offered to pay 
her £100 as a gesture of goodwill. Having considered everything here, I think thats fair and 
reasonable. I dont require it to have to do anything more to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint, in part, about National Westminster 
Bank plc.
National Westminster Bank plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that National Westminster Bank plc should pay Mrs W £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman