DRN-2431209
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that two direct debits werent taken out of his account following his switch to 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). Mr R also complains that the card reader didnt 
work so he had to ask for another one. Mr R wants NatWest to pay him £25 compensation. 
What happened
Mr R switched his bank account to NatWest in March 2020. Two direct debit payments which 
were due on 24 March were taken from his previous bank account. Mr R was concerned 
that, despite switching his account to NatWest, direct debit payments were still being taken 
from his previous account.
 
Mr R complained to NatWest and said he was unhappy as he would be incurring charges 
and interest. NatWest said they accepted the switch on 16 March and then received a list of 
all Mr Rs regular payments from his previous bank on 20 March. They said, on the same 
day, they notified each company electronically so they could update their details. NatWest 
explained that a switch takes up to seven business days to complete so Mr Rs previous 
bank remained responsible for the payment of his direct debits until close of business on 24 
March and they would then pick up the responsibility from 25 March. They explained, 
although they had processed the account switch correctly, they would cover any charges or 
interest Mr R incurs as a result of the two payments being taken from his previous bank.
     
Mr R remained concerned and said he wasnt confident all other direct debits had been 
transferred correctly. He was also unhappy that his card reader didnt work when he first 
received it. He asked NatWest to pay him £25 compensation. NatWest refused and said all 
direct debits have been set up correctly and felt they were being reasonable in offering to 
pay any charges and interest his previous bank might apply. They also said that Mr Rs card 
reader didnt work because he needed to request the card reader through his online banking. 
Mr R was unhappy with NatWests response so he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The Current Account Switch Service (CASS) is a free service that lets consumers switch 
their current account from one participating bank to another. Theres a range of benefits 
linked to switching accounts so its understandable consumers will take advantage of this 
service. 
In this case, Mr R has switched accounts and theres no dispute about the dates involved in 
the switching process. Theres a process to follow here so, once a bank accepts a switch, it 
doesnt mean they will start paying direct debits immediately. The CASS process says 
consumers need to wait seven working days for the switch to take place. The information 
Ive seen shows that NatWest did take responsibility for the direct debits after seven working 
days. So, I cant say NatWest made an error or have acted unreasonably in relation to the 
two direct debits taken on 24 March.
 
These payments remained the responsibility of Mr Rs previous bank. I note Mr R is 
concerned about any charges and interest that he couldve incurred but I havent seen any 
information which shows that has been the case here. I understand Mr R has confirmed to 
our investigator that he didnt receive any charges or interest from his previous bank. In any 
event, I can see that NatWest did let Mr R know they would cover any charges or interest Mr 
R incurs as a result of the two payments being taken from his previous bank account. So, I 
dont think NatWest have acted unreasonably here. 
Mr R says there was a further issue following the switch which involved another direct debit. 
I understand another company tried to take payment from Mr Rs previous account. NatWest 
say this wasnt their fault as they had notified all companies about the switch during the 
seven working days switch period. They also provided Mr R with the payment reference for 
this direct debit. I havent seen any information which shows there has been an error here by 
NatWest. 
 
Mr R is also concerned that his card reader didnt work when he originally received it. Ive 
listened to the phone call he made to NatWest to report this and I can see why there has 
been confusion here. Mr R received a card reader which he had enabled but his online 
account wasnt recognising the passcode the card reader was generating. The call handler 
said he wasnt sure why a card reader had been sent automatically but explained that Mr R 
needed to request another one through his online banking to ensure it was linked to his 
online account. I think its reasonable for Mr R to expect the original card reader he received 
to work. But, NatWest explained why it wasnt working and talked him through how to order 
another one which appears to have been done during the phone call. While I can understand 
why theres been some confusion here, NatWest did apologise during the call and also took 
immediate steps to put things right. So, I wont be asking NatWest to take any further steps.
   
In summary, I dont think NatWest have acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case, so it 
follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman