DRN-4355235
The complaint
Mr M has complained Vanquis Bank Limited is asking him to repay cash withdrawals on his 
credit card which he says he didnt make. 
What happened
Mr M got an alert from Vanquis for his credit card. He called to see what had gone on. He 
was told thered been two cash withdrawals made at a cash machine overseas. He says that 
couldnt be him as he was at home. He confirmed that he had his credit card in his 
possession and nobody knew his PIN.
Vanquis emailed a claim form to Mr M which he didnt immediately return. Vanquis closed 
his complaint until Mr M got back in touch a couple of months later. Mr M then completed 
and returned his form claiming fraudulent cash withdrawals.
Vanquis wouldnt refund Mr M. They couldnt see how someone could have used Mr Ms 
credit card and then return it to Mr Ms possession.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our 
investigator believed  in the absence of further evidence from Mr M  it was most likely 
Mr M had authorised these cash withdrawals.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome. He stated hed not been abroad at this time and couldnt 
see how he could have been using his debit card (with another bank) at home whilst his 
Vanquis card was being used abroad. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 25 August 2023 outlining why I wasnt going to ask 
Vanquis to refund Mr M.
I received nothing further from Mr M or Vanquis.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows explains my thinking.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ms complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr M can be treated as 
acting with apparent authority when making transactions on their account.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Mr M needs 
to have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied the two cash withdrawals were authenticated from the information provided to 
us by Vanquis. Im in no doubt the genuine card and PIN were used.
This is relevant as Mr M confirmed in discussions with Vanquis that he had the card in his 
possession when he disputed these withdrawals.
This on its own isnt enough to suggest Mr M allowed someone else to use his card so I 
have taken the following into consideration:
This was a credit card Mr M had had for some time and last used in August 2020. No 
use of his Vanquis account had been made since August 2020 until the two cash 
machine withdrawals on 15 September 2022. 
The PIN on Mr Ms credit card was re-set twice during the five-minute period seven 
different transactions were attempted. The first four transactions were declined 
because the withdrawals would mean  along with the foreign exchange costs  that 
Mr Ms credit limit would be exceeded.
Mr M has told us no-one else knew his PIN. So I have to wonder how an unknown 
third party could access Mr Ms Vanquis credit card and know the PIN to attempt 
withdrawals.
Mr M has insisted these transactions couldnt have been him as he remained in his home 
city. However he hasnt provided any evidence to substantiate this, despite saying he was 
using his bank debit card at the same time. I find it strange that hes not shared this 
information with us.
Overall and based on the evidence, I think its most likely Mr M authorised the transactions 
either by allowing someone else to use his card or by making the transactions himself. I 
wont be asking Vanquis to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against Vanquis 
Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman