DRN-3683506
The complaint
Mr Ts representative has complained, on his behalf, that deVere and Partners (UK) 
Limited failed to inform him of the financial implications  specifically with regard to lifetime 
allowance (LTA) issues  of transferring his occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits 
to a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr T had deferred benefits with his employers occupational pension scheme and, in 
2016, the trustees offered members the opportunity to access an immediate pension 
from the scheme. The employer paid for members to receive advice on their options 
from an appointed representative of deVere, but for simplicity, Ill refer to deVere as the 
respondent business in this decision.
Mr T capitalised on the offer of advice in October 2016, and his circumstances 
were recorded as follows:
He was 56, married and in good health. He had three financially dependent children.
He was employed as a director, earning approximately £169,000 pa.
Mr T had further pension savings within a separate defined contribution 
scheme, valued at around £320,000.
He had enhanced protection in place, and had not made any pension 
contributions since it had been secured.
deVere recommended in an initial report that Mr T take no action, given that he had no 
need for income or capital. As such, no assessment of Mr Ts attitude to investment risk 
was undertaken  although it was recorded that he didnt wish to take any investment risk 
with his pension provision, and so transferring to a personal pension type arrangement, 
such as a SIPP, was ruled out.
Mr T had ceased active membership of the OPS in question in December 2008, at which 
point he was entitled to a pension income of around £38,000 pa at the scheme retirement 
age. Under the offer being made by the pension scheme trustees, Mr T could take an 
immediate pension of just under £37,000 pa, or receive a tax free lump sum of around 
£170,600 and a reduced pension income of just under £25,600.
At the time of the advice, Mr Ts revalued scheme benefits at 65 were projected to be 
an income of £57,500 pa, or a lump sum of £250,000 and a reduced pension of just 
under £41,000 pa. This translated to a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£1,216,000.
A further advice letter was issued in February 2017, in which deVere reiterated its advice 
to retain the scheme benefits. But it said that Mr T had indicated that hed like to act 
against that advice and transfer his deferred benefits into a SIPP. deVere had therefore 
agreed to facilitate the transfer and source an appropriate SIPP and investment options.
The same letter noted that, although Mr T had previously indicated that he didnt want 
to expose his pension funds to investment risk, he now wished to have his pension 
provision within his control and capitalise on the potential for enhanced growth within a 
SIPP. An average investment risk attitude was recorded for Mr T. deVere 
recommended what it considered to be an appropriate SIPP provider and a 
discretionary managed investment portfolio.
The scheme benefits were subsequently transferred into the SIPP.
In December 2019, Mr Ts representative complained that the advice hadnt taken proper 
account of the transitional LTA protection which Mr T had in place  Fixed Protection 2016 
(FP16)  rather than enhanced protection which had been recorded by deVere in the point 
of sale documentation. The representative said that Mr T was now liable to pay an LTA 
charge of around £126,000 due to the transfer  and that deVere hadnt disclosed this 
specific risk to Mr T.
deVere declined to uphold the complaint, saying in summary that Mr T had informed it that 
hed secured enhanced protection before engaging its services, but it was now apparent 
that hed in fact secured FP16, and the information provided by HMRC would have made it 
clear that this meant his pension fund was protected so long as it didnt exceed £1.25m.
It further said that, because of the value of the defined benefits  amounting to £1.15m, 
and the additional pension fund valued at £320,000, Mr T would, either with or without 
advice from deVere, have exceeded the £1.25m lifetime allowance by over £200,000 and 
would have incurred a £50,000 tax charge. This would have been exacerbated by even 
modest growth on the defined contribution fund.
deVere said that the transfer hadnt been the driver behind the tax charge  rather it was 
the nature of the protection Mr T had secured, alongside any subsequent investment 
growth.
Despite clear advice from deVere not to transfer, Mr T nevertheless said he wished 
to proceed, it said.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr Ts representative referred the matter to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered the complaint. He didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld, saying the following in summary:
He noted that Mr T wasnt holding deVere responsible for the transfer itself, 
but rather what he considered to be a failure to disclose all the relevant 
information, specifically with regard to the impact on the LTA.
It was also clear from the documentation that Mr T was acting against deVeres
advice to not transfer.
There was an obligation on an advising firm to gather the necessary facts on which 
to base its advice  similarly, it was up to the client to disclose accurate information 
about their circumstances.
Nevertheless, he thought that the adviser ought to have requested further 
information from Mr T as to the type of LTA protection he held. This was because 
enhanced protection would have been lost where there was pension benefit accrual after April 2006. The fact that Mr T remained a member of the scheme until 
2008 implied that hed been accruing pension benefits up to that point.
But he also noted that Mr T must have applied for FP16 relatively shortly before 
the advice, and so he ought to have been aware of what it was and why hed 
applied for it. The suitability letters referred to enhanced protection and Mr T 
hadnt queried this.
From deVeres perspective, the proposed transfer was permitted under 
HMRCs rules and so wouldnt in itself have compromised enhanced protection.
He agreed with deVeres position that, on the basis of the multiple of 20 
methodology which was used to calculate the cash value of defined benefits, 
along with the value of Mr Ts defined contributions, he would always have 
exceeded the LTA and have faced a charge. This was because Mr T didnt plan 
to retire until age 66.
It was also the case that, although Mr T had decided to transfer for the potential 
of enhanced growth within the SIPP, this would further exacerbate the LTA 
charge which would need to be paid. But until pension benefits began to be 
paid, it was unknown as to whether Mr T would be exposed to a greater LTA 
liability than he would have, had he remained within the scheme.
The investigator said that it was Mr Ts decision to transfer, against the advice of 
deVere, and he thought it likely that Mr T would in any case have decided to 
transfer, irrespective of what deVere had said about the potential impact on the 
LTA.
Mr Ts representative disagreed, however, saying that although it might have been a 
permitted transfer under enhanced protection, this would be lost if the transfer was 
above the appropriate limit. This test wasnt carried out, and so it must be assumed 
that deVere would have needed to consider Mr Ts position on the basis of a £1.25m 
protected lifetime allowance.
Even if Mr T was in any case on course to pay an excess charge on the LTA, an analysis 
should have been undertaken to establish how much extra this might need to be if the 
transfer occurred. Mr T made a decision based on the wrong information, and it needed 
to be determined what he would have done if hed been in possession of accurate 
information. Its view was that, had this happened, Mr T would have opted to retain his 
benefits in the scheme.
The investigator noted the comments, but didnt think that, even if deVere had 
undertaken the appropriate limit test on the basis of Mr T having had enhanced 
protection (which he didnt), he didnt think it would have breached this  the requirement 
being that the value of the benefits hadnt increased by over 5% pa compound.
He remained of the view that Mr T had disclosed inaccurate information, even though 
the details of, and application for, FP16 must have been fresh in his mind. He must 
have understood the benefits of FP16 to be motivated to apply for it, he said.
The investigator agreed that it was always going to be the case that Mr T would exceed 
the LTA, but it couldnt be known until the benefits were crystallised as to how much the 
excess charge would be.But ultimately, he said, it remained the case that Mr T ignored deVeres advice to retain his 
benefits in the scheme. This may have been on the basis of incorrect information, but this 
information had been supplied by Mr T himself. He further reiterated his view that Mr T 
would have proceeded with the transfer, irrespective of what risks had been disclosed.
The representative still disagreed, however, saying the following:
Mr T didnt mislead the adviser  rather he didnt understand the full import of 
the lifetime allowance, the effect of the protection, nor the difference between 
the protections available.
Mr Ts decision to transfer was based upon conversations with colleagues and 
the financial analysis undertaken by deVere. deVere had an obligation to 
engage in detail with Mr T and provide an appropriate, complete and correct 
financial analysis.
It should have been clear that Mr T couldnt have had enhanced protection, and 
that if he did, a transfer could mean that this would be lost. And this fact 
couldnt be avoided by asserting that the advice from deVere was to not 
transfer  Mr Ts decision to act against that advice was based upon the quality 
of the analysis given.
Further, Mr Ts forecast benefits already exceed the LTA, and so this shouldnt 
have simply formed part of a checklist of issues to consider  it was of 
considerable significance in assessing Mr Ts overall position. The transfer value 
was over 20 times the forecast level of Mr Ts pension, which would inevitably 
increase the LTA charge, as would any increase in the value of the transfer due to 
investment performance, but these aspects werent brought to Mr Ts attention.
It was Mr Ts position that he knew he had protection, and, as hed ceased 
pension contributions, he thought he wouldnt be affected by significant tax 
charges in the future.
Mr T was provided with a critical yield which the transferred sum would need to 
achieve to match the scheme benefits, but this didnt take into account the 
increase in the LTA charge which would be incurred through transferring. This was 
misleading. Once the tax charge on any investment growth was factored in, the 
critical yield would be 8.8% pa, rather than 6.6% pa as referred to in the suitability 
report.
Had Mr T been provided with the correct analysis, he wouldnt have transferred, the 
representative concluded. Redress should therefore be calculated on the basis of the 
regulators guidance for unsuitable defined benefits transfers, with an adjustment for the 
LTA charge he would have to pay on the scheme benefits. This would then need to be 
compared to the value of the SIPP, allowing for the LTA charge on that.
Mr Ts representative then provided a detailed calculation which it said demonstrated 
that, if Mr T had been informed about the LTA, he would have remained in the scheme.
In response, the investigator acknowledged that the analysis provided by deVere 
hadnt included the impact on the LTA, but he didnt think a more detailed analysis 
would have extended to the kind of actuarial assessment which the representative 
had presented.In the investigators opinion, deVere had recommended the correct course of action  to 
not transfer  but Mr T had acted against this advice. It wasnt clear to him that, even if 
the impact on the LTA had been pointed out to Mr T, this would have altered Mr Ts 
decision. 
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 7 July 2022, in which I firstly noted that Mr 
Ts representative had asked that both a provisional decision be issued on the complaint 
before any final decision was made, and that it also be afforded an oral hearing.
But I in any case issued a provisional decision as I reached different conclusions to those 
set out by the investigator, and as such both parties had the opportunity to respond 
further.
I didnt therefore consider at that time that an oral hearing was necessary. And I said that 
these are only likely to be held where its felt that the outcome of a complaint couldnt 
fairly and reasonably be determined on the basis of the available documentary evidence. 
But I also said that, if Mr Ts representative felt that this was the case here, it should set 
out its reasons and I could then consider the request.
As to my findings within that provisional decision, I said that I thought that the complaint 
should be upheld. In summary, my view was that, if Mr T had been properly informed of 
the effect of the transfer on the LTA excess charge, and particularly on the critical yield to 
match the scheme benefits, it was more likely than not that he wouldnt have transferred. 
But I also set out a third option, which was that Mr T could have retained and taken his 
scheme benefits at an optimal point in the near future which would have crystallised the 
OPS benefits, combined with his defined contribution pension funds, comfortably below 
the FP16 limit of £1.25m, and provided headroom for investment growth on the defined 
contribution fund.
The following is an extract from that provisional decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I intend to keep these provisional findings fairly brief, for what I hope will be obvious 
reasons. Put simply, I think there was an additional option for Mr T which wasnt explored 
as part of the analysis undertaken by deVere, and one which, if set out to him as a means 
of either significantly reducing or eliminating altogether his liability to a LTA charge, I think 
its more likely than not he would have chosen.
As a preliminary finding, I dont think theres disagreement between the investigator and Mr 
Ts representative that deVeres analysis should have factored in the effect on the LTA of 
the transfer. The investigators view is that this wouldnt have made a difference to Mr Ts 
ultimate decision to transfer, whereas the representative firmly believes the opposite to be 
true.
And I have sympathy with the latters viewpoint. deVere did need to provide a sufficiently 
detailed analysis of Mr Ts position for him to be in a fully informed position to make a 
decision  including one which was to act against the advice of deVere. I think the 
investigator makes a good point about Mr T having recently secured FP16, giving him a 
fixed LTA of £1.25m and it being more likely than not that this isnt something he would have entered into lightly, or without understanding what it meant  especially given the 
potential impact in terms of the charge for exceeding the LTA.
It seems improbable to me that Mr T wouldnt have appreciated what was intended by 
securing FP16. But I do then acknowledge what Mr Ts representative has said about him 
not being a financial professional, and not readily understanding the differences between 
the available protections and what this might mean for his pension benefits. And I think its 
one thing to have the general notion that protection is in place, but another to have 
sufficient financial - specifically pensions - acumen to appreciate what this might mean for 
a transfer of defined benefits. This was much more the domain of deVere, and I do think it 
was its responsibility to ensure that Mr T appreciated the financial consequences of what 
was being proposed.
And even on the basis that the transfer would immediately increase any LTA charge, as set 
out by the representative, and that this would increase the critical yield by approximately a 
third, I think that this would have given Mr T significant pause for thought. He may have 
been keen to take control of his pension and capitalise on the potential for enhanced 
growth, but if it had been explained to him that any such growth would also be impacted by 
an LTA charge, I think this would, more likely than not, have altered his perspective on this.
But as Ive alluded to above, I think there was a further option here, and one which I think 
should have been explored by deVere. My understanding is that, on the basis of the 
scheme income which would have been immediately available to Mr T in 2016, this 
wouldnt have exceeded the LTA. On the basis of the 20 times calculation, the income of 
just under £37,000 pa would have amounted to just under £740,000. If the additional 
defined contribution fund value of around £320,000 was added, this was still comfortably 
below £1.25m, and would have provided headroom for investment growth on the latter of 
nearly £200,000.
Ive noted that Mr T didnt envisage needing to withdraw pension income or capital at the 
time, but if hed been made aware of the LTA charge which would otherwise be imposed, 
either as a result of the transfer, or by taking revalued scheme benefits later on, I cant 
currently see why he wouldnt simply have been best advised to begin taking the scheme 
benefits either at that point, or perhaps  given the headroom available as set out above  
in a few years time. This situation could in fact have been monitored so that the optimal 
time for taking the scheme benefits could be judged.
Mr T would then have taken benefits when he was approaching the LTA limit, taking into 
account his other pension assets. Although this would have meant receiving pension 
benefits earlier than planned, with a lower starting income, he would of course receive 
the income for longer  and if the income wasnt required, he could either invest it as he 
saw fit or immediately gift it away so as to avoid liability on it to inheritance tax.
But perhaps most compellingly of all, the otherwise presumed inevitability of Mr T needing 
to pay an LTA charge of some description could, as far as I can tell, be avoided 
altogether.
If this had been presented as an option, and as a means of avoiding the LTA charge but 
still receiving the benefit of the guaranteed scheme income (and Ive also noted Mr Ts 
originally recorded aversion to taking any risk with his pension funds) I think its more 
likely than not that he would have opted for this and simply crystallised the scheme 
benefits at the most advantageous point.
My current view, therefore, is that deVere should determine at which age it would have 
been best for Mr T to have begun taking his scheme benefits, on the basis that his overall pension benefits, including the separate defined contribution fund, would be lower than 
the FP16 LTA of £1.25m, and that there would remain headroom for investment growth 
of the defined contribution fund of, say, £50,000. I appreciate that deVere may not have 
been advising Mr T beyond a recommendation to begin taking scheme benefits at the 
optimal time, but with such a recommendation, Mr T would have been in a position to 
seek this type of rudimentary yearly analysis elsewhere.
As with Mr Ts representative, I think the most prudent manner of then calculating the 
loss caused to Mr T by not doing so would be to undertake a pension review style 
calculation, assuming that Mr T would have begun to take scheme benefits at the date 
identified above, and that he would have taken the full amount of tax free cash.
This would effectively offset the loss of income and capital since the optimal date of 
taking scheme benefits against any future gain produced by Mr Ts SIPP and defined 
contribution benefits.
But within that calculation should also be factored in the likely LTA charge, using 
pension review discount rates, which Mr T would need to pay at age 65 as a result of 
transferring and not taking scheme benefits at the optimal time.
Any payment of loss into a pension plan would only exacerbate Mr Ts liability to an LTA 
charge, and so any identified loss should be paid to him directly, with a notional 
deduction to reflect the fact that he would have income tax on the benefits. Im assuming 
that Mr T would be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, given the likely starting income 
from the scheme, but I appreciate that there may be alternative views on this, given the 
size of his overall pension fund. As such, my current view is that the notional deduction of 
20% should be applied to 75% of the loss  resulting in an overall notional deduction of 
15%.
In response, Mr Ts representative said that deVere should either agree or consult with 
Mr T regarding the optimal date that he would have taken his scheme benefits to avoid 
paying the LTA.
deVere disagreed with my findings, saying the following in summary relating to the 
submissions made by Mr Ts representative and the investigators findings:
The submissions from Mr T and his representative were flawed, misleading, 
incomplete and inaccurate.
The assertions made regarding what might have transpired, had the adviser 
provided more information to Mr T, werent relevant given the broader evidence 
relating to the case (as set out below).
It wasnt fair to require a higher burden of disclosure from an adviser in an insistent 
client scenario, particularly when the adviser had sought to provide a 
recommendation based upon the objectives and needs as required by COBS 2.1.
The additional actions which Mr Ts representative had said should have 
happened here were outside the remit of an adviser when dealing with an 
insistent client, as defined by COBS 9.5A. 
The FCA guidance on insistent clients said that advisers should follow the normal 
advice rules first, in terms of gaining knowledge of the clients financial situation 
and objectives, and then also act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best 
interests of the clients.It also required firms to communicate in a way which was clear, fair and not 
misleading. But there was no rule to prevent advisers transacting business 
against the advice which had been given.
Mr T gave clear reasons for his insistence on transferring in his own words and the 
advice given to Mr T was clear, fair and not misleading. Mr T confirmed that he 
understood the implications of the transfer on his LTA protection, and having 
identified factors which would mean that the transfer couldnt be recommended, 
the adviser hadnt been obliged to then provide additional evidence in support of 
the recommendation to retain the scheme benefits.
The regulators presumption was that such transfers would be unsuitable unless 
the client could demonstrate otherwise. It wasnt the role of the adviser to 
persuade the client to retain their scheme benefits and it didnt need to provide 
additional evidence to support the status quo.
Mr T was already in breach of the LTA protection when the advice was given, and 
he acknowledged this himself. It was reasonable to therefore conclude that he 
was determined to transfer benefits irrespective of the advice he received.
The outcome of the provisional decision was based on what might have happened 
had Mr T been in possession of additional information. But if this was tenable, 
there was a corollary, which was what the adviser would have done had they 
been in possession of the undisclosed correct information.
Mr T had provided inaccurate information about his finances, which, as a director 
and shareholder of the schemes sponsor, it found difficult to believe was an 
oversight.
The steps taken by the adviser to assess Mr Ts objectives were documented in 
the file. It was recorded that Mr T didnt want to take any risk with his pension 
fund, which was a contributory factor in recommending against the transfer. He 
didnt receive a questionnaire to assess his attitude to risk because the situation 
didnt warrant it.
Mr T reverted to the adviser with the request to transfer and an exercise was then 
undertaken to assess his risk attitude, which was determined as being high  
although he and the adviser agreed to reduce this to average to reflect the size 
of the pension fund.
Mr Ts shift in risk attitude remained an anomaly, and had apparently happened 
following discussions with peers, despite advice to the contrary. But it was 
possible to infer the motives by assessing the corporate actions and decisions 
made. The advice was not to transfer, but Mr T pursued the matter via the 
insistent client route.
As a board director of a large company, it was reasonable to assume that Mr T 
understood the statements he was making and their financial implications, along 
with having an understanding of the LTA protection hed put in place.
Mr T would have been aware of the LTA protection he had in place, either through 
previous advice or his own business acumen, and it was unreasonable to uphold 
the complaint when he had withheld this important information.Mr T was an active director of the scheme sponsor (the employer), and according 
to the February 2019 accounts, had share options amounting to 12.7% of the total 
available options. In light of the sale of his employer in August 2019, these 
options would have become worth more than their face value. And having 
removed his pension liability from the defined benefits scheme, the company also 
became a more valuable entity, from which Mr T would have benefitted.
The due diligence associated with the purchase of a company is a lengthy activity 
and the impact of defined benefit liabilities on the value of a firm was well 
documented. Mr T, as a significant shareholding director of the company being 
sold, would have been actively involved in, or at least aware of, discussions 
around the sale, and the sale of the business would therefore have played a 
major part in his decision to transfer.
Mr T hadnt shared any of this with deVere, and it only uncovered this after the 
event. It had evidence that discussions around the sale of the business were well 
advanced by the time of its involvement with the scheme membership, to the 
extent that it sought assurances that no pressure had been placed on members to 
transfer in light of the transaction. But the fact that Mr T chose not to share either 
his share ownership or his knowledge of the transaction reinforced its view that he 
didnt engage with it in good faith.
It was possible to apply for enhanced protection up until 2009 and so Mr T would 
have been able to accrue further pension benefits beyond 2006. But as its advice 
was in any case to retain the scheme benefits, a relevant benefits accrual test 
wouldnt have been carried out. It would also have expected the scheme 
administrator to have highlighted any enhanced protection members had at the 
time of sharing member information.
But the focus on LTA issues was misplaced. Mr Ts change in risk attitude 
demonstrated that something else motivated him to transfer his defined benefits  
likely the sale of the business  and so he was determined to transfer irrespective 
of any LTA consequences.
It didnt agree that there was a requirement to undertake an appropriate limit test 
to see if the transfer would be permitted under enhanced protection. The advice 
was to not transfer. Furthermore, Mr T was aware of the value of his accrued 
pension rights, hence the reason for applying for FP16, and hed told the adviser 
that he was aware of how the excess would be treated.
As to the position of Mr Ts representative that, even if Mr T was on course to pay 
an excess charge, an analysis should have been undertaken to determine the 
effect of this if the transfer occurred, it said that this was flawed as Mr T would in 
any case have transferred for the sake of the gain he would achieve through the 
sale of the employer.
In any case, Mr T was aware that his pension benefits exceeded the LTA at the 
point of the transfer, was aware of how the excess would be treated and so will 
also have been aware that the bigger the fund, the higher the tax charge.
With regard to the assertion that Mr T hadnt misled the adviser about the 
protection he held, but rather hadnt understood the full import of the LTA, the 
effect of protection, nor the different protections available, deVere said that the only protections available to Mr T in 2016 were FP or Individual Protection (IP), or 
both. Whoever provided advice to him at that point would have made the 
difference clear to him. That Mr T had said that hed ceased pension contributions 
demonstrated that he understood the difference between FP and IP.
The recommendation to not transfer was based upon Mr Ts wants, needs and 
objectives, his desire to keep his options open at retirement and the security it 
provided - and that he had no need to access his pension at that stage. It 
repeated its view that Mr Ts decision to transfer, some three months after the 
recommendation to not do so, was motivated by other factors, in particular the 
significant gain as a shareholder, which would in any case have superseded the 
LTA considerations.
These additional considerations werent known by, or disclosed to, the adviser, 
and so they couldnt be incorporated into the advice.
As to the point relating to the increased critical yield to match the scheme benefits 
due to the tax charge which would be levied on the excess over the LTA following 
the transfer, deVere said that a TVAS and critical yield are generic and not 
specific to an individuals circumstances. They shouldnt be the foundation on 
which a decision about whether or not to transfer should be based. Rather, this 
should be based on an individuals objectives. Its advice was in any case to retain 
the benefits.
deVere also disagreed with the position of Mr Ts representative that he wouldnt 
have transferred if hed been presented with the correct analysis. The correct 
analysis was undertaken on the basis of Mr Ts objectives, wants and needs. 
Advice shouldnt be given on the basis of achieving specific rates of return. If it 
was, due to the manner of calculating CETVs, all transfer proposals would be 
dismissed. The point was that, to justify a transfer of defined benefits, there 
needed to be a requirement to take benefits in a different form from those offered 
by the scheme, and this wasnt present here, hence the recommendation to not 
transfer.
Specifically addressing my findings in the provisional decision, deVere said the following:
It repeated its point that Mr T must have understood the nature of the protection he 
had secured by way of FP16, and if he didnt then this wasnt the fault of its 
adviser. It could only assume that Mr T had sought advice on this, and would have 
been aware of the need to do so given the significant sums involved. Further, Mr T 
indicated that he understood the implications of transferring on his LTA and was 
nevertheless determined to transfer.
It was unverifiable hypothesis to conclude that Mr T would have changed his mind 
about transferring if the correct critical yield had been presented to him. 
The LTA tax charge could have been planned for at age 75, but Mr T removed 
deVere as his advisers in 2018.
The position that Mr T was allowed by the adviser to proceed with the transfer in 
the absence of full information wasnt tenable in light of the corporate activity from 
which Mr T was due to make a substantial gain.As to my suggestion that Mr T could have begun to take the retained scheme 
benefits at the optimal time, deVere said that he was an additional rate taxpayer 
and he had no need to access the scheme pension. It would have been taxed at 
45%, and he wouldnt have been able to redirect the income into a pension 
wrapper due to the fixed protection.
There was no harm in building funds above the LTA, so long as careful 
management and advice was implemented. A decision on whether to access 
scheme benefits early shouldnt be made in order to mitigate an LTA tax charge, 
but be focussed on future income needs. If Mr T took his scheme income early, 
this would have been half of what he needed to cover his outgoings. He would be 
financially compromised if he became ill and couldnt work, or died suddenly.
The prospect of Mr T paying an income tax bill of over £165,000 from 2016 to his 
selected retirement age wasnt an acceptable customer outcome.
deVere also said that my proposal for it to calculate redress wasnt a fair outcome and 
failed to take account of Mr Ts wider situation which it had described and produced 
evidence for. It added that, as my provisional decision had been constrained and informed 
by the information presented by Mr T and his representative, it requested that I reconsider 
the position.
It further said that it would be happy to demonstrate the benefit to Mr T over the longer 
term of not taking his scheme benefits at the earlier point, but it said that this would 
require valuations of Mr Ts SIPP and his other defined contribution pension funds. It said 
that it could show that, with careful planning, he and his family will be better off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly reassure deVere that no higher burden of disclosure on its adviser has been 
applied here. As commented on within the regulators guidance which it has quoted, I would 
expect the same level of disclosure for both insistent and non-insistent clients, and this 
would involve the provision of important and relevant information so that a consumer could 
make a fully informed decision as to whether to transfer their defined benefits.
And my view here is that the information provided by deVere was misleading  it omitted the 
effect of the transfer on the charge on the LTA excess, and on the critical yields which it 
quoted, and should very much have been a part of a rationale as to whether Mr T should 
transfer, especially if it was then in any case going to transact the business on an insistent 
client basis. 
The regulatory presumption is indeed that such a transfer would unsuitable, but a firm must 
still give the reasons for this, especially, as Ive said above, if it is then going to transact the 
business anyway. deVere failed to provide the complete picture, and so Mr T was in an 
uniformed position. The natural conclusion otherwise would be that a firm could simply say a 
transfer was unsuitable because a client hadnt demonstrated that it was, provide no or very 
few reasons for this, but then transact the business anyway. Reasons have to be given  
otherwise, the client cannot reasonably or credibly be said to be insistent.
deVere has said that it covered what it needed to when providing the recommendation to not 
transfer, and that it didnt need to provide additional evidence. But Id query as to what it 
considers might constitute additional evidence. deVere seems to be under the impression that information such as the correct critical yield, which should either factor in the effect of 
the LTA excess tax charge, or at the very least have some commentary that this would be 
higher due its effect, is optional additional evidence. 
For clarity, my firm view is that its not. Put simply, the rationale for either transferring or not 
transferring  especially where the latter is followed by an insistent client process - must 
include all aspects relevant to the suitability of the transfer. It should be an accurate 
assessment of the reasons to transfer or not, and this would reasonably include a fair 
representation of both the critical yield and any adverse effects, such as that on the LTA tax 
charge, which might be incurred by transferring. To omit such important aspects from a 
suitability assessment, and then transact the business on an insistent client basis, would not 
be acting in a clients best interests.
As to the matter of enhanced protection, my understanding is that, whilst it could have been 
applied for up to 2009, benefit accrual for defined contributions needed to have ceased by 
April 2006. For defined benefit schemes, this could continue up to an appropriate limit, but 
no test was applied to determine whether this was the case. 
But if deVere expected the scheme administrator to have shared any details of enhanced 
protection with it, but none was forthcoming, this must surely have been a clear indication, if 
not confirmation, that Mr T didnt have enhanced protection in place. And it may not have 
thought that it needed to conduct an appropriate limit test to determine whether the transfer 
would be permitted under enhanced protection, but if Mr T was determined to proceed, these 
are the types of consequences of which he needed to be aware, and again, especially if 
deVere was going to transact the business on an insistent client basis.
Notwithstanding the above, on the assumption that Mr T did have enhanced protection, 
deVere ought reasonably to have identified that he may have already breached this. But he 
could still have secured FP16 (as was in fact the case), taken scheme benefits at the optimal 
time, and then not been in breach of the £1.25m LTA. 
The capitalised value of Mr Ts pension benefits didnt exceed £1.25m (the level of protection 
provided by FP16) before the transfer  this is Im afraid a flawed point repeated by deVere 
throughout. And although deVere has also said that Mr T was aware and accepting of this, it 
should in my view have pointed out that this wasnt in fact the case. He may have been on 
course to exceed his LTA at retirement, but Mr T could have remained below the limit of 
£1.25m through prudent management of his defined benefit and defined contributions 
benefits. 
And I dont think it was beyond its remit, when providing advice, to confirm that Mr T 
shouldnt transfer on the basis that such prudent planning and management of his defined 
benefits and defined contributions pension funds could ensure that he wouldnt breach his 
LTA. Even if it didnt provide advice specific as to when Mr T should begin drawing on is 
scheme benefits to avoid the LTA, my view is that the general principle of doing so would 
reasonably have fallen within a holistic assessment of whether the transfer was suitable  
and if not, as would have been the case here, why that was so.
deVere has also downplayed the effect of the LTA charge on the required critical yield by 
saying that such measures are generic, rather than specific to an individuals circumstances. 
Im afraid I dont understand this point. The critical yield is determined by comparing the 
specific scheme benefits which will likely be received by a member against those specific 
pension fund benefits which will be created through the transfer  taking into account all the 
individuals specific circumstances, including age, term to retirement, married status etc. 
Theyre not therefore generic, but determined by the individuals specific circumstances.Id agree that a critical yield shouldnt be the only determining factor when considering the 
suitability of a proposed transfer, but its nevertheless a key indication of the level of growth 
which will need to be achieved to match the relinquished scheme benefits. And I maintain 
the view that the difference between 6.6% pa and 8.8% pa is significant, and is likely to have 
prompted Mr T to reconsider. Ive noted the apparent elevation in Mr Ts attitude to 
investment risk between October 2016 and February 2017, which deVere has described as 
anomalous, but I deal with this further below.
deVere has further said that there would be no harm in exceeding the LTA, so long as 
proper planning and management was implemented around this. But this is precisely my 
point, in that careful planning and management could and would have prevented Mr T from 
exceeding the LTA in the first place. And that this could, and should, have happened as a 
part of the assessment as to whether he should transfer his defined benefits. Had this 
happened, Mr T could then have received a guaranteed income, aligned with his original 
aversion to investment risk, which he could then invest, albeit not in a pension fund, but 
potentially in another type of tax efficient investment vehicle.
The scheme benefits would have been proportionally lower to reflect the earlier payment, but 
as I said in the provisional decision, would have been payable for longer.
Mr T may well also have been paying additional tax at 45% on the scheme income, but this 
compares on the face of it rather favourably to the 55% which would be levied on a lump 
sum withdrawal of the excess over the LTA, or the 25% in addition to the regular income tax 
rate of the individual which would be levied on income withdrawals. So if Mr T was presumed 
to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, then the effective tax charge on the excess would 
be 45% - 20% usual tax rate, plus the 25% LTA tax charge on top of his 
Advice to not transfer and instead implement effective planning to not exceed the LTA would 
also have prevented the excess over the LTA escalating further as the pension fund would 
be presumed to grow in the intervening years up to Mr Ts planned retirement. Mr T would 
effectively end up paying a higher tax charge on not just the transferred sum, but whatever 
that had grown to by the time he came to take the benefits.
deVeres points relating to the early accessed scheme pension representing half of what Mr 
T needed to cover outgoings, and what would happen if he lost his job or died, sound very 
much like reasons to transfer, which is contrary to the advice it actually gave. To clarify, had 
Mr T adhered to deVeres recommendation and not transferred, Mr or Mrs T would have 
found themselves in the same position with the scheme benefits. An unemployed Mr T would 
have either needed to find alternative employment, which I dont think can be ruled out, or 
begun to take the scheme benefits. The position would be the same. Unless of course the 
recommendation had been to transfer, which would mean that Mr T could take higher sums 
through flexi access drawdown. As Ive said above, however, this was the opposite of 
deVeres advice to retain the scheme benefits.
And had Mr T died, then it seems likely that Mrs T would have received the same death in 
service benefits if he was still employed. If Mr T had begun to take the scheme pension 
benefits, Mrs T would receive a widows scheme pension. Had Mr T retained the scheme 
benefits according to deVeres recommendation, but Mr T hadnt yet begun to take them, 
Mrs T would also at that point have begun to receive the widows pension. 
So on the basis of Mr T having retained the scheme benefits, as recommended by deVere, 
the position in terms of unemployment or death would have been broadly neutral.
Furthermore, Mr T had a defined contribution pension fund of over £300,000 which he or Mrs 
T could access if required in extreme change of circumstances. I think its also likely that Mr T is an individual of some significant financial means, illustrated to good effect by deVeres 
points relating to his shareholdings in his employer. And so it seems likely to me that, by 
accessing the scheme benefits earlier than planned, Mr T wouldnt have been jeopardizing 
his and Mrs Ts future financial security. On the contrary, I think the prospect of not needing 
to pay an unknown, but likely substantial, charge on the excess over the LTA and instead 
receiving a guaranteed, escalating income, would have resulted in them feeling more, not 
less, financially secure.
deVere has said that an income tax bill of over £165,000 from 2016 to his retirement date 
wouldnt be an acceptable customer outcome, but for the reasons set out above, its difficult 
to see how this would be any less palatable than the likely higher charge which will be levied 
on the excess over the LTA as a result of the transfer.
Would Mr T in any case have transferred if provided with a complete analysis and 
recommendation?
deVere has said that, even if it had provided what it considers to have been additional 
information, Mr T would in any case have proceeded with the transfer. 
My view as set out in the provisional decision was that, if properly informed about the effect 
of the transfer on the breach of the LTA, and on the critical yield required to match the 
scheme benefits, along with the possibility of avoiding the LTA excess charge altogether by 
retaining the scheme benefits and taking them at the optimal time, Mr T would have 
accepted the recommendation to retain those benefits.
But deVere has suggested what it considers to be an additionally motivating factor behind 
the transfer, and which is says may well account for the anomalous elevation in Mr Ts 
attitude to investment risk between October 2016 and February 2017. This is that Mr T, as a 
shareholder in his employer, would have appreciated that, through a sale of the company 
which would be unencumbered by defined benefit pension liabilities such as his own, his 
shareholding would have increased in value.
And so Ive put this argument to Mr Ts representative, who has said that the potential to sell 
the company had been ongoing for several years and it was a matter of awaiting an 
acceptable offer. The exercise relating to the review of the scheme pension benefits was 
separate and very much a matter of individual choice, and the company set out to both the 
directors and employees that independent advice was being provided so that the merits of 
transferring could be assessed for each individual, it added.
The representative also said that Mr T had confirmed that he was unaware of any potential 
benefit to the value of the company as a result of him transferring his pension benefits, and 
he didnt consider it at all likely that, had he not transferred, the sale of the company wouldnt 
have achieved the same price.
Mr T further said that he was unaware of how many directors had transferred their defined 
benefits out of the scheme, and he suggested that we approach deVere for this information 
as it had advised many, if not all, of the companys employees.
And so we asked the question of deVere, which said that it was aware that, as at February 
2018, five directors (56%) had transferred out of the scheme. It was unaware of what the 
other four had done, as it hadnt dealt with them. Of the five it did advise, it recommended 
that four (aside from Mr T) transfer out. Mr T proceeded against its advice to not transfer out.
It further said that it was aware that some other senior managers who werent directors also 
transferred out.I think deVere has raised an interesting point, and Ive thought about it carefully, but overall, 
given the available evidence, I dont think that this demonstrates clearly, or even on the 
basis of what is more likely than not to have been the case, that Mr T was influenced in his 
decision making by the pending sale of the company.
I think that, had deVere advised against the other four directors transferring, but they had 
nevertheless done so, this might strengthen the argument made by deVere in that regard. 
But that isnt what happened here  they simply followed its advice to transfer.
As such, I think its interesting speculation on potential influencing factors here, but not 
something which I think I could fairly or reasonably deem to be an actual determinative 
aspect. Moreover, if Mr T was acting against deVeres advice on the basis of seeking to 
improve the companys appeal to a potential buyer, I see no reason as to why Mr T wouldnt 
in any case have been transparent with deVere about this at the time. deVere has itself said 
that Mr T gave clear reasons as to why he still wished to proceed with the transfer, against 
its advice. If a personal benefit to him through the transferring out of his own pension 
liabilities featured in that rationale, and on the basis that the advice process would have 
been conducted in confidentiality, then it could only have strengthened his case. But it was 
absent from his reasoning.
And so, on balance, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably conclude that the pending sale of 
the company was the catalyst for Mr T to transfer. I think he did so on the basis of a 
consideration of the assessment undertaken by deVere, albeit with significant omissions 
which, for the reasons given, if corrected, I think would have changed his decision.
Summary
My view remains that, for all the reasons given, Mr T would have been better off retaining his 
scheme benefits and accessing them early to avoid the LTA excess charge altogether.
deVeres further suggested that it could demonstrate to Mr T how, with careful planning, and 
even having acted against its advice through transferring, Mr T would have been better off 
by not beginning to access his scheme benefits early. I think this will be a matter for Mr T 
and deVere, separate to this decision. 
If deVere can demonstrate to Mr T by way of the redress calculation and other 
recommendations that he would still  and may still  be better off through not having 
accessed the scheme benefits early, then Mr T may accept that outcome.
As it stands, however, my view remains that deVere should undertake the redress 
calculation proposed in the provisional decision and pay any loss directly to him.
Putting things right
deVere and Partners (UK) Limited should determine at which age it would have been best 
for Mr T to have begun taking his scheme benefits, on the basis that his overall pension 
benefits, including the separate defined contribution fund, would be lower than the FP16 
LTA of £1.25m, and that there would remain headroom for investment growth of £50,000 
on the defined contribution fund. Mr T would then have needed to decide how and when 
he would access the latter, given that there would be an additional test of any remaining 
drawdown or uncrystallised funds at 75, but I think any further potential to an LTA charge 
at that age could have been addressed by the same kind of prudent management  and 
which deVere says it could itself have employed - which would have avoided the LTA 
earlier on.As set out in the provisional decision, I appreciate that deVere and Partners (UK) Limited 
may not have been advising Mr T beyond a recommendation to retain his scheme benefits 
 which I think, for the reasons set out above, as part of the rationale should have included 
the manner of being able to avoid the LTA charge altogether - and begin taking them at 
the optimal time to avoid incurring an LTA charge, but with such a recommendation, Mr T 
would have been in a position to seek this type of rudimentary yearly analysis elsewhere.
And I remain of the view that the most prudent manner of then calculating the loss caused 
to Mr T by not doing so would be to undertake a pension review style calculation, 
assuming that Mr T would have begun to take scheme benefits at the date identified 
above, and that he would have taken the full amount of tax free cash.
This would effectively offset the loss of income and capital since the optimal date of taking 
scheme benefits against any future gain produced by Mr Ts SIPP and defined 
contribution benefits.
But within that calculation should also be factored in the likely LTA charge, using pension 
review discount rates, which Mr T would need to pay at age 65 as a result of transferring 
and not taking scheme benefits at the optimal time.
Any payment of loss into a pension plan would only exacerbate Mr Ts liability to an LTA 
charge, and so any identified loss should be paid to him directly, with a notional deduction 
to reflect the fact that he would have income tax on the benefits. I said in the provisional 
decision that Id assumed that Mr T would be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, given the 
likely starting income from the scheme, but I also said that I appreciated that there may be 
alternative views on this, given the size of his overall pension fund. 
No dissenting views on this specific point have been forthcoming, however, and so the 
notional deduction of 20% should be applied to 75% of the loss  resulting in an overall 
notional deduction of 15%.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct deVere and Partners (UK) Limited 
to undertake the above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman