DRN-1510438
 
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) rejected his claim under his 
critical illness policy. 
What happened
Mr Ts policy with LV began in April 2012. Mr T sadly fell ill in 2013. He contacted LV to claim 
for a stroke but this was declined. Unfortunately, Mr Ts health continued to decline. In 2016 
he was unable to continue making payments for his policy. So his policy lapsed on
16 May 2016. 
In 2018 Mr T contacted LV through his solicitor to claim under the Total and Permanent 
Disability (TPD) section of his policy. Unhappy with the time it was taking to review the with 
the claim, Mr T then made a complaint. 
LV looked into the complaint and sent a final response letter  dated 25 November 2019  
saying it was still reviewing the medical information. Unhappy with this response, Mr T asked 
this service to investigate the complaint. He said he felt he had the medical evidence to 
show that he was permanently disabled before his policy lapsed.
LV then said to this service that it didnt think Mr T met the following policy definition;
"Loss of the physical or mental ability through an illness or injury to do at least 3 of the 6
work tasks list below ever again.
The relevant specialists must reasonably expect that the disability will last throughout
Life with no prospect of improvement, irrespective of when cover ends or the insured person
expects to retire. 
The insured person must need the help or supervision of another person and be unable
to perform the task on their own, even with the use of specialist equipment routinely
available to help and having taken any appropriate prescribed medication.
Walking - the ability to walk more than 200 metres on a level surface
Climbing- the ability to climb up a flight of stairs and down again, using the handrail  if 
needed
Lifting - the ability to pick up an object weighing 2kg at table height and hold for 
60seconds before replacing the object on the table.
Bending - the ability to bend or kneel to touch the floor and straighten up again
Getting in and out of a car - the ability to get into a standard saloon car and out againWriting - the manual dexterity to write legibly using a pen or pencil, or type using a 
desktop personal computer keyboard."
 
The policy goes on to add, "For the above definition, disabilities for which the relevant 
specialists cannot give a clear prognosis are not covered." And the policy schedule, under 
the heading "Special Provisions", states:
"We will not pay a Critical Illness claim for Permanent Total Disability if it is due to, or arises 
from anxiety state, neurosis, depression or other mental disorder."
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He didnt think there 
was enough information to reasonably establish Mr T met the policy definitions. 
Mr T disagreed. He said he had done enough to establish  on the balance of probabilities - 
he was permanently disabled before his policy lapsed. And that there wasnt enough 
evidence to suggest his condition was psychological in origin. 
So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know this will come as a big disappointment to Mr T so Id like to explain my 
reasons.
Mr T has provided medical evidence from two different professionals. His solicitor says Mr T 
should be considered permanently disabled as one of the specialists has now said  on 
balance  Mr T was permanently disabled before the policy lapsed. Ive considered these 
professional opinions very carefully and the various points which have been raised by his 
solicitor. However, Im not satisfied Mr T meets the full criteria to make a claim for TPD 
under this policy. 
In order to ask LV to pay this claim, I need to be satisfied Mr T met all of the policy criteria I 
have mentioned above before his policy lapsed in May 2016. 
Ive considered what the policy says in relation to Mr T needing to be told by the relevant 
specialists that his disability will have no prospect of improvement. I believe this means the 
medical evidence must show he meets the policy definition whilst the policy was in force. 
This is important because although I do understand Mr T has had a very difficult time since 
he started experiencing his symptoms many years ago, he stopped paying his premiums in 
2016 which led to his policy lapsing. And his claim wasnt submitted until August 2018. This 
means over time LVs position has been prejudiced somewhat in terms of reviewing Mr Ts 
medical circumstances from the time his policy was still active. 
I agree with our investigator when he mentioned that Mr Ts specialist said in January 2019 
that Mr T wouldnt be able to do the walking and climbing tasks. The specialist added that
Mr T would struggle with the lifting and bending tasks. However, the policy requires Mr T to 
be totally and permanently unable to do these tasks before May 2016. Not just experience 
pain. So Im not satisfied he has met the required 3 tasks outlined by the policy here. Ive also taken into consideration that a report from October 2014 says Mr T could be 
permanently disabled once he had commenced and failed a rehabilitation programme. But 
Mr T hadnt failed this programme before the policy ended in 2016. This is important as it 
shows that before the policy lapsed Mr T was being seen by a specialist in rehabilitation. At 
the time this specialist was hopeful that with various treatments, Mr T would make an 
improvement. 
I note that in July 2017 Mr T was still being treated by the specialist who has now said  on 
balance  he was permanently disabled in early 2016. She said - in July 2017 - Mr T was 
recommended for a chronic pain management programme for a mix of medical help, 
physiotherapy and psychology. I think this shows even after the policy had lapsed that Mr Ts 
specialists thought there was still hope of his condition improving. So this wouldnt meet the 
policy definition which requires Mr T to be totally and permanently disabled. 
So Im satisfied Mr T hasnt shown he was permanently disabled as per the requirements of 
his policy before it lapsed. So LV has applied this term to Mr Ts claim fairly.  
LVs policy says conditions without a clear prognosis arent covered. When Mr T saw a 
Psychologist in July 2016 Ive noted that no clear diagnosis for his medical condition had 
been given at this point. So Im satisfied from the information Ive seen Mr T hadnt been 
clearly diagnosed before the policy lapsed. 
I note Mr T feels there isnt enough evidence to suggest his condition is psychological in 
origin. But there is various evidence to suggest that  on balance  his specialists thought 
there was a psychological element to Mr Ts condition. He was referred to various specialists 
to review this and it is regularly mentioned in the medical evidence. But even though I feel 
there probably isnt enough to say with certainty his condition was due to or arises from a 
psychological condition before the policy lapsed, Mr T still hasnt satisfied the other parts of 
the policy criteria Ive mentioned above. 
So Im afraid I cannot fairly ask LV to accept Mr Ts claim based upon the medical evidence 
Ive seen here. 
I can understand why Mr T was frustrated by the length of time the claim took to be resolved. 
So Ive reviewed the timeline of the claim. I note the claim was submitted in August 2018. 
Complicated claims such as Mr Ts can take some time to review and process due to various 
bits of information needing to be requested from different medical professionals. I note in this 
case there were delays in waiting for the medical information from some of the medical 
professionals. And considering this service does expect some complicated claims to 
sometimes take up to a year to review, I dont feel LV needs to make any compensatory 
award here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman