DRN-3958410
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with the amount of compensation U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has offered 
after they cancelled her van insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J has a commercial van insurance policy with UKI. On 14 September 2022 she 
contacted UKI via message chat to update bank details for her monthly direct debit. UKI 
confirmed that it had been updated.
As Mrs J had been told everything had been completed, she cancelled the previous direct 
debit mandate with her bank. Due to UKIs systems, this automatically put the policy into 
pending cancellation.
On 16 September 2022 UKI sent Mrs J a text, and a letter, letting her know there had been 
payment problems, and if she didnt contact them within 14 days, the policy would be 
cancelled. Mrs J says she didnt receive either of these communications.
As Mrs J hadnt contacted UKI, the policy automatically cancelled with effect 
30 September 2022 and confirmation was sent to Mrs J by letter dated 1 October 2022. 
However, Mrs J didnt receive this until 8 October 2022 so had been driving without 
insurance for several days.
On receipt of the cancellation notice, Mrs J immediately contacted UKI. They arranged for a 
new policy to be set up, at the same cost, and confirmed theyd be responsible if anything 
had happened between the two policies. UKI also offered £20 compensation, which included 
£5 toward the lengthy phone call Mrs J needed to make.
Mrs J was unhappy with this amount, so she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things. Initially he didnt think £20 was enough, and he 
recommended a further £55 be paid taking the total compensation to £75. However, UKI 
didnt agree and re-highlighted the documents they sent Mrs J at the time, and that theyd 
set up a new policy at the same price as soon as they were aware.
The investigator revisited things and his view changed. He said he thought £20 was fair, so 
he didnt recommend UKI do anything further.
Mrs J didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the end position our investigator reached. Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed by UKI that things went wrong. UKI recognise that they had told Mrs J that 
her bank details had been changed and everything had been updated on 
14 September 2022. UKI accept they should have told Mrs J not to cancel the previous 
direct debit mandate at that stage, and it was this that then caused the policy to be put into 
pending cancellation by UKIs systems.
Therefore, what happened and caused the issue isnt disputed by UKI - and this is why they 
offered £20 compensation.
UKI has provided a copy of the letter and text message which were sent to Mrs J on 
16 September 2022, warning of the payment issue, and pending cancellation in 14 days. 
Whilst I recognise Mrs J says she didnt receive either, Im satisfied UKI has demonstrated 
they were both sent, so I cant hold UKI responsible if they werent received.
Our investigator also sent a copy of these to Mrs J. And following receipt, Mrs J questioned 
that the top of the cancellation document dated 16 September 2022 also had a date of 
24 October 2022. However, to clarify and reassure Mrs J, this is the date of the file 
submission to this service from UKI, rather than any relation to the actual letter being sent on 
a different date. As I say, Im satisfied UKI has demonstrated it was sent on 
16 September 2022.
I appreciate it would have been concerning for Mrs J to find out she had been driving without 
insurance for several days after the policy was cancelled with effect 30 September 2022. But 
fortunately, there were no losses or claims during this time. So, I cant reasonably ask UKI to 
compensate Mrs J for something which couldve happened  but didnt.
As soon as Mrs J received the cancellation notice on 8 October 2022 and contacted UKI, 
they arranged a new policy, matched at the same price. Whilst Mrs J was unhappy at the 
time that she needed to pay a deposit, UKI needed this to be able to start the policy. And 
Mrs J has since exercised the cancellation rights under that policy and says she has 
received a partial refund which shes happy with.
Whilst I do recognise Mrs J is unhappy with the £20 compensation UKI has offered, I think 
that amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going to direct UKI to 
increase this.My final decision
U K Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £20 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay the £20 (if it hasnt already done 
so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman