DRN-2609564
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited in relation to his pension savings. Firstly it gave him an incorrect valuation and also 
said it would send him a video in British Sign Language (BSL) which it then didnt provide. 
What happened
Mr H is deaf and prefers communication using BSL, although he can use email and online 
methods.
He has a pension plan with Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) and wanted 
to set up an annuity to take his benefits. In July 2019 L&G sent Mr H a warm up letter 
showing his fund was valued at around £183,000. This was incorrect as the actual valuation 
was around £93,000. Mr H was unhappy that L&G had made such a significant error. He 
also complained that hed been promised a video in BSL which L&G then couldnt provide. 
L&G upheld the complaint, apologised and offered £150 for the inconvenience hed been 
caused. Mr H didnt feel the compensation reflected the scale of the error, he felt 10% of 
£93,000 was a fairer figure. So he referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint which he split into the two issues. He told 
Mr H the complaint point about the BSL video might need to be made to another firm. While 
the team which said it could provide the BSL video had been part of L&G at the time, that 
part of its business has since been transferred to another firm, so theyd have to respond to 
that part of the complaint. 
The investigator understood Mr Hs disappointment at finding out hed been given an 
overstated valuation of his pension fund and having his expectations raised. He said Mr H 
hadnt acted on the valuation so theres no financial loss, and he was only under the wrong 
impression for a short time, so he thought £150 was fair. 
Mr H agreed not to proceed with the BSL complaint against L&G as he accepted that part of 
the business was now with another firm. But he didnt think £150 fairly reflected how 
upsetting hed found the experience. So its been passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for the same reason as our investigator. I realise 
this will be disappointing for Mr H, so let me explain why. 
Ive seen the letter dated 2 July 2019 sent to Mr H headed Your Personal Pension Scheme 
No 1 which is known as a warm-up pack. It invites Mr H to start thinking about how he 
wants to take his benefits prior to his retirement date of 8 November 2019. Under the 
heading Arrangement number(s) it quotes his plan number ending 969 twice and gives a 
valuation of just over £183,441. L&G explained that as the plan was quoted twice it 
effectively doubled the value. 
Mr H emailed L&G on 12 July 2019 to ask about his annuity options. Due to his hearing 
impairment he wanted to be able to communicate by email but was told L&G had to run 
through the quote during a call, but this could also be done using the text relay system. Or 
if he was intending to retire within 30 days he could go online and do the quote himself. Mr H 
had some difficulties with the online system which no doubt added to his frustration. He 
contacted L&G via text relay on 23 July and during this exchange he was given the correct 
valuation of around £92,553 and a rough idea of the pension income he could expect, plus a 
link to L&Gs online retirement calculator. So Mr H was made aware of the correct valuation 
three weeks after the date of the warm up pack. 
I understand Mr H would have liked the higher valuation to be correct as he says it led him to 
believe hed be well off in retirement. But I think he might have been surprised the plan value 
was so high, looking at his annual statement dated 11 February 2019. Mr Hs plan is split 
into protected rights (PR) and non-protected rights (NPR) which confusingly have the same 
plan number. In the statement the PR valuation was given as £58,588 and the NPR element 
as £26,587 (totalling £85,175). It also showed how the value had increased from February 
2018 when it was £57,827 and £26,412 (total £84,239). So it would seem unlikely that the 
value had increased so significantly in just a few months. 
We expect businesses to put consumers in the position theyd be in had the error not 
happened. If thered been no mistake the 2 July 2019 pack would have shown the correct 
valuation, Mr H was never entitled to the higher amount. While Im sure it was disappointing 
for Mr H to be told the higher value wasnt correct, hes just experienced a loss of 
expectation, theres been no actual financial loss. 
L&G has apologised and offered £150 for the poor service which is in line with what Id 
recommend. We dont expect compensation to be calculated as a proportion of the sums 
involved, so I think this offer is fair and Im not going to ask L&G to pay more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense the offer already made by Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited is fair. It should pay Mr H £150 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman