DRN-1064129
Complaint
Mr K says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about the sale of PPI policy sold in 1995. The policy was sold to Mr K at 
the same time he arranged his mortgage, and provided cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks complaint. 
Theres limited information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mr K, which isnt 
unusual given the sale took place many years ago. As a result, Bank of Scotland hasnt been 
able to provide copies of Mr Ks actual paperwork from the time of sale. Bank of Scotland 
also hasnt been able to tell us how the PPI was sold to Mr K. 
So, Ive based my findings on the information I do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened at the time of sale. 
Bank of Scotland says that Mr K would have been given a choice about the PPI and it would 
have gained his consent before adding it to his mortgage. Due to the time that has passed 
and the lack of information I have about this sale, there isnt anything to say whether or not 
Bank of Scotland gave Mr K a choice about the PPI. Businesses arent required to keep 
information indefinitely and so it would be unfair to say that Bank of Scotland wouldnt have 
given Mr K a choice or gained his consent, just because it doesnt have the paperwork. I 
cant assume something went wrong when there isnt any persuasive evidence that it did. So 
it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint on this basis.
Bank of Scotland says its sales process at the time would have been to recommend the PPI 
to Mr K. And the policy seems to have been right for him based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. 
 
While Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the policy wording from 
1995, it has referred us to a copy of a policy wording for 1997  which is the closest copy it 
has to the time of sale. Because of this, I havent seen the policy wording from the time of 
sale. But based on the closest copy Ive seen and using what I know about these types of policies generally, I think its likely Mr K would have been eligible for the cover. And I cant 
see that they would have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr K has told us he was self-employed at the time of sale, so Ive looked at whether this 
means the policy wasnt right for him. Having reviewed the closest copy we have of the 
policy terms and conditions, I think its unlikely that it would have been more difficult for Mr K 
to claim than an employed person. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
Bank of Scotland was wrong to recommend the PPI to him.
Mr K has told us that he had some savings that he could have used to help cover his 
mortgage repayments. Taking a mortgage is a large, long term financial commitment. If 
repayments arent met borrowers stand to lose their home. In the event of a successful 
claim, the PPI would have paid out a benefit of up to 12 months, which would have enabled 
Mr K to use his savings for any other financial commitments he may have had at what could 
be a difficult time. So, I don't think Mr K's savings would have meant that the PPI wasn't right 
for him.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mr K, Bank of Scotland also had to give 
him clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Bank of Scotland didnt 
give him all the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it 
should have been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have stopped Mr K from taking it out.
So overall, I think Bank of Scotlands recommendation was suitable and I dont think that any 
better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
It follows that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
Based on everything Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman