DRN-2883500
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he 
made on his home insurance policy after damage to his bathroom. Reference to Lloyds 
includes its agents.  
What happened
Mr C holds a home insurance policy with Lloyds. After he noticed the floor in his bathroom 
was raised, he called a plumber to inspect his bathroom as he suspected there might be a 
leak. A plumber attended and found a leak and fixed it. In doing so, the plumber found 
damage to Mr Cs bathroom and advised him to make a claim to his home insurance 
provider.
Mr C made a claim to Lloyds. Lloyds declined Mr Cs claim and said the damage had been 
caused gradually over time, and the policy specifically excluded this.
Mr C wasnt happy with Lloyds decision and complained. He said he raised the claim as 
soon as he realised there was an issue and didnt think it was fair Lloyds declined his claim.
Lloyds didnt change its response, so Mr C brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought it was clear that the damage had been caused gradually over time. 
But she thought it was unlikely Mr C would have known this. She thought it most likely that 
Mr C made a claim as soon as he realised there was damage to his bathroom. Our 
investigator didnt think it was fair Lloyds didnt deal with Mr Cs claim based on the damage 
being caused gradually. She recommended Lloyds deal with Mr Cs claim. And she also 
recommended Lloyds pay Mr C £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not 
paying for this claim  because as a result, Mr C wasnt able to use his bathroom and had 
moved in with his sister.
Mr C agreed with our investigators view. But Lloyds didnt. It pointed to Mr C making a 
previous claim in 2014 for something very similar that it hadnt paid out on for the same 
reasons. It said it didnt think Mr C had had the work done and was in effect, making the 
same claim again for the same damage.
Our investigator didnt think this was fair either. She said Mr C had taken out a loan to cover 
the previous repair  and the loan amount matched the invoice for the repair. She also 
pointed out that the flooring was different. She thought Mr C had shown that he had had the 
previous repair carried out, and thought what Mr C was claiming for now was a new issue.
Lloyds still didnt agree to deal with Mr Cs claim. It maintained the damage was caused over 
time, and it thought the extent of the damage  and that the damage was increasing over 
time - would have been evident to Mr C. It maintained it was acting in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when not dealing with his claim.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has come to me to issue a decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy with Lloyds covers him for damage caused by an escape of water. It doesnt 
cover him for the cost of the plumbing to stop the leak. Mr C is claiming for the cost of the 
damage, not the cost of the plumbers call out.
Lloyds has said the damage is unlikely caused by a leak. It thinks its more likely been 
caused gradually by moisture in the room and failed sealing and grouting. I appreciate 
Lloyds position here, but Im more persuaded by the plumbers findings that the damage was 
caused by a leak which is an event insured by Mr Cs policy. And the plumber feels that leak 
caused the bath to sink, causing the failing to seals and grouting around it.  
Lloyds has also said the damage was caused over time, and the policy specifically excludes 
such damage. And this is true. Mr Cs policy says hes not covered for any damage caused 
by anything that happens gradually over a period of time, for example corrosion, damp, 
condensation, decay or decomposition. This is what Lloyds call a gradually operating 
clause.
In this case, its clear the damage was caused gradually over a period of time. But in order to 
rely on this term, I think Lloyds would have to show that Mr C was aware of the damage, and 
didnt do anything about it. And I dont think thats the case here.
Mr C said he made a claim as soon as he was aware there was damage. He said the 
damage was behind the tiles and under the bath and floor, and the first time he noticed this 
was when the floor began to raise and he called his plumber.
Lloyds has said the damage would have been evident and has pointed to black mould, 
visible rot behind the bath and the fact the swelling has caused the door not to function 
properly. Lloyds has also pointed to extensive damage to Mr Cs kitchen units. But Mr C 
accepts this damage was caused gradually. And crucially the damage to the kitchen was 
caused by a different escape of water. And that damage isnt in dispute in this complaint.
Ive considered both Lloyds and Mr Cs arguments here. And I find Mr Cs version of events 
plausible. The pictures of the damage clearly show black mould and the bathroom is clearly 
in a poor state. But the vast majority of this damage is behind the tiles and hidden from view. 
And black mould in itself isnt a reason to suspect a leak. Bathrooms are damp places, and 
poor ventilation and/or hygiene can cause black mould to grow. Ive also considered the 
comments made about the door swelling and not being able to be closed. Here too I can 
understand Lloyds argument. But I also dont think not being able to close the door would 
make Mr C think there was a leak behind his tiles.
Mr Cs policy says hes not covered for Wet and dry rot or mould unless this was caused 
directly by any event insured by this policy. But in this case, I think the rot was most likely 
caused by a leak as explained above. And it wasnt clearly visible to Mr C.
So the key point here is that I think its unlikely Mr C was aware of the damage being caused 
to his bathroom due to the leak. I think he most likely made a claim as soon as he was 
aware of the damage. And so I dont think its fair Lloyds rely on the gradually operating 
clause to decline Mr Cs claim.
Lloyds has pointed to another claim Mr C made in 2014. It says it declined this claim under 
the gradually operating clause. It says theres no evidence Mr C has the work carried out to 
repair this damage. But I dont think thats the case. Mr C has provided evidence he took out 
a loan for the amount shown on the invoice for that repair. And as our investigator pointed out the flooring had changed. I think its more likely than not that Mr C did have that damage 
repaired. Had he not done, its likely his bathroom would have suffered much more damage 
in the years between making that claim in 2014, and this claim in 2020.
I dont think its fair Lloyds decline Mr Cs claim for that reason either. I think hes done 
enough to demonstrate that what hes claiming for is a new separate issue covered by his 
policy. And as mentioned above I dont think its fair that Lloyds rely on the gradually 
operating clause to decline this claim.
Putting things right
To put things right Lloyds should deal with Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. If there are no other terms and conditions preventing this claim 
being paid, then Lloyds should settle Mr Cs claim in line with the policy limits.
Mr C has also not had use of his bathroom, and has moved in with his sister. But Im also 
mindful of the damage to the kitchen and that that damage too might have contributed to 
Mr Cs decision to move in with his sister. However, Mr C has been without the use of his 
bathroom, and that in itself has caused trouble and upset. Therefore, to compensate for that 
Lloyds should pay Mr C £250.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to:
Assess Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And 
if required, settle the claim in line with the policy limits.
Pay Mr C £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman