DRN-3881811
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mr C holds with Barclays Bank UK PLC. The 
essence of the complaint is that Barclays increased Mr Cs monthly payment to an amount 
he couldnt afford, and misled him about the reason why. He continued to pay the lower 
amount, resulting in arrears accruing on the mortgage. Mr C has since repaid what he 
consider he owes, less the arrears, which he says are Barclays fault and should be waived. 
Mr C has found the whole episode very stressful and says his credit profile has been 
damaged.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr C and Barclays. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr C being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, rounding 
the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr Cs mortgage is interest-only and in 2018, he agreed a fixed rate deal with an end date in 
January 2021. In December 2020, Barclays wrote to remind Mr C that his deal would be 
ending the following month. The letter told him the mortgage would revert to a tracker rate 
and included information on how he could arrange a new deal if the tracker didnt suit him. 
On 30 January 2021, Barclays wrote to confirm the mortgage was going onto the tracker 
rate, and advised the new monthly payment would be a little over £900.
In March 2021, Mr C spoke to Barclays on the phone, saying he couldnt afford the new 
amount. The person he spoke to was seemingly confused about why it had gone up, and 
wrongly told him it might because the mortgage had changed from interest-only to capital 
repayment. However, the call handler also told Mr C, correctly, that he needed to call 
another team to make changes to his monthly payment, and gave him the number to call. 
However, by the time Mr C next contacted Barclays, in May 2021, his account was by now in 
arrears, and he was ineligible for a new interest rate deal.
Mr C complained, and Barclays issued a final response in July 2021, referring Mr C to our 
service. He contacted us in December 2021 to let us know he wished to complain. In the 
meantime, Mr C had continued paying his old monthly amount (a little under £400) so 
significant arrears had accrued. In the spring of 2022, Mr C paid a lump sum that, as far as 
he was concerned, cleared the mortgage in full. However, that amount excluded the arrears, 
which Mr C thinks are Barclays fault and should be waived.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Whilst accepting the call 
handler had given incorrect information in the March 2021 phone call about why the monthly 
instalment had gone up, Mr C had been advised on what he needed to do at that point, and 
hadnt done it. Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The case itself is simpler to decide than it might appear at first glance. Yes, the information 
Barclays provided in the March 2021 phone call about why the monthly instalment had gone 
up was less than helpful. But I have to keep in mind that Barclays had already given Mr C 
the correct information in writing. The letters it sent him in December 2020 and 
January 2021, between them, told him his fixed rate was due to end, that his monthly 
payment was about to go up to over £900 and that he could request a new rate if he wanted. 
Those letters were correctly addressed, and theres no record of them having been returned 
undelivered. I accept post can sometimes go astray, but its unlikely both letters failed to 
reach their destination. Also, during the March 2021 phone call, Mr C was again given the 
details of who to call if he wanted to change his monthly payments. Mr C had no reason not 
to call the relevant team immediately, and every reason to call it in order to try and agree a 
new interest rate deal that was closer to the fixed rate that had recently ended. 
By his own admission, Mr C couldnt afford the new payment on the tracker rate, and each 
month he continued to pay under £400 instead of £900 without taking steps to arrange a 
new deal with an amount he could afford, the shortfall was only ever going to grow. Incorrect 
information was given in the March 2021 phone call, but thats not the issue on which the 
outcome of the complaint turns. 
For me to uphold Mr Cs complaint, there has to be an unbroken chain of causation between 
the incorrect information and the arrears that formed between the end of the previous fixed 
rate and the lump sum part redemption Mr C made in 2022. I appreciate this wont sit well 
with Mr C but the unavoidable truth, however unwelcome it might be, is that due to Mr C not 
taking the initiative and arranging a new interest rate product that was more affordable (or 
less unaffordable) at the earliest opportunity, that chain doesnt exist.  
I make one last observation; I used the term part redemption in the previous paragraph 
deliberately. Mr C has not, as he believes, paid off his mortgage in full. It still has a balance 
owing, broadly corresponding to the arrears that built up during 2021 and early 2022. Thats 
a legitimate debt, on which a monthly interest payment continues to be due. Mr C has sent 
us a statement from his current account which indicates that interest payment is a little under 
£23 and is being paid by direct debit. 
The reason Mr C sent us that current account statement was because, in addition to the 
direct debit payment, a standing order payment to the mortgage account was attempted in 
the same month for his old monthly amount of just under £400, but then reversed due to 
insufficient funds. Although hes unhappy about that too, we dont simply pick up and run with individual issues as they occur; if that were the case, complaints would in effect become 
moving targets and risk never being brought to a conclusion. 
Our rules only allow us to consider matters covered in the final response the consumer 
received before coming to us. However, what I can tell Mr C, if it is helpful to him, is that a 
standing order is an instruction given by a customer, on which the current account provider 
must act (assuming there are funds to cover it). If he hasnt already done so, Mr C might 
want to cancel that standing order if he doesnt want Barclays to try and act on it. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from his submissions how important this is to Mr C. Thats a natural 
reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as he has been 
here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman