DRN-3459953
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains about Funding Circle Ltds loan settlement calculation and 
says it wasnt provided with adequate information regarding the cost of early settlement 
when it took out the borrowing. P is represented by a director, Mr D.
What happened
In 2018, P took out a commercial loan arranged through Funding Circle, a peer-to-peer 
lending platform. According to the loan agreement, P borrowed £52,750 (including a loan 
completion fee of £2,750), at an interest rate of 9.50%. The loan was to be repaid over 60 
monthly payments of £1,107.85, giving a total amount payable of £66,471.
In mid-2020, P sought to settle the loan, but was unhappy with the redemption figure 
Funding Circle gave it. P didnt think the amount shown on the redemption statement was 
correct, in that it included interest rather than the amount of capital required to settle. P 
further complained that Funding Circle didnt provide early settlement example illustrations 
when it took out the loan, noting that other loan providers do provide such information. P 
said if Funding Circle had done this it would not have taken out the loan.
Funding Circle accepted its original settlement figure was incorrectly calculated, though not 
for the reason P cited. Funding Circle said its figure failed to take account of the contractual 
interest due in July. It apologised for this and offered P £25. However, Funding Circle didnt 
agree that the settlement calculation was wrong in principle. It said the loan agreement 
provided for accrued interest to be charged in the event of early settlement.
P remained dissatisfied with Funding Circles position and referred matters to us. Our 
investigator was satisfied Funding Circle had calculated the loan repayment schedule (the 
amortisation schedule) in line with the loan agreement, and had promptly corrected its error 
in respect of the settlement figure. He didnt accept Ps contention that it wouldnt have taken 
out the loan had Funding Circle provided early repayment illustrations at the outset, noting 
that P had already taken two previous loans through Funding Circle without this information.
P maintains its view that at point of sale Funding Circle was not transparent in the way 
repayments would work and how the amortisation schedule would work. The dispute has 
now been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ps point about the information Funding Circle provided when P took out the 
loan. But the comparison P seeks to draw with other forms of lending is slightly flawed. The 
type of borrowing it took out  commercial borrowing undertaken by a limited company  isnt 
subject to the same requirements as, say, lending regulated under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 or a regulated mortgage contract. It would be wrong for me to apply the same 
obligations to Ps borrowing arrangements where Parliament decided not to make this type 
of borrowing subject to regulation.
Funding Circle is a firm that operates under Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) permissions, 
and there are some general principles that apply to all such firms. Notably, a firm must pay 
due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a 
way which is fair, clear and not misleading.
The Lending Standards Boards Standards of Lending Practice for business customers 
outlines what I consider to be good industry practice in this respect. It says lenders should 
respond to requests from their customers in an open and transparent manner, in relation to 
information it holds about the customers products...they should be provided with sufficient 
amount of information to answer their query in an open and transparent way.
Neither of these things oblige Funding Circle to set out the loan amortisation schedule or 
early repayment illustrations at point of sale as a matter of course. The position might be 
different if P requested such information prior to entry and Funding Circle declined to provide 
it. But that is not Ps contention, and Ive no reason to think Funding Circle would have 
refused such a request.
With this in mind, Funding Circle appears to have complied with its general obligations by 
setting out in the loan agreement the basis on which interest is calculated and early 
repayment would operate. I fully understand why P would have preferred this to be 
expressed in a different format, but the way Funding Circle set things out isnt inherently 
unfair, unclear or misleading. Im satisfied the credit agreement explains these aspects in a 
sufficiently transparent way.
Of course, Funding Circle failed to meet this obligation when it provided the wrong 
settlement figure. That much has already been acknowledged by Funding Circle. It corrected 
the error within a few days, reissuing the document with the appropriate redemption figure. It 
offered £25 compensation to reflect this.
P hasnt suggested that it acted in reliance on the wrong information to its detriment, such 
that any further award might be warranted. Overall, I see no basis for me to require Funding 
Circle to take any further action in response to Ps complaint. P should contact Funding 
Circle directly if it now wishes to accept this sum.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, I dont consider Funding Circle Ltd needs to do anything 
further to settle this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf of 
P, to accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman