DRN-3310871
The complaint
Mr O complains that Jaja Finance Ltd did not communicate with him regarding a debt he
owed to them and they registered a default.
What happened
Due to personal circumstances, Mr O suffered financial difficulty. As a result of this he was
unable to meet at least his contractual minimum monthly payment on his Jaja credit card. Mr
O missed payments on the account from October 2017. He also had several other debts he
was unable to service.
Mr O informed Jaja of his financial difficulties in November 2017 and he explained to them
that he was in the process of selling his house. He said he would be able to pay the
outstanding balance when his house had been sold. Jaja applied breathing space to his
account for one month on two occasions and they sent him an income and expenditure form
to complete.
Jaja say that they spoke to Mr O on the phone on 6 February 2018. By this point he had not
made any payments to his account since 5 September 2017. They said that Mr O had
proposed a £1 token payment towards his outstanding debt, as his income and expenditure
details showed he didnt have enough income to meet his payments, however, Jaja informed
Mr O that they were unable to accept this offer.
Jaja sent a notice of default to Mr Os registered address dated 6 February 2018. This
explained the actions he needed to take by 27 February 2018. As Mr O did not pay the
arrears by the date given, then the account defaulted.
Mr O wrote to Jaja and again proposed to pay £1 towards the outstanding balance each
month. Since the account had already defaulted, Jaja agreed and Mr O started to make
payments of £1 to the account, but he later stopped paying this. Jaja charged off the debt
(not to be confused with writing off the debt) in September 2018 which meant they stopped
actively trying to collect on the debt.
Mr O sold his house and he thought he paid off all of his creditors. In 2020, he signed up to a
free credit score company and he saw that he had an outstanding balance owed to Jaja. He
contacted Jaja, updated them with his new address and asked them if there was still an
outstanding balance owed to them, which Jaja confirmed that there was.
Mr O made a complaint to Jaja. He said that they hadnt been in contact with him regarding
the outstanding balance, so he thought he had settled the balance when he paid all of his
other creditors and he said they shouldnt have registered a default.
Jaja did not uphold Mr Os complaint. They said that Mr O had missed payments from
October 2017 and the default was applied from 8 February 2018, which was more than 90
days after non payment to his account.
Jaja also said that while Mr O thought he had paid off the outstanding balance, this would
have taken place approximately 19 months after they had revoked his credit and applied the
default. Finally, Jaja disagreed that they did not make reasonable attempts to contact Mr O
regarding the outstanding balance.
Mr O brought his complaint to our service. He also said that Jaja didnt respond to his Data
Subject Access Request (DSAR). Our investigator upheld his complaint and said that Jaja
should remove the default from Mr Os credit file as Jaja had said that because they
defaulted the account, they didnt send him statements. Our investigator said it is correct that
once an account is actually defaulted, they dont need to correspond. But they only gave a
default notice, they didnt actually default Mr O. Jaja confirmed they have defaulted Mr Os
account in 2020. On this basis they should have corresponded with Mr O after the default
notice was sent in February 2018.
Our investigator also said that Mr O had been paying £1 a month and although he broke that
agreement, if Jaja had contacted him about it then he could have kept up to date with that
arrangement and then paid off the outstanding balance when his house was sold.
Jaja asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint as they said they had registered the
default before the arrangement had been made. They said they hadnt sent statements after
the default had been registered as they were not required to. They also said they had not
received some of the correspondence Mr O says he sent them, including the DSAR.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill start by saying that its clear to me what a difficult time Mr O has been through and
is going through here. Hes clearly trying to be proactive in dealing with his finances at a very
tough time.
I will only be able to look at the merits of this individual complaint that Mr O brought to our
service about Jajas decision to not remove adverse data from his credit file and them not
responding to correspondence he sent them. And as such I wont comment on issues that
have risen recently such as the transfer of the outstanding balance to a third party debt
management company and how this is displayed on his credit file - even though he has now
paid off the full outstanding balance. Under our rules, Jaja has to have the opportunity to
respond to that issue before we can look into it. He will be able to raise a separate complaint
for this issue if he wishes to do so.
Both parties dont agree on several points. So Ive looked at all of the information available to
me in order to decide what is more likely to have happened and when, on balance of all the
evidence here.
When Mr O informed Jaja of his financial difficulties, I can see that Jaja gave him breathing
space for a month on two occasions. This meant that they wouldnt default the account
during this period.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. A notice of default was issued to Mr Os registered address on 6 February 2018, as
it had been more than three months since Jaja received a payment from him (the last
payment Mr O made was 5 September 2017). The letter confirmed that a default would be
registered if Mr O did not pay the arrears within 21 days.I can see from Jajas system notes that Mr O had proposed to Jaja on the same day the
default notice was issued, to make a payment of £1 to his account each month until he sold
his house and then he would be able to pay off the outstanding balance. But Jaja told him
they were unable to accept his offer. As the proposed payment was substantially less than
his contractual monthly minimum payment and he hadnt made a payment for five months by
this point, then Jaja were entitled to register a default here, when no arrangement had been
made by the deadline given in the notice of default letter.
I can see from the bank statement that Mr O provided us that he paid some of his creditors
in September 2019. If Mr O would have paid Jaja at the same time as the other creditors,
this would have been two years after he paid his last payment and 19 months after his
account defaulted. So I cant ask Jaja to remove the default they registered, when it was
reflective of his account repayment history and because Jaja could register a default after
three months of arrears, which is what they did.
Jaja have confirmed that they registered the default on 8 February 2018 and not in 2020. But
as their default notice gave Mr O until 27 February 2018 to clear his arrears, then they
should not have registered the default for the date which they did. Ive considered the impact
of the mistake that Jaja made here. But because Mr O did not clear his arrears by 27
February 2018, Im not persuaded there has been much of an impact here. By registering
the default on 8 February 2018 instead of 27 February 2018, this slightly works in Mr Os
favour as the default will disappear from Mr Os credit file 19 days earlier than it would have
done if Jaja had recorded the correct date, therefore I wont be asking Jaja to amend the
date of the default here.
Ive considered what Mr O has said about Jaja not following his debt up. Ive looked at Jajas
system notes which show that prior to the default being registered they had tried to contact
Mr O several times. After the default has been registered, they still try and communicate with
Mr O and then they agreed to him paying £1 a month. As Jaja took a business decision to
charge off the outstanding debt in September 2018, this meant that they werent going to
actively pursue Mr O for the outstanding balance. So when Mr O stopped paying the £1 a
month at a later date, this is why Jaja didnt contact him about breaking the repayment plan.
I think it was reasonable for Jaja to do this. I say this as although Mr O feels strongly that
they were wrong to do this, it had been a year at this point since Mr O had made at least his
contractual monthly payment. So Jaja may have felt they had exhausted their collections
process. Also, as Mr O had told them that he would pay them when he sold his house, I think
it was fair for Jaja to take him at his word, so they wouldnt need to keep chasing him for
payment if they thought he was going to pay them once Mr O had sold his house.
Next, Ive considered what Mr O has said regarding Jaja not replying to the correspondence
he sent them between January 2018 - June 2018 and the DSAR. The system notes which
Jaja have provided me shows when they have received correspondence from Mr O. I can
see that it appears they received his April and June 2018 letters as the system shows Jaja
had received inbound correspondence with an income and expenditure attached.
The April system note says they have agreed to this arrangement and they have issued an
agreement letter today. In response to the June 2018 letter, the system note in July 2018
shows they have sent him a letter to agree his arrangement. Due to the time that has
passed, Jaja dont have a copy of these letters anymore, however, the system notes show
these letters were sent to Mr O.
So although Mr O has said Jaja didnt respond to him, Im not persuaded that they have
received all of his correspondence as it would have been showing on their system. But when
they did receive his correspondence and they responded to him, Mr O hasnt received this.Jaja have confirmed that they didnt receive any DSAR that Mr O had sent them. And Ive
seen no evidence that they did receive this. So Im not able to hold Jaja responsible for any
issues with the postal service here.
In summary, Jaja registered a default in February 2018, after non payment on Mr Os
account for several months. So even though Mr O had proposed a repayment plan of £1 a
month, which Jaja rejected, Jaja acted fairly by registering a default, as they carried out their
regulatory responsibilities by doing so. As Jaja had charged off the debt in September 2018,
then they werent actively going to pursue the debt  and they werent required to. And this is
why they didnt follow this up with Mr O. So it follows I dont intend to ask Jaja to do anything
else.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Jaja said they had nothing to add to the provisional decision. Mr O did not respond 
to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman