DRN-3354304
The complaint
Miss M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited treated her unfairly when she was 
unable to continue paying premiums on two flexible whole of life policies.
What happened
In 2004, Miss M took out two separate whole of life policies with Aviva. One policy provided 
life cover and the other provided critical illness cover. In April 2020, because of the impact 
Covid-19 had on her income, Miss M was unable to pay the premiums for the policies. Miss 
M contacted Aviva to ask what she could do, and Aviva told her the premiums could be 
stopped and the policies made paid-up for up to 13 months. After this time the premiums 
would need to be re-started and the arrears cleared, and until the premiums were restarted, 
they would be deducted from the fund value. This is what happened.
A year later Miss M contacted Aviva to tell them she still could not afford to re-start the 
premiums and offered to pay a minimum of £1 per month to keep the policies running. Aviva 
said this wasnt possible under the terms and conditions. Aviva explained what the surrender 
values were for each policy and said that once the fund values reached a point where they 
werent enough to cover the premiums, the cover would cease. 
Miss M complained to Aviva that they hadnt treated her fairly. Aviva didnt agree with Miss M 
and explained theyd taken the premiums from the fund values as agreed. Aviva said the 
terms and conditions of the policy meant that the options open to Miss M were to surrender 
the policies, reduce the level of cover and re-start the premiums at a lower level or she could 
continue to pay the premiums from the funds until the funds could no longer sustain them. 
Miss M wasnt happy with the response from Aviva and brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator looked into things for her and thought Aviva 
hadnt treated Miss M unfairly and had acted in line with the terms of the policies. Miss M 
didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides her complaint. The 
case has been passed on to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I apologise its taken several months for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint, and I 
empathise with the position Miss M found herself in when her income was severely affected 
by Covid-19. However, Ive decided Aviva didnt do anything significantly wrong and I wont 
be asking them to do anything else. I will now explain why.
When Miss M contacted Aviva in April 2020 and told them she had no regular income to pay 
the premiums on her policies, I would have expected Aviva to take into account her personal 
circumstances and provide a clear explanation of what she could do. Im satisfied that in 
April 2020 Aviva explained the policies could be made fully paid-up and that the cost of the 
cover could be paid from the fund values within each policy. Aviva explained the policy could 
re-start within 12 months of it being made paid-up if Miss M re-started the premiums and 
paid any arrears. Unfortunately, it seems the option to pay the premiums from the funds 
within the policies was most likely the only option open to Miss M at the time because her 
income had been significantly impacted by Covid-19. I dont think what Aviva did at this time 
was unreasonable as no one knew how long the cover would need to be funded this way.
Miss M spoke with Aviva in June 2020 as shed received cancellation letters. Aviva re-
affirmed the premiums would be deducted from the funds until they ran out. 
When Miss M called Aviva in April 2021, she explained she was only in receipt of state 
benefits and was unable to pay the premiums. Although Miss M offered to pay £1 per month 
to keep the policies in place, Aviva said this wasnt an option as the policies were due to 
lapse. The funds were lower, and the cover provided was in danger of ending and Aviva told 
Miss M the policies were due to lapse if premiums werent re-started. Aviva provided 
surrender values for each policy and told Miss M she could reduce the level of cover on each 
of the policies, which in turn would reduce the premiums.
Miss M feels Aviva didnt do enough to support or help her. In this case Im satisfied Aviva 
acted positively and sympathetically, and it wasnt unfair that Aviva required the premiums 
shed missed to be repaid before they could re-instate the policy. Aviva considered the 
options available within the terms and conditions of the policies and Miss Ms circumstances 
at the time. The policy terms and conditions say the policy will lapse after 13 months if 
premiums were not paid. I cannot tell Aviva they should do anything differently, regardless of 
whether the premiums had been paid from the funds. 
To re-instate the policy Miss M would have needed to pay the premiums shed missed. I 
empathise with Miss M that she could not do this at the time, and I understand shes upset 
she paid in £38,000 into the policies and now the cover is no longer provided. However, the 
policies provided cover throughout the time the premiums were being paid, including the 
time when the premiums were being deducted from the fund value. And the options Aviva 
provided Miss M in April 2021 were the only options the policy terms and conditions allowed.
My final decision
Ive decided that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt treat Miss M unfairly in the 
circumstances and I wont be asking them to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman