DRN-3832031
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services 
(Alphera).
What happened
In January 2021 Mr L took out a hire purchase agreement with Alphera for a used car. The 
car was just over three years old and had travelled approximately 57,500 miles. The cash 
price was £24,630. Under the terms of the agreement, this was repayable in 48 monthly 
instalments of £444.62, followed by an optional final payment of £8,575 if Mr L decided to 
keep the car. 
Mr L has told us he was unable to drive the car much due to COVID-19 restrictions. He says 
he also underwent surgery in February 2021, which meant he couldnt drive for around eight 
weeks.
Mr L says that, on 6 June 2021, after covering around 1,100 miles, a warning light appeared 
on the dashboard. He says the car began to lose power and release blue smoke. 
Mr L says he drove the car to the nearest manufacturers garage, but they didnt have any 
availability until a week later. After booking the car in at this garage, he was told they didnt 
have the necessary equipment to look into the issue. Mr L arranged for the car to be 
recovered to another garage further away from his home. That garage couldnt look at the 
car until 30 June 2021. 
Mr L has told us that it took the garage a total of ten weeks to complete diagnostic testing, 
which identified faults with the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) and the Selective Catalytic 
Reduction converter (SRC). Mr L says he was also told the car hadnt been serviced, even 
though there was a service stamp in the service log.
Mr L paid a total of £9,158.45 to complete the service and repairs on the car. After it had 
been repaired, Mr L decided to sell the car. He says his family live some distance away and 
he was worried the car might break down on the journey. 
Mr L raised a complaint with Alphera on 6 November 2021. They responded saying they 
were unable to uphold the complaint because Mr L had paid for repairs and sold the car 
before giving them an opportunity to investigate his concerns about it.  They offered Mr L 
£3,000 towards the repair cost as a gesture of goodwill, with no admission of liability. 
Dissatisfied with Alpheras response, Mr L brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt think the car had been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr L, so he thought Alphera should cover the cost of the repair. He noted that Mr L hadnt 
been able to use the car between June and September 2021 due to it not being of 
satisfactory quality. So, he said Mr L should also receive a refund of the payments hed 
made during this time. 
The investigator said that, although the service log had been stamped, he thought the 
service either hadnt been completed or components were missed. So, he said Alphera 
should reimburse Mr L the cost of the service. He also thought they should refund Mr L the 
cost of having the car transported to the garage, on production of a valid receipt for this. 
The investigator felt Alphera should pay Mr L £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused due to the faults with the car. And he said Alphera should 
remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ls credit file. 
Alphera disagreed. They said they didnt think it was fair that Mr L should ask for a refund 
after having the repairs carried out. They said the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) states 
they should be allowed one opportunity to repair a fault - and Mr L hadnt advised them of 
the issues he was having. They said they also hadnt authorised the repair, as legal owner of 
the car at the time. 
Alphera increased their offer to 50% of the cost of the repair, along with the rest of the 
recompense the investigator had recommended. As they didnt agree with our investigators 
view, the case has come to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Ls complaint is about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into Mr Ls concerns about Alphera.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of those goods is 
satisfactory.
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the 
relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, 
mileage, and history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was just over three years old and had travelled 
approximately 57,500 miles when it was supplied to Mr L. It cost £24,630, which is 
significantly less than it wouldve cost when it was new. I dont think a reasonable person 
would have the same standards for this car as they would a newer one with less mileage. 
I dont think a buyer would expect the car to be in perfect condition - I think theyd probably 
expect some parts of the car to have suffered a bit of wear and tear. But I do think theyd still 
expect it to be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied - and to be 
able to drive the car for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
Was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L?
(i) ServicingMr L has told us that the car was sold to him on the understanding that it had been fully 
serviced - and that the service booklet had been stamped to show a service had been 
carried out. 
Ive seen no supporting evidence to confirm what the dealer said to Mr L, or what the service 
booklet showed. Ive seen evidence from the garage that carried out the repairs indicating 
the car hadnt had a recent service, and that Mr L paid for this to be done.
Servicing is a routine maintenance expense, which is to be expected with any vehicle. In the 
absence of supporting evidence showing Mr L was promised a particular level of servicing 
had previously been carried out, Im not persuaded that Alphera are liable for the cost of 
servicing the car.  
(ii) Failure of the DPF and SCR 
It isnt disputed that faults were found with this car. Ive seen a copy of the invoice Mr L was 
given for the cars visit to the garage on 30 June 2021, which says:
Removed DPF unit & found exit melted
Unable to inspect SCR CAT  removed and confirmed due to internal failure  collapsed 
inside. 
The invoice records the cars mileage to have been 58,293, so I can see Mr L had only had 
around 1,000 miles use of the car by the time this problem occurred. Ive also seen a copy 
of an email from the garage dated 22 October 2021, giving further information about their 
diagnosis of the fault. It says:
because the SCR CAT was damaged/melted this blocked the exhaust gas flow 
causing excessive heat increase at the DPF exit in turn melting the DPF.
..in our option the damage is long term as the vehicle wouldnt of tried to do that many 
DPF regenerations in 1100 miles.
Having thought about the evidence from the garage that diagnosed the problem - and the 
amount of use Mr L had had from the car up to that point - I find it most likely that this issue 
was either already present or developing when Alphera supplied it. 
I consider this to be a significant fault, because Ive seen evidence showing a warning light 
came on, the car began to lose power and release blue smoke. So, I dont consider the car 
to have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L. 
Putting things right
(i) Cost of repairs
The CRA says that, where the goods supplied arent of satisfactory quality, the consumer 
has the right to require the business to carry out a repair. Alphera say it wouldnt be fair for 
them to cover the full cost of the repair carried out by the garage Mr L had chosen, because 
he hadnt made Alphera aware of the issues with the car or given them an opportunity to 
help him. Ive considered this point.
Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that repair was a suitable option 
for putting things right. Alphera have offered to contribute 50% towards the cost of the repair. But Ive seen no supporting evidence to show how this figure was arrived at, or why Alphera 
consider this to be a fair proportion of the repair invoice for them to have to pay. 
In the absence of more specific evidence about this, Im not persuaded that it would be 
unfair for Alphera to cover the amount Mr L paid for the repair. So, I think they should 
reimburse him the repair costs shown on the invoice dated 16 September 2021.
Alphera have accepted the rest of our investigators recommendations. For completeness, Ill 
deal with these very briefly.
(ii) Recovery cost and loss of use of the car
Alphera agree that Mr L should be reimbursed for the cost of transporting the car to the 
garage, and that he should receive a refund of the payments he made during the period 
in which he was unable to use the car. I think thats fair.
I think Mr L was unable to use the car between 6 June and 16 September 2021. I say this 
because Mr L has told us that the problem occurred on 6 June 2021, but it took some 
time to book the car in to a garage that could diagnose the problem. Mr L says it took the 
garage around 10 weeks to find the fault. Ive seen that the invoice is dated 16 
September 2021. So, I think it most likely that this was the date the repair was completed. 
(iii) Distress and inconvenience
I can see Mr L has suffered some distress and inconvenience due to the problems with 
the car. He had to find a garage with the correct diagnostic equipment and arrange for the 
car to be recovered there. Alphera had agreed to pay Mr L £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused, which I think is fair.
Mr L says this whole process has made him feel ill, to the point that he had to part-
exchange the car because he no longer felt safe in it. Hes described the despair he felt 
when faced with a repair bill of over £9,100 for a car that hed hoped would be the car of 
his dreams.
I can appreciate how disappointing this experience must have been for Mr L. But I do 
think some of the distress and inconvenience hes suffered might have been avoided if 
hed complained to the dealer or finance company when the issues first arose - and given 
them an opportunity to put things right for him. So, Im not persuaded that a higher award 
is appropriate here. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services to:
Reimburse Mr L the cost of recovering the car to the garage, on production of a valid 
receipt or invoice.
Reimburse Mr L the cost of the repairs shown in the invoice dated 16 September 
2021.
Refund the payments Mr L made for the period between 6 June and 16 September 
2021, when he was unable to use the car.
Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ls credit file.
Pay Mr L £100 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused due to being 
supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L sent a copy of the receipt for the cost of having the car recovered to the garage. He 
said he had no further evidence or information to add.
Alphera said they felt they were being punished for an issue that they were never given an 
opportunity to resolve. They highlighted the fact that my provisional decision recognised that 
some of the distress and inconvenience Mr L had suffered might have been avoided if he'd 
complained to the dealer or finance company when the issue first arose and given them the 
opportunity to put things right for him.  
Alphera said they didnt feel they were innocent here, as they understood that a reasonable 
person wouldnt expect a car to fail and to be faced with a huge repair bill. But they felt Mr L 
should also accept a level of responsibility for not allowing the lender and dealer an 
opportunity to support him. They said they may have been able to get a cheaper repair done 
and also provide a courtesy car while repairs were taking place. Alphera said they felt their 
offer of 50% of the repairs recognised that both parties shared some of the blame for what 
went wrong here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both parties for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. But Ive 
seen no new evidence to persuade me that I should change my mind. 
I appreciate Alphera feel very strongly that they should have been given an opportunity to 
put things right when Mr L discovered the fault with the car. They say they may have been 
able to get a cheaper repair. But Ive seen no supporting evidence of this. In the absence of 
specific evidence showing Alphera would have paid less if theyd been able to arrange the 
repair themselves, I remain of the view that it wouldnt be unfair for Alphera to reimburse the 
amount Mr L paid.
I dont consider my finding as to the repair cost to be inconsistent with my approach to the 
amount of compensation Mr L should receive for the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered.  
Mr L has told us that having to pay out over £9,100, after recently retiring due to ill health, 
caused him a huge amount of stress and anxiety. He says this caused him to feel physically 
unwell. But as I explained in my provisional decision, when thinking about the amount of 
compensation thats appropriate here I think its relevant to bear in mind that some of this 
stress and anxiety may have been avoided if Mr L had complained to Alphera sooner. 
I do think Mr L suffered some distress and inconvenience due to the car breaking down and 
needing to be recovered to a garage for repair. And I consider £100 compensation to be fair 
for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services to:Reimburse Mr L the cost of recovering the car to the garage.
Reimburse Mr L the cost of the repairs shown in the invoice dated 16 September 
2021.
Refund the payments Mr L made for the period between 6 June and 16 September 
2021, when he was unable to use the car.
Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ls credit file.
Pay Mr L £100 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused due to being 
supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
If Alphera consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mr L how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr L a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if hes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman