DRN-4214713
The complaint
Mr K complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited, who Ill call Shawbrook, were unreasonable
to reject a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(section 75). Hes also upset with Shawbrooks handling of his complaint.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr K entered into a contract with a company Ill call A to supply and fit a
front door and frame.
He is unhappy with the quality of the door and says its not aligned properly, is jamming,
sticking, paint is coming away from where its sealed, and the lock needs to be regularly
oiled to make it work properly. He also says the door was misrepresented to him as he
wasnt told it was a slam shut design.
Mr K complained to Shawbrook, and they consulted the supplier who visited the property in
December 2021 and in January 2022 but couldnt find fault with the door. So, Shawbrook
didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K referred his complaint to this service and our investigator thought it should be upheld
and that Shawbrook should arrange for the door to be repaired or replaced. She also thought
Shawbrook hadnt handled Mr Ks complaint well and suggested they pay him £100 in
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Shawbrook disagreed. They said the complainant wasnt an eligible one and they explained
there was no fault found with the door. They therefore asked for a final decision by an
ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest
Shawbrook have been unreasonable to reject his section 75 claim. But I do think they could
have handled the claim better and Im expecting to ask them to pay some compensation.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, it might be
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Eligible complainant
I think theres been some confusion here as the complaint was originally set up in Mr Ks
partners name and, as its only Mr K who has a regulated credit agreement with Shawbrook
to fund the supply of the door, his partner wouldnt be an eligible complainant under the rules
that govern this Service. But towards the end of last year our investigator rectified that issue
and recorded Mr K as the consumer in this complaint. She advised Shawbrook of that and
Im persuaded that Mr K is an eligible complainant and is entitled to escalate his complaint to
this service.
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to
enter into the contract.
Mr K says he was unaware that the door was of a slam shut design where the latch retracts
on contact. Ive reviewed the contractual paperwork and I cant see that any specific latch
design was offered. Im not therefore persuaded there is evidence a false statement of fact
was made and on that basis I dont think Shawbrook were unreasonable to reject that claim.
Breach of contract
If the door wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied or if the work to fit it wasnt completed
with reasonable care and skill, I would think there had been a breach of contract.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation (the Consumer Rights Act 2015) gives the
business one opportunity to repair the goods. The evidence supplied by Shawbrook, and A
suggests that there were attempts to rectify issues in August 2020 and in December 2021.
So, if there was evidence those repairs had been unsuccessful the relevant legislation would
support the replacement of the door or its rejection.
Ive not, however, been provided with sufficient evidence there is a fault with the door. Whilst
I understand Mr Ks testimony, the supplier has visited the property and explained that they
cant find fault with the goods. Whilst the slam shut design may mean the door has to be
pulled, or slammed, shut, I dont think that in itself is evidence of a fault and Mr K hasnt
provided any evidence to counter that assertion e.g. an expert opinion from an independent
source.On that basis I dont think Shawbrook have been unreasonable to reject his section 75 claim.
Shawbrooks handling of the section 75 claim
I dont, however, think Shawbrook have handled this claim well. Their system notes show
that they failed to log the complaint for Mr K when he called them in October 2020, and I
think thats delayed matters for Mr K. In those circumstances, I think Shawbrook should pay
Mr K £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to partially uphold this complaint and to tell Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay
Mr K £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Further comments
Shawbrook didnt provide any further comments for me to consider but Mr K did, he said:
I am quite disappointed that we are still at the same level of compensation as we were a 
few months ago, which at the time Shawbrook refused to acknowledge nor has bothered to 
pay.
Our level of distress should be compensated more than that as this has dragged on for over 
3 years now and will continue until we can afford to get a new door.
When we purchased this door we told the salesman we were out during the night as we 
have a taxi business and most of our pickups are during the night ok and from the airport.
We were never told that this was a slam shut door.
Why would we want that when were out at these times as it would wake our neighbours.
The door frame seal is coming apart from the wall with the paint peeling which looks
horrendous.
Weve had the lock itself changed which is still sticking and weve been told to oil it every few
days. Why would you spend £2000 on a door to oil it every few days so the keys doesnt 
stick.
This whole experience dealing with (the supplier) and Shawbrook has been horrendous. We 
have been lied too and ignored for years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision that I cant see that any specific latch design was 
offered. Im not therefore persuaded there is evidence a false statement of fact was made 
So, whilst I understand Mr K isnt happy with the type of latch I dont think it would be fair to 
suggest that means the door was misrepresented or that its not been of satisfactory quality.
As the lock has been changed it also wouldnt be fair to suggest the new sticking lock is 
Shawbrooks responsibility and, as Ive not been provided with any independent expert 
evidence to counter the expert advice provided by the supplier, Im afraid Im not persuaded I have sufficient evidence to suggest Shawbrook were wrong not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Having considered the guidance this Service publishes on distress and inconvenience 
payments Im also not minded to increase the compenation I suggested in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
Ive not therefore, been provided with evidence that has led me to change my provisional 
decision and that now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint in part and tell Shawbrook Bank 
Limited to pay Mr K £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman