DRN-4180350
The complaint
Mr O complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited auctioned a gold ring he had pawned.
What happened
On 13 November 2021 Mr O pawned a gold ring under a regulated credit agreement with 
Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T). The agreement was to last for six months, and 
therefore it was to expire on 13 May 2022, unless the ring was redeemed earlier, or unless 
the agreement was renewed. H&T paid him £360. The ring was redeemable on payment of 
£575:78, and therefore the interest was £215:78.
Mr O did not redeem the ring within the six months. On 13 May 2022 he made a payment of 
£100. Then on 27 July 2022 he made another payment of £100. He says that one of those 
dates, H&T told him that the agreement was extended to November of that year. But in 
August the ring was sold at auction.
Mr O complained to H&T, and then to our service. H&T said it had been entitled to sell the 
ring, because the £100 payment he had made in July had not been enough to either redeem 
the ring or renew the agreement. It said it had written to Mr O before the auction to remind 
him that the ring could be sold. The July payment was refunded to him in December 2022. 
(Unfortunately the May payment has been overlooked by everyone until now.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that there was no evidence that the 
pawn agreement had been extended by six months. She said that Mr O had been a 
customer of H&T for several years, and so he should be familiar with how pawn agreements 
work by now. She found that H&T had written to him to tell him that the ring was going to be 
auctioned, and that it had been entitled to sell the ring because his payment of £100 in July 
had not been enough to redeem it or to renew the agreement.
Mr O did not accept that opinion. He claimed to have been a victim of fraud and theft. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that it has no merit and so I do not uphold it. I will explain why, but it is 
essentially for the same reasons as the investigator.
As Ive said, Mr O needed to either redeem the ring, or renew the agreement, by the end of 
the six months term of the agreement, which was 13 May 2022. He did neither. He made two 
payments of £100, one on that day and the second over two months later, on 27 July. That 
was certainly not enough to redeem the ring or to renew the agreement, and so I do not think 
it is plausible that anyone at H&T told him that the agreement would be extended by another 
six months. For that reason, I do not accept that he had until November 2022 to redeem the 
ring, and I find that on 13 May 2022 H&T became entitled to sell it.
H&T wrote to Mr O on 13 April 2022, a month before the agreement was due to end, to 
remind him that the agreement was coming to an end. It wrote to him again on 22 July, a 
month before the auction, to tell him that it was about to auction the ring. And it wrote to him 
again on 23 August, the day after the auction, to tell him it had sold the ring. I have checked 
that Mr Os address on the pawn agreement is correct, and it is; and of course he was a 
regular customer of H&T, so Im satisfied that all of these letters were sent to the right 
address. (If any of them were lost in the post, that would not be H&Ts fault.) H&T therefore 
fulfilled its legal responsibility to tell Mr O that it was selling the ring.
After that, H&T refunded the July payment of £100, because in consequence of the sale this 
payment had now become a surplus amount under section 121(3) of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. H&T was required to do that. Mr O has complained that he had not intended this 
payment to be a surplus payment, and of course it wasnt, but thats what it became once the 
ring was sold. As Ive said, it wasnt enough to prevent the sale, and so H&T was allowed to 
sell it. I think it is regrettable that Mr O has accused H&T of acting in bad faith, because 
there was no evidence to support that allegation.
There has been one error in this case: H&T should have refunded the May payment too. 
I pointed this out to H&T, and it agreed. It says that if Mr O gets in touch, it will arrange for 
this payment to be refunded to him as soon as possible. The phone number he should call to 
arrange this is provided in the covering letter which accompanies this decision.
Apart from that oversight, which Im sure was unintentional and which did not contribute to 
the ring being forfeited, I find that H&T has otherwise acted entirely in accordance with the 
law and with the pawn agreement.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr O to contact H&T to arrange the refund of the outstanding £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023. What he decides about that will not affect his 
entitlement to the £100 refund.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman