DRN-2317737
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has declined to cover costs which have been 
incurred by him following a fire at a property he owns.
What happened
Mr M insures a property he owns with Ageas.. He lets out the property and he was informed 
of a fire at the property. He sought to claim on the policy for costs hed been informed he had 
to pay to replace an electrical supply at the property.
After carrying out investigations, Ageas declined to cover the costs claimed by Mr M. It said 
that the costs incurred werent covered by the policy, as the reason Mr M had been asked to 
pay these costs was because the electrical supply to the property had been tampered with 
and the costs were to put this right.
Mr M complained to Ageas about this. He was also unhappy as he said he understood from 
his correspondence with loss adjusters that the claim was covered. He also said claims 
made by his tenants following the incident had been covered by their insurers.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think Ageas had done 
anything wrong. She thought that the policy didnt cover the circumstances described, and 
that the correspondence sent by the loss adjuster didnt say that the claim was covered. She 
said we couldnt comment on the other insurers decisions. Mr M didnt accept this, and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main cost that Mr M is seeking to recover from Ageas on this insurance policy is the 
amount charged by the power supplier to the property to replace the supply, meter and 
boards which were damaged. But the evidence I have is that the only the reason the supplier 
charged Mr M (as the property owner) was because the original supply had been tampered 
with (theres no suggestion that Mr M was in any way aware of, or responsible for, this). If an 
untampered supply had been damaged, Mr M wouldnt have been charged.
Theres no reference in the policy terms and conditions to anything which could extend to 
cover such a situation. I think it was reasonable for Ageas to rely on the information from the 
power supplier which suggested that the supply had been tampered with, and so conclude 
that the costs associated with replacing the supply werent covered by this policy.
Ageas has said that it would review cover for other damage to the property caused by the 
fire. It appears to be accepted that this was limited to some wood panelling around the meter 
board which has been burnt. Its been observed that the policy has a £500 excess which is 
likely to be more than the cost of repairing this damage but Mr M has been invited to submit 
a claim for consideration if the costs exceed this.
Mr M also says that at a meeting with the loss adjuster he was informed that the claim was 
covered. Ageas says that the loss adjuster said the matter would be subject to further 
enquiries. I cant see that Mr M raised his concern that the loss adjuster had told him the 
claim was covered until after Ageas said it wouldnt cover the costs associated with the 
power supply. If he had been told that the claim was covered, I think its reasonable that he 
would have queried why further enquiries were being made following this visit.  In the 
absence of any contemporaneous notes or record of this meeting to confirm that Mr M was 
told the claim was covered, Im not satisfied that I can safely conclude that Mr M was 
categorically told the claim would be covered. 
Mr M also refers to an email sent by the loss adjuster which he says confirmed the case was 
covered. Having reviewed this email, Im not persuaded this was the case. The email refers 
to policy liability having been confirmed. This followed an enquiry as to whether the value 
of the property insured was adequate given the loss adjusters enquiries. But the email goes 
on to say that enquiries would proceed to establish why the power supplier had charged Mr 
M. I dont think its reasonable to say that this email confirmed cover for the claim. The email 
stated that further enquiries were going to be undertaken.
Im aware that Mr M has said that tenants at the property have had cover for claims theyve 
made following this incident confirmed. Hes also said that the same loss adjusters have 
been involved in assessing those claims. But Im concerned here only with Ageas actions in 
respect of Mr Ms policy. I cant comment on the actions of other insurers. The loss adjusters 
will have been appointed by the insurers to assess the individual claims. Ive concluded, for 
the reasons Ive given above, that Ageas acted reasonably in the circumstances of Mr Ms 
claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman