DRN-3199151
The complaint
Mr D complains that Jardine Cars Limited, trading as Jardine Motors, didnt tell him that he 
was entitled not to pay VAT because of his disability when he entered into a hire purchase 
agreement for a car to be supplied to him.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr D under a hire purchase agreement with a finance provider 
that he signed in March 2019. The dealer and credit broker for the agreement was Jardine 
Motors. The price of the car was £31,875, VAT of £6,375 was added to that amount so the 
total price of the car was £38,470, Mr D made an advance payment of £11,699 so the 
amount of credit provided to him was £26,771. He agreed to repay that by 47 monthly 
payments of £364.36 and there was a final payment of £14,368.75.
He then paid £2,640 to a third party for the car to be adapted so that it was suitable for him. 
He says that he was told by the third party that he was entitled to a zero rated VAT supply of 
an adapted motor vehicle so he contacted the finance provider and Jardine Motors. Jardine 
Motors said that Mr D was in an informed position regarding the terms of his finance 
agreement and that it doesnt provide advice in respect of finance. Mr D wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that the car 
was to be adapted after it was supplied to Mr D and he was unsure whether the car would 
have been eligible to be zero-rated for VAT when it was supplied to him. He said that he 
couldnt see that Jardine Cars was obliged to discuss the scheme with Mr D or that it 
committed an omission if it didnt discuss the scheme. He said that the car was supplied to 
Mr D by the finance provider and that Jardine Motors was the broker.
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that his complaint is based on the lack of salesman training and equality for disabled people. 
He says that Jardine Motors knew that he was purchasing the car with the sole intention of 
having it adapted to enable him to drive again and lead as normal a life as possible but it 
didnt provide him with the HMRC form required for him to make a declaration for zero rated 
VAT supply of an adapted motor vehicle. He says that hes entitled to a VAT refund which 
wont cost Jardine Motors anything.
Jardine Motors says that it was the finance provider that supplied the car to Mr D and it 
always charges VAT to the finance provider whether or not the customer is disabled and its 
then for the finance provider to decide whether to zero rate it. But it also says that the 
finance provider has reviewed all documentation and correspondence in relation to this 
matter and has said that, as the adaptation was made after the car was supplied to Mr D, it 
doesnt satisfy the requirements for the relief to apply so VAT was correctly charged. It also 
says that its the responsibility of the purchaser to volunteer VAT free status information prior 
to the point of sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mr D entered into a hire purchase agreement with the finance provider for it to supply 
the car to him and his payments, including the VAT for the car, were made to the 
finance provider;
Mr D selected the car from Jardine Motors and it helped him with the hire purchase 
agreement  but it then sold the car to the finance provider for the finance provider to 
supply it to Mr D under the hire purchase agreement;
the declaration for zero rated VAT supply of an adapted motor vehicle says that the 
customer should hand the completed form to the person that they are purchasing the 
vehicle from and the vehicle supplier will retain the form and send a copy to HMRC 
as evidence for selling the vehicle with relief from VAT  but its the customer that 
must make the declaration and the completed form must be given to the vehicle 
supplier  which in this case is the finance provider;
I consider that it would have been helpful for Jardine Motors to have told Mr D about 
the scheme and to have provided him with the form for him to make the declaration  
but Ive seen no evidence to show that it was required to do so;
Mr D has provided evidence to show that HMRC has explained that, as VAT is a self-
assessing tax, its the responsibility of the supplier of the car to ensure that the 
correct price is paid  but Jardine Motors says that the finance provider has reviewed 
all documentation and correspondence in relation to this matter and has said that, as 
the adaptation was made after the car was supplied to Mr D, it doesnt satisfy the 
requirements for the relief to apply so VAT was correctly charged  and Im not 
persuaded that Jardine Motors acted incorrectly in these circumstances;
this complaint is made against Jardine Motors so I havent considered whether or not 
any complaint that Mr D might make against the finance provider would be upheld  
but, if he hasnt already done so, he can complain about these events to the finance 
provider and then, if hes not satisfied with its response, he may be able to make a 
separate complaint to this service about the finance provider;
Mr D says that his complaint is in part based on equality for disabled people  but Im 
not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Jardine Motors has treated 
Mr D less favourably than it would treat other customers and the circumstances in 
which a car should be zero rated for VAT are determined by HMRC and not by 
Jardine Motors;
I sympathise with Mr D for the difficulties that hes experienced in these 
circumstances and for the VAT that hes paid when he clearly considers that the 
supply of the car should be zero rated for VAT, but Im not persuaded that he's 
provided enough evidence to show that Jardine Motors has acted incorrectly or 
unfairly in its dealings with him; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Jardine Motors to 
reimburse Mr D for the VAT that was included in the total price of the car, to pay him 
any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman