DRN-3927108
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
handled their claim made on their motor insurance policy and the amount it paid to settle the 
claim. They want an additional £3,000 and compensation for their losses, stress and upset. 
Mr M is a named driver on Mrs Ms policy. 
What happened
Mrs M and her family were involved in an accident with another driver and made a claim on 
their policy. Mrs M was unhappy that they had to wait a long time for recovery during the 
heatwave. She said they had to organise their own courtesy car and lost their personal 
belongings. She said she spent long periods on hold trying to contact LV and she was 
unhappy with its lack of support. And then she was unhappy with the settlement it offered 
and the delay in settling her finance agreement. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
amount LV had paid Mrs M in settlement of her claim was fair and reasonable and in 
keeping with our approach. He thought LV hadnt caused delays in the payment and had 
paid the finance company and Mrs M in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. He 
thought LV had paid Mrs M £200 for her personal belongings in keeping with the policys 
terms. He thought there had been service failings. But he thought LVs offer of £200 
compensation for these was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs M replied that she wanted an Ombudsmans review. So her complaint has come to me 
for a final decision. She remained unhappy with the valuation of her car, the delay in 
payment, and that she had to continue paying her finance company in the meantime. She 
was also unhappy that LV hadnt pursued Mr Ms personal injury claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has raised a number of concerns about how her claim has been dealt with by LV. But 
I can only consider here those matters she has already raised with LV and given it 
opportunity to respond. Our Investigator has already explained that she must first raise her 
further concerns with LV. If she remains unhappy with its response, then she can bring her 
complaint to us. LV has directed her to its solicitors to address her concerns about medical 
assessment and treatment for Mr M. 
I can see that Mrs M was unhappy that she couldnt replace her car with one in the same 
condition with LVs settlement. But her policy provides for the cars market value in the case 
of its total loss. The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We 
dont provide valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought LVs settlement offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive reviewed how 
he came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked in the motor trade guides we use for 
cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mrs Ms car at the date of its 
loss. 
The valuations he found were all lower than the £15,300 that LV had offered. I cant see that 
the extras added any value. So Im satisfied that LVs offer was fair and reasonable and I 
dont require LV to increase this.
I can see that Mrs M and her family had a long wait to be recovered after the accident. I can 
understand that this must have been upsetting for them. They were without a courtesy car 
for a day, albeit LV provided a car within the policy terms. And Mrs M spent long times on 
hold calling LV. 
LV offered her £200 compensation for this trouble and upset. I think thats in keeping with 
our published guidelines for the level of impact this had. So I think that LVs compensation 
was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs M was unhappy that LV delayed paying her claim and this could have caused her 
difficulties with her finance company. But I cant see that LV was responsible for any delay. I 
can see that LV made Mrs M an increased offer and she responded a week later to accept it 
and to give permission for LV to contact her finance company. LV then paid the settlement to 
her and the finance company, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions as set out on 
page 9 of the policy booklet:
If your car belongs to someone else, or is under a hire purchase or leasing agreement, well 
pay the legal owner. 
Mrs M had a finance agreement to buy her car and finance was owing. So the legal owner 
was the finance company and LV paid the settlement to it. So I cant say that it did anything 
wrong in this. 
Mrs M was unhappy that she had to keep making payments to her finance company during 
the claim. But I cant say that LV is responsible for Mrs Ms contract with her finance 
company. And I cant see that it made any avoidable delays that caused her any loss. 
After the accident, the car was recovered and Mrs Ms personal belongings were removed, 
but not all could be accounted for. So LV offered Mrs M £200 to cover these items. This is in 
keeping with the policy terms and conditions for personal belongings. So I cant say that this 
was unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman