DRN-3698930
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Nationwide Building Society didnt credit a cash deposit to his 
account.
What happened
Mr T explained that he deposited £450 in cash at a Nationwide ATM, using the provided 
envelope. He said that the screen showed that everything was OK, he got a receipt, and 
there were no signs that anything was wrong. However, when he later checked his account 
he found that the cash had not been credited to him.
Nationwide explained that the envelope Mr T had deposited was empty, and this was 
double-checked and confirmed by a manager. They also brought in an engineer, who 
inspected the machine and found no missing cash or any issues that needed addressing. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I can appreciate why Mr T would like to see CCTV footage. That kind of footage is only 
kept for about a month  so Im afraid its much too late for me to be able to view it now. And 
if its any consolation, the footage was very unlikely to have been detailed enough to show 
what was or wasnt in the envelope. Further, I dont have any jurisdiction over the placement 
of CCTV cameras, so I cant consider Mr Ts arguments about where the camera was facing. 
With that said, Ive looked at all the evidence that is available, and thought carefully about 
whats most likely to have happened here.
The deposit envelope was double-checked by both a regular staff member and a manager, 
who signed the envelope to confirm there was no money in it.
The machine was then thoroughly checked by an engineer, who found no cash stuck inside, 
and who didnt find any problems with the machine or anything requiring further action.
I can see that other customers were able to use the ATM both before and after Mr T, and 
I understand that the machine had no other reported issues. 
If the cash had got stuck in the machine, then Id expect the ATM to have had £450 or so of 
extra cash in it afterwards. But there was no extra cash in it afterwards. And from what I can 
see, all the cashiers tills balanced.
Mr T suggested that a staff member could have taken the money. And I appreciate hes just 
arguing his case. But thats a very serious accusation of a very serious crime. And I have 
absolutely no evidence which shows or substantiates that a staff member did anything wrong 
here. So I have no fair basis on which to conclude that a staff member stole any money.
So the evidence supports the possibility that Mr T didnt put any cash in the envelope  
which is a mistake that customers do make sometimes. Whereas I dont have any evidence 
which substantiates that Mr T definitely put in £450, or that anything went wrong on 
Nationwides end. And so I dont have a fair basis on which to tell Nationwide to credit £450 
to Mr T. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr T 
to receive. But given the evidence I have and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman