DRN-3359505
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
responded to issues he had with several items he purchased using his credit card.
What happened
Mr J purchased several items from a retailer (Retailer A) via four transactions on his credit 
card and no longer had a use for them. However, he had problems returning these to 
Retailer A who was not accepting returns at the time due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr J approached Barclaycard for help with getting his money back for the items. In 
summary, it responded to Mr J to say:
Retailer A was now accepting returns via an extended returns window
a chargeback was unlikely to have succeeded in these circumstances - so it didnt 
raise one
However, Mr J is unhappy with how Barclaycard handled things. In summary, he feels it 
could have done more to help him get his money back and it caused him to miss out on the 
opportunity to return the goods.
Our investigator looked into the issue. In summary he said:
Barclaycard were not acting unreasonably by not pursuing a chargeback as Mr J had 
no valid grounds to raise one; and
he didnt think Retailer A had acted in such a way that Barclaycard should have 
refunded Mr J via Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75)
During the course of our investigation Mr J clarified that he was not in possession of all the 
items he purchased from Retailer A and most of these were never collected. He contacted 
Retailer A about this who issued him with a refund for the uncollected items. However, Mr J 
is still unhappy with the way Barclaycard handled things and wants an ombudsman to look at 
the matter again.
Before making my decision I wrote to Mr J to clarify a couple of points and ask him for 
comments if he wished to make any. Mr J has not added any further comment so I have 
proceeded to my decision on the basis of the information I have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its final response letter Barclaycard confirmed it had refunded Mr J £35 for a transaction 
with a different retailer and £25 due to a problem he had with submitting documents online to 
it. These matters appear to have been handled fairly and resolved, and as they do not 
appear to be in dispute I am not covering them in any further detail in my decision. Instead I 
am focusing on the central issue of Mr Js ongoing complaint, this being the transactions in 
relation to the items bought from Retailer A.
Should Barclaycard have raised a chargeback or upheld a Section 75 claim?
More information has come to light during the course of this complaint to show that Mr J did 
not collect most of the items he bought from Retailer A. Although Mr J has been refunded for 
these items he appears to be unhappy that Barclaycard did not do more to help him. In my 
view there might have been a case for Barclaycard to raise a chargeback or uphold a 
Section 75 complaint for the items which were never collected, and which Retailer A had 
failed to issue a refund for (until recently). I say this because Retailer As terms and 
conditions appear to promise to automatically refund the consumer for items not collected in 
21 days and this didnt happen.  
However, based on what I have seen of the initial contact notes and correspondence with 
Mr J and Barclaycard I dont think it would have been clear to Barclaycard that Mr J had not 
collected some items. It appeared that Mr J was simply unable to return those items in his 
possession. So I dont think it would be fair to say Barclaycard should have recognised this 
and acted on it.
Based on what Barclaycard were reasonably led to believe about the circumstances of Mr 
Js issue with Retailer A I do not think it was wrong for not raising a chargeback or upholding 
a Section 75 claim in the circumstances. I will explain why.
Chargeback
The chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a card payment to be 
refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute and effectively asks for the payment 
to be returned to the customer. 
While it is often good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback, the circumstances wont 
always be right to raise one. There are set grounds or dispute conditions set by the relevant 
card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed.
I have considered the relevant chargeback scheme rules that apply. After doing so I note the 
most relevant reason code here appears to be that in respect of cancelled or returned 
merchandise. However, at the time Mr J approached Barclaycard it not fit the apparent 
circumstances of his case. Notably because Mr J appeared to still be in possession of all the 
goods  and because Retailer A had not refused to apply its returns policy (it had simply 
deferred it). With this in mind any chargeback appeared to have no chance of success. It 
follows that Barclaycard were not unreasonable by not pursuing chargeback as a means of 
recovering Mr Js money.
Section 75 
Mr J used a credit card to pay for the goods from Retailer A which means that Section 75 is 
relevant to this case. Section 75 allows Mr J to hold Barclaycard responsible for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using the credit 
afforded here. However, there are certain technical criteria which have to be met for a 
Section 75 claim to be valid. These criteria relate to the cost of the goods or services, the 
parties to the transaction, or the way the payment was made.
I consider that the criteria for a valid Section 75 claim are in place  so I have gone on to 
consider if Retailer A breached its contract with Mr J.There is nothing to suggest the items were faulty  only that Mr J had decided he no longer 
wanted them. I note that the applicable terms of Retailer A in this situation allow Mr J to 
change his mind and return items within 30 days of purchase for a refund. However, 
because of issues surrounding the pandemic Retailer A suspended its return and refund 
policy temporarily (only allowing exchanges if considered essential). It informed Mr J to 
retain his goods and receipts until normal trading resumed.
Due to the circumstances surrounding the pandemic it is unclear if Retailer As initial actions 
were technically a breach of contract. However, it did appear to remedy the situation by 
extending the returns policy up until 23 August 2020. Based on when relevant restrictions on 
trading appear to have been lifted it would appear Mr J wouldve had at least 6 weeks to 
return the goods (more than the contractual returns policy allows). With this in mind I dont 
think it is fair and reasonable to say that Barclaycard should have done any more in respect 
of a Section 75 claim.
Mr J has said Barclaycards handling of the matter was poor and caused him to miss out on 
an opportunity to return goods. He said he didnt receive its response letter dated 14 August 
2020 telling him about Retailer As extended returns window  and by the time Barclaycard 
sent a follow up the returns window had closed. He also noted that Barclaycard had 
refunded him for a transaction with another retailer so he couldnt understand why it didnt do 
the same for those payments to Retailer A. 
Considering the challenges surrounding the pandemic at the time it is understandable that 
Barclaycards responses would not be as timely or tailored as Mr J might expect normally. It 
also might explain why there was potentially disruption to him receiving post. However, in 
any event (and in the particular circumstances here) I dont think Mr J could reasonably have 
relied on Barclaycard to inform him that Retailer A was accepting returns again. Retailer A 
had told customers that it would be doing so when normal trading had resumed, and by 
following the public updates Mr J would have reasonably been able to discover when he 
could return the goods again. 
Furthermore, I dont think that Barclaycard was unreasonable in treating the transactions 
with Retailer A differently to the £35 refund it made in relation to a transaction with another 
retailer. I note it said this refund was made on a goodwill basis, and I think it was able to 
make that commercial decision and treat other transactions with more scrutiny if it chose to 
do so.
Overall, there is nothing I have seen on this case that persuades me Barclaycard handled 
matters in such a way as to warrant further compensation. In conclusion, for the reasons I 
have given here I dont think that Barclaycard should do any more than it has already in 
relation to Mr Js complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman