DRN-2974540
The complaint
A complains about the quality of a van he has been financing through an agreement with 
Aldermore Bank Plc (Aldermore).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
A acquired his van under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the van should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Aldermore, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the van was supplied to A. The van here was 
about two and a half years old and had already completed 105,000. I think a reasonable 
person would expect a van of that mileage to be experiencing quite a bit of wear and tear 
and to consider many components could be reaching the end of their serviceable life.
I think its more likely the faults A now complains of have happened as a result of wear and 
tear than because of a fault that was present at the point of supply when Aldermore were 
responsible for the quality of the van. I say that because:
A has explained that hes needed to replace the water pump and water pump 
assembly sensor, but it seems that replacement was speculative in the hope it would 
resolve the issues with the van;
and, regardless, I dont think that can fairly be related to the recall notice from the 
manufacturer. That recall is to replace a fuse for a lower rated one because, in the 
unlikely event the run on water pump failed, the fuse wouldnt cut off power and the 
pump could overheat, melt and possibly catch fire. Ive not seen that the pump 
overheated;
the manufacturer havent accepted responsibility for the fault with As van and I think 
theyd be likely to if it was related to the recall;
A has been able to complete 7,000 miles in the van and I think that would be unlikely 
if there was a fault at the point of supply.
So, Im not persuaded this van was of unsatisfactory quality. I think its more likely the fault is 
the result of wear and tear and Im not therefore asking Aldermore to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman