DRN-2835558
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with her chargeback.
What happened
Mrs S says she paid about £615 for a repair to her ring to a jeweller I will call P whilst on 
holiday in Australia. But about 10 days later one of the diamonds fell out. Mrs S says she 
had returned home at that stage and obtained a report on the repair by a local jeweller that 
said the repair by P was not of a reasonable standard. She says she tried speaking to P 
about the issue and it admitted it made a mistake. Mrs S asked Nationwide to raise a 
chargeback when she says it was clear P wasnt prepared to sort matters out. She would like 
the payment refunded.
Nationwide says it didnt make a mistake and says P declined to take the matter to pre-
arbitration and told it that it had reached agreement with Mrs S by offering to either repair the 
ring or arrange for a local jeweller to do so. It says it has 10 days from pre-arbitration being 
declined to take matters further but says it didnt know until after that time period that P 
hadnt responded to Mrs S.
Mrs S had brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator 
thought the repair was significantly not as described and thought if the chargeback went to 
arbitration then it was likely Mrs S would have been successful. The investigator thought Mrs 
S had done what she could to sort matters out, by getting the report and thought if Mrs S 
knew that pre-arbitration had been declined would have asked Nationwide to take matters 
further. The investigator recommended Nationwide pay Mrs S £615 compensation.
Nationwide doesnt accept that view but accepts it sent a letter to Mrs S outside of the 10-
day time period after pre-arbitration was declined. It says it is for it to decide in any event to 
take matters further in those circumstances and says it unlikely Mrs S would have contacted 
it within the 10-day period. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint.
The chargeback rules are not set, as in the case, by Nationwide but by the card providers. It 
is a voluntary scheme with no guarantee of success. As a service we normally expect a bank 
or building society to raise a chargeback unless there is no reasonable prospect of success.
I have looked carefully at the documents provided by both sides and the photographs 
provided by Mrs S. There can be no doubt Mrs S paid for what I think was a significant 
amount of money for repairs to her engagement ring and I have seen the receipt. I also think 
on balance that P appears to have accepted fault here and offered to sort matters out which 
I think provides evidence of that. Im satisfied that Mrs S couldnt resolve matters with P and 
asked Nationwide to raise a chargeback which it did. Im also satisfied that Nationwide acted 
fairly at the stage and was trying to help Mrs S and was entitled to ask for further information 
from her.
The key issue here is that P told Nationwide it had offered to resolve matters with Mrs S and 
declined pre-arbitration. I appreciate in those circumstances Nationwide must abide by the 
chargeback time limit rules and is entitled to consider if it wishes to take matters forward. But 
I have no doubt that Nationwide made the decision not to proceed with the chargeback due 
to P telling it that it had offered to resolve the complaint directly with Mrs S. I think it likely on 
balance that if Nationwide had told Mrs S that, then it likely she would have asked 
Nationwide to take the matter to arbitration and more importantly told it that there was no 
such agreement with P.
Nationwide accepts that Mrs S couldnt make further representations to it as it sent her the 
letter outside of the 10-day time limit period. So, I think that Mrs S was prevented from 
making those representations, which would have been likely to have materially affected the 
chargeback. And it wasnt Mrs Ss fault that she was prevented from doing so. I appreciate 
Nationwide says Mrs S may not have made those representations in time even if it sent her 
the letter in time. But Im satisfied that Nationwide ought reasonably to be aware of the time 
limit rules and I also think it likely based on the evidence I have seen, that Mrs S would have 
made representations in time as its clear this was an issue, she had strong views about.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide could have done more to assist Mrs S and the result 
was that her chargeback was unfairly declined. I make clear that if Mrs S had been told she 
had 10 days to make further representations about what P said but didnt respond in time 
then I dont think Nationwide would have acted unfairly in these circumstances. But there is 
no dispute here that Nationwide didnt request further representations in time and in those 
circumstances Mrs Ss chargeback, which I think had every prospect of succeeding, was 
ended. 
Putting things right
I intend to order Nationwide to pay Mrs S the repair cost of £615.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mrs S £615 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman