DRN-3358791
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd lent irresponsibly when it approved his overdraft 
application. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr H applied for an overdraft with Monzo. Mr H gave a monthly income of 
£1,229 and Monzo used assumed outgoings of £890 a month in its affordability assessment. 
Monzo says it also carried out a credit search that didnt find any adverse information, like 
County Court Judgements (CCJs) or defaults. A £500 overdraft limit was approved. 
Mr H used the account for a little over a week. At that stage, the balance exceeded the £500 
overdraft limit. No credits were made and Monzo ultimately closed the account and recorded 
a default on Mr Ms credit file. 
Last year, Mr H complained that Monzo had lent irresponsibly. Mr H provided evidence to 
show he had several CCJs and other adverse credit at the time of his application. Monzo 
didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and said its credit searches hadnt identified any adverse 
credit in his name and that the overdraft was correctly approved. Monzo paid Mr H £75 for 
service issues when responding to his complaint. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Monzo had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr H 
asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says Monzo shouldve known he was unable to support further borrowing due to the 
CCJs and other adverse credit already recorded on his credit file at the time of his 
application. Ive reviewed everything Mr H has sent us and I can see he did have CCJs and 
adverse credit at the time of his application. I need to decide whether that information was 
known to Monzo and whether its decision to approve his overdraft was reasonable. 
Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure it does so in a 
responsible way. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, this 
means businesses should ensure proportionate checks are carried out to make sure the 
customer can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These checks should take 
into account various factors, like the amount being lent, the costs to the borrower each 
month, credit history and the consumers income and outgoings. As the relationship between 
lender and borrower progresses, the business may need to consider carrying out more 
comprehensive checks to ensure the borrower can afford repayments in a sustainable way.
In Mr Hs case, the overdraft application was for £500 which is a reasonably modest sum. 
Monzo collected personal information from Mr H, including his address and income, and 
applied estimated living costs to verify whether the overdraft was sustainable for him. In 
addition, Monzo completed a credit search as part of the application process. Im satisfied 
those checks were proportionate when considering the type and amount of credit Mr H 
applied for. 
In my view, the key issue is that Monzos credit search didnt pick up Mr Hs CCJs and 
adverse credit. So Monzo wasnt aware of them when it assessed and approved the 
overdraft application. Ive seen the other credit searches Mr H has provided along with the 
screen prints of the CCJs. I note that the CCJs were recorded ad different addresses to the 
one Mr H was living at when he completed his application. Its possible the credit search 
completed didnt pick up Mr Hs previous address which could be why the CCJs and other 
adverse credit wasnt found by Monzo. Whilst I dont doubt Mr H did have the adverse credit 
hes told us about, Im satisfied Monzos credit search didnt find that information. 
As Im satisfied Monzo was unaware of the CCJs and adverse credit, Im unable to agree it 
acted unfairly by approving Mr Hs overdraft application. In my view, Monzo completed 
proportionate checks and, based on what it knew, its decision to approve Mr Hs overdraft 
was reasonable. I havent been persuaded that Monzo lent irresponsibly. 
Monzo paid Mr H £75 for service issues following his complaint. Im satisfied thats a fair way 
to resolve Mr Hs complaint. As Im satisfied Monzo dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman