DRN-2984188
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through a broker. The 
policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr S and Mrs S policy covered them between 1 
October 2019 and 30 September 2020. The policy cost Mr S and Mrs S £176.81, which 
included a discount of £51.53. The premium included cover for Mrs S medical condition.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr S got in touch with the broker in June 2020 to ask 
whether he could either put the policy on hold or cancel it and get a cash refund.
Great Lakes told Mr S it couldnt suspend the policy. And it didnt offer Mr S and Mrs S a 
cash refund. Ultimately, it offered them the following options:
A pro-rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the price of 12 
months, at current market rates;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy. This would be a 12 month 
policy at current market rates. A policyholder can choose to start the policy at any 
time within 12 months of buying it; or
A pro-rata credit towards a UK-only annual multi-trip policy, with a potential to 
upgrade the destination at a later date.
Great Lakes calculated that the pro-rata credit voucher Mr S and Mrs S were due was 
£23.96. 
Mr S and Mrs S werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought Great Lakes offer was fair. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. He also explained 
that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  
for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. And he explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance 
to be performed because cover under the policy started on 1 October 2019 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr S and Mrs S a credit voucher, which took into account the 
unused cover remaining on the policy. He didnt think the terms of the voucher were overly 
restrictive. So he didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mr S and Mrs S a cash refund of 
their premium.
Mr S and Mrs S disagreed. They didnt think our role was to make decisions based on the 
contract terms or industry guidelines. They understood that our decisions were made on the 
basis of what was fair and reasonable.
We subsequently asked Great Lakes to recalculate Mr S and Mrs S offer by using the actual 
price theyd paid for the policy, divided by the total length of the policy and multiplied by the 
days that werent used. Great Lakes agreed and it recalculated its credit voucher offer. The 
total refund voucher offer is now £58.45.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S and Mrs S, I think Great Lakes offer is 
fair. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
I think Great Lakes offer is fair because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer 
a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs S cooling-off period ended on 4 October 2019. But the 
policy wasnt cancelled until 2 June 2020. So the cancellation was outside of the 14-
day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its 
discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic to be exceptional circumstances. I think 
this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the 
policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I 
dont think the terms and conditions of Mr S and Mrs S contract with Great Lakes 
entitle them to any refund of premiums.  
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint (as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great 
Lakes offer to Mr and Mrs S of a credit voucher for the unused portion of their policy 
is fair and reasonable. And given the policy wasnt cancelled until 2 June 2020, I 
think its fair that the date of the cancellation of the policy is used to calculate the 
refund on the facts of this case 
 
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for a 366-day period if the policy hadnt been 
cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 121 days of cover, after 
the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mr S and 
Mrs S making a claim after that point.
Great Lakes has now agreed to recalculate the refund by dividing the actual price 
paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk. 
Its now calculated the refund offer to be £58.45.  Im satisfied that this leads to a fair 
outcome.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because Mr S and Mrs S havent indicated that they have no 
future plans to travel, or that they wont use the voucher. They simply think its 
calculation is unfair. So I think its likely they will be able to put the voucher towards 
another policy in the future. This means I dont think that the terms of the voucher are 
overly restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr S and Mrs S will be disappointed in my 
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums and Im 
satisfied its current offer is fair. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes to calculate the refund voucher due to Mr and Mrs S by dividing the 
actual price paid for their policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on 
risk.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman