DRN-3645685
The complaint
Mr S complains eBay Commerce UK Ltd didnt allow him to withdraw money.
What happened
Mr S has held an eBay account for many years and had a linked bank account, to allow him 
to move money from eBay. Mr S hadnt changed the linked bank account in all the time hes 
held his eBay account.
eBay updated its terms and conditions, because it began providing regulated payments, and 
Mr S had to add his bank account details again. Mr S did this and was able to move a 
payment to his bank account.
Mr S then sold something on eBay, and wanted to move the money, over £700, to his bank 
account. Mr S couldnt move the money as his bank account was unverified.
Mr S tried to verify his bank account using micro deposits, small amounts of money 
deposited by eBay and confirmed by Mr S. But Mr S didnt receive any deposits. Mr S 
contacted eBay several times and was told to remove and then add his bank account.
This didnt work, so Mr S complained to eBay. eBay told Mr S the complaint was resolved, 
but Mr S disagreed and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator thought eBay sent Mr S the micro deposits. And the investigator thought eBay 
offered Mr S other options to try and verify his bank account.
Mr S says hed contacted eBay on 60 occasions over six weeks and could demonstrate the 
micro deposits hadnt been received. Mr S says he wasnt offered any alternatives and it 
seemed to be a systemic issue, other people had complained online.
The investigator sent Mr S some chats where alternatives were offered, but Mr S asked for 
an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied eBay varied its terms and was entitled to do this. Part of this variation was a 
requirement to verify bank accounts. It seems Mr S was able to send the first payment 
without verification, but eBay sent micro deposits when he first added his account.
For the larger payment Mr S says he didnt receive any micro deposits so couldnt verify his 
bank account. Ive looked at eBays proof, and Im satisfied it sent the micro deposits. This 
doesnt necessarily mean Mr S received them, but Im satisfied they were sent.
eBays records show micro deposits sent in January, February and March. The January and 
March verifications expired as they hadnt been confirmed in the required time. The February 
verification failed because the wrong amounts were entered.
Mr S says he can show the micro deposits werent received. The investigator asked Mr S for 
copies of his bank statements, but Mr S hasnt sent them in. Without any proof the micro 
deposits werent received, I dont think I can say eBays done anything wrong here.
Mr S says he was told to remove and then add his bank account, and says he did this 
several times without success. I can see from the chats eBay suggested this. It seems eBay 
was looking to try and help Mr S, but I dont think this specific help was successful.
But eBay did offer another alternative, verifying Mr S bank account through eBay. This 
would involve Mr S logging on to his online banking through eBays website.
Im satisfied this alternative was offered to Mr S, despite him saying it wasnt.
And Ive thought about what Mr S says about other eBay users complaining about the same 
issue. I have to decide complaints on an individual basis, so I need to decide if eBay did 
anything wrong when dealing with Mr S and his complaint alone.
While I dont dispute it seems other people had similar problems, I dont know the exact 
details and I have to decide Mr S complaint on its individual merits.
Having done this, I dont think eBays done anything wrong here. Im persuaded eBay sent 
Mr S micro deposits and I think eBay gave Mr S other alternatives to verify his bank account.
Mr S says he contacted eBay many times to try and resolve things, and I dont dispute this. 
But I have to consider eBay sent micro deposits and offered alternative ways to verify Mr S 
account.
So, despite the number of times Mr S contacted eBay, I still dont think its done anything 
wrong. Mr S bank account had to be verified, and eBay told Mr S how to do this along with 
sending the micro deposits, I cant see its not done what it should have.
Mr S received the larger payment after eBay accidently sent it to his bank account without 
verifying it. But this error was in Mr S favour, so I dont think eBay needs to do more to 
resolve things.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman