DRN-2825186
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC approved him for a credit account which he
believes was unaffordable for him at that time.
What happened
In March 2017, Mr D applied for a credit account with Barclays online. His application was
approved, and Mr D was accepted for a credit account with a credit limit of £3,500.
In November 2019, Mr D made a complaint to Barclays on the basis that he felt that Barclays
had lent to him irresponsibly by providing him with a line of credit that wasnt affordable for
him at the time that hed applied for it.
Barclays looked at Mr Ds complaint, but they felt that they had conducted appropriate
checks into Mr Ds financial position at the time of the application, and that those checks
hadnt demonstrated that the credit account was unaffordable for Mr D at that time. So, they
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Mr Ds credit file showed
that hed been using short-term payday loans extensively for a number of years leading up
to the credit application, and they felt that had Barclays reviewed Mr Ds credit file that this
would have been apparent to them and most likely affected their decision to offer credit to Mr
D. So, they recommended that the complaint be upheld in Mr Ds favour.
Barclays didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 April 2021 as follows:
Ive reviewed both the information provided by Barclays which they gathered on
Mr D at the time of the application and which they used to conduct a creditworthiness
assessment of Mr D, as well as Mr Ds credit file and other information provided by 
Mr D, which enabled me to better understand Mr Ds financial circumstances at the 
time that he applied for the credit account.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and, if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that the business 
conducts reasonable and proportionate checks, in consideration of the amount of 
credit being offered, to ensure that the credit account is affordable for the customer 
such that the customer would realistically be able to repay the credit, should the 
account be taken by the customer to the authorised credit limit.
Barclays contend that they did that here. They obtained information regarding Mr Ds 
income and monthly outgoings, including the total monthly repayments of any other 
existing borrowing that Mr D had, and conducted an affordability assessment on the 
basis of that information which determined that the credit account that Mr D was 
applying for would be affordable for him.
Having reviewed Mr Ds credit file, its evident that Mr D was using a large number of 
payday loans both at the time of the application and regularly for a number of years 
prior to it. Indeed, at the time of the credit application Mr D had eleven active payday 
loans which he was maintaining, as well as a further seven which he had applied for 
within six months prior to making the application, but which had been repaid by the 
time the application was made.
The use of payday loans, especially when used with the frequency and regularity that 
Mr D was using them, can be, but isnt necessarily, a strong indicator that the 
individual using the loans is experiencing financial difficulties. And it follows from this 
it would be expected by this service that Barclays would have taken these payday 
loans into consideration such that they might reasonably have prompted Barclays to 
conduct more robust affordability checks  above and beyond the standard 
creditworthiness check that Barclays conducted here  before authorising a line of 
credit for Mr D.
However, while Im not convinced that Barclays did conduct reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks in this instance, Im also not convinced that, had 
they done so, their decision to offer the credit to Mr D would have changed.
I say this because, while Mr D was using, and historically had used, a large number 
of payday loans, there were no instances of missed or late payments on these loans. 
Indeed, all the payday loans taken were either being repaid, or had been repaid, on 
time and without incident.
Its also notable the Mr Ds current account balance, while being overdrawn, was 
significantly under the agreed overdraft limit and had been maintained in this position 
for some time. Given that its likely that the interest rate Mr D would have incurred if 
he had used his agreed overdraft more extensively would have been lower than the 
interest rates he incurred when using payday loans, its difficult not to conclude from 
this that Mr Ds use of payday loans was one of choice, rather than one of necessity.
Considering then that Mr Ds credit file appears to demonstrate that he was 
managing the use of his payday loans without incident, its also difficult to conclude 
that Mr D was in financial difficulties here - at least to the extent that he should have 
been recognised as being in financial difficulties by Barclays when conducting their 
creditworthiness assessment.
This means that while I dont feel that Barclays did undertake reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks here, I dont feel that their decision to offer credit to 
Mr D would have changed had they done so. And I say this because I feel that the 
information that Barclays would have obtained from further checks would have 
shown that Mr D was using payday loans but that he was managing the use of these 
loans responsibly and without incident, and that he wasnt using these payday loans 
out of necessity because of an absence of alternative available financial options.
Ultimately, this means that its difficult for me to conclude that the credit that Mr D 
was approved for here wasnt affordable for him at the time that he applied for it. And, while I acknowledge that the credit may have become unaffordable for him at a later 
time, I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably uphold this complaint against Barclays 
on the basis that they should have deemed the credit unaffordable for Mr D at the 
time of the application and therefore shouldnt have offered the credit to Mr D in the 
first instance.
It follows from this that my provisional decision here will be that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time. I realise that 
this wont be the outcome that Mr D was wanting here, but I hope that he can 
understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made the 
provisional decision that I have.
In my provisional decision I gave both Mr D and Barclays the opportunity to provide any 
comments or additional information they felt I should consider before I move to issue my final 
decision. Barclays confirmed that they accepted my provisional decision, while Mr D raised 
several points which he felt I hadnt taken due account of when making my provisional 
decision.
For instance, Mr D has stated that at the time of the credit application he had a poor credit 
score and that no other lender would offer credit to him at that time. Mr D has also 
referenced the number of payday loans that he was using at that time and states that this 
should have been an indicator that he was struggling to manage his finances. 
Mr D also believes that, as a new customer to Barclays, he should have been asked to 
provide copies of his bank statements for Barclays to review, and that if hed done so, 
Barclays would have noticed a high number of gambling transactions on those statements 
that should have given them cause to reconsider their decision to offer credit to him. 
Additionally, Mr D feels that the repeated use of payday loans and the gambling transactions 
on his bank statements should have been sufficient for Barclays to consider him as being a 
vulnerable customer, which also should have influenced their decision to offer him credit.
These are all valid points, and I dont dispute that it may have been the case that Mr D did 
meet the definition of a vulnerable customer at the time that he made the credit application to 
Barclays in March 2017. And, having reviewed the account statements from the credit 
account under consideration here, its clear that Mr D did use the credit account to make 
gambling transactions from when the account because available to him in March 2017.
However, it doesnt necessarily follow from this that Barclays should have recognised Mr D 
as being a vulnerable customer at the time of the credit account application, and this is 
because it may have been the case  and in this instance I feel that it was the case  that Mr 
Ds status as a potential vulnerable customer wouldnt be apparent as a result of the 
reasonable and proportionate checks that Barclays were obliged to undertake when 
assessing Mr Ds credit account application.
When Mr D applied for the credit account, Barclays took details of Mr Ds financial 
circumstances, such as his monthly income and expenditure, from Mr D as part of the 
application process. Barclays also received information compiled by a credit reference 
agency about Mr Ds wider financial position, although it appears that Barclays may not have 
reviewed Mr Ds credit file directly.
Its my opinion that Barclays should have reviewed Mr Ds credit file directly, in order to gain 
a clearer understanding of Mr Ds financial position at that time. But it remains my opinion 
that  had Barclays done this  it would have been reasonable for them to conclude that Mr D wasnt in financial difficulty at that time, such that their decision to offer credit to Mr D 
wouldnt have been affected.
Mr D has stated that his credit score at that time was poor and that no other lenders would 
offer credit to him. But the decision to offer credit to a customer is one that its at the 
discretion of the business to make, and in this instance Barclays have confirmed that the 
information that they received from a credit reference agency satisfied them that Mr D did 
meet their own criteria such that they would offer credit to him.
It also must be recognised that it wasnt the case that no other lenders would offer credit to 
Mr D at that time, because Mr D was using several payday loan providers around that time, 
all of which he was repaying on time and without incident.
Mr D believes that his using payday lenders was, in and of itself, an indicator that he was in 
financial difficulty. But Im not convinced by Mr Ds argument here, and, as explained in my 
provisional decision, while the use of payday lenders can be an indicator of financial 
difficulty, this isnt necessarily the case.
In this instance, while Mr D was using payday loans frequently, all of these payday loans 
were being repaid on time and without incident. Additionally, Mr Ds credit file demonstrates 
that, while Mr D did have an agreed overdraft on his current account at that time, and was 
overdrawn, he maintained his balance significantly below the overdraft limit. 
Its difficult when considering these points not to arrive at the conclusion that Mr D was 
managing his financial affairs responsibly at that time and that his use of payday loans was 
one of choice  given that he always had available agreed overdraft facility which remained 
unused  rather than being one of necessity, such that he was using payday loans because 
he had no other financial option.
Indeed, in his correspondence with this service, Mr D has confirmed that he made efforts to 
ensure that he didnt fall behind with his payday loans  and Mr D was continually successful 
in these efforts. 
All of which means that, while I do feel that Barclays should have undertaken a review of Mr 
Ds credit file, I also feel that had they done so that its reasonable and likely that they 
wouldnt have concluded from that review that Mr D was in financial difficulty of that they 
should have reconsidered their decision to offer credit to him.
Mr D also feels that, as a new customer, Barclays should have reviewed his bank 
statements which would have demonstrated that he was making a large number of gambling 
transactions at that time. But, while a business is obliged to undertake checks into a 
customers financial position at the time of a credit account application, theyre only obliged 
to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks, in consideration of the amount of credit 
being offered. And Im not convinced that it would have been reasonable or proportionate for 
Barclays to have requested copies of bank statements in this instance, given that the 
amount of credit being applied for in this instance wasnt particularly high, and also given the 
status of Mr Ds credit file and income and expenditure as previously discussed.
Finally, Mr D has expressed his opinion that, as a new customer to Barclays, he should only 
have been offered a credit limit of £200. But it isnt the case that Barclays are obliged to 
provide such low credit limits to new customers. Instead, its at the discretion of Barclays to 
decide whether to offer credit to an applying customer, and if so, how much and on what 
terms.Ultimately, while I have taken Mr Ds concerns under further consideration, it remains the 
case that I feel that the information that Barclays ought reasonably to have assessed 
shouldnt, in all likelihood, have given them cause to consider that the credit account being 
offered to Mr D was unaffordable for him at that time. And it follows from this that my final 
decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further 
action at this time.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman