DRN-4417733
The complaint
Mr C complains that, when he made withdrawals from an ATM abroad, Santander UK Plc 
was responsible for him being charged a markup on each transaction, when he understood 
that all such withdrawals were not subject to any fees or charges.
What happened
In March 2023, whilst abroad Mr C withdrew cash from a local ATM on several successive 
days. As far as I can see he made nine withdrawals in total. Subsequently he noticed on his 
receipts that hed been charged an 8.5% mark up on each withdrawal, which amounted to a 
considerable sum.
He complained to Santander that he shouldnt have been charged any fees. It replied that he 
received a higher exchange rate and a markup due to opting to take the money out in "own 
currency" not the "local currency". It explained that when "own currency" is selected the  
transaction is converted there and then so the amount shown on the screen will come 
through to it in Pounds Sterling. The ATM owner can then offer its own exchange rate and 
charges, these would have been shown on screen and Mr C must have accepted them. This 
is known as dynamic currency conversion. If he had chosen to pay in the "local currency", 
then the transaction would have come through to it in the local currency and the conversion 
rate used would have been the one quoted on its website.
Mr C was not happy. He contacted the local branch of Santander where the ATM was 
situated. He received a reply from it which said that the ATM owner had not charged a fee 
and that the markup was likely to have been charged by the card provider. He pointed out 
that he had used that ATM numerous times and strongly denied that he had selected own 
currency rather than the local currency. He pointed out that after 11 March 2023 he had 
been able to use his card without selecting a currency and that he had not been charged any 
fees for withdrawals.
Mr C also attended his local branch of Santander in the UK. He queried the exchange rate 
and the fee and was told the exchange rate was correct but no fee had been charged. 
Santander agreed that this information was incorrect and offered Mr C £100 compensation, 
which he rejected.
Our Investigator said that there was no evidence that Santander had made a mistake and 
that Mr C was responsible for his own use of his card.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where any evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, my decision is 
based on what in my opinion is most likely to have happened.
First of all I don't think that Santander in the UK, profited from the markup. Santander UK 
says that the local branch did profit from the markup, although that branch denies that. 
Mr Cs ATM receipts clearly set out an 8.5% markup. Santander says that Mr C selected the 
own currency option. But as Mr C didnt complain about it until after hed completed all the 
withdrawals hes complaining about, there are no screenshots available as to what would 
have been shown when Mr C made the withdrawals.
Mr C would not have been charged any fees for using the ATM if he had opted to pay in 
local currency. Santanders terms and conditions say that it is often cheaper to pay in local 
currency and that if pounds sterling is selected there will be an exchange rate and a possible 
fee charged. The local Santander branch says that neither it nor the ATM owner charged 
that fee but speculate that the fee may have been charged by the card provider.
Theres no doubt that Mr S was charged the 8.5% markup fee. And whilst Santander, both 
in the UK and the local branch say they didnt charge the fee, I think the most plausible 
explanation is that the local ATM provider charged that fee. But I think it likely that Mr C 
would have been given the on screen option to incur that fee each time he used the ATM. 
And he continued to use the same ATM, keeping the receipts, on nine separate occasions 
incurring the fee each time.  It would have been a substantial sum each time but he didnt 
query it until after hed made all the withdrawals so there was no opportunity to check 
whether it was incurred due to a user error or some other failure. 
I understand that Mr C says he used that ATM many times before and he made withdrawals 
after that for which he wasnt charged. Santander says that is because he made the 
withdrawals in local currency. And in respect of withdrawals afterwards it does appear that 
the card provider was changed so there may have been a different process. 
It appears to me that the most likely explanation for Mr C incurring a fee for withdrawals is 
because he charged it to his own, rather than local currency. Whilst he has asked us to get 
in touch with the local Santander branch concerned, I havent seen anything that would 
persuade me it would be able to help. It has already referred Mr C back to Santander in the 
UK. I dont think there was any error on Santanders part, and I dont think it was at fault for 
Mr C being charged the markup fee.
As regards compensation, I understand that Mr C was offered £100 because when he 
attended his local branch of Santander in the UK he was told that no fees had been charged 
which was wrong. I think that £100 is an appropriate award of compensation in this case.
My final decision
Santander has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman