DRN-3672625
The complaint
Mr B complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (hereafter URV) unfairly declined his 
travel insurance claim.  
What happened
Mr B held a multi-trip travel insurance policy that was underwritten by URV and covered the 
period 3 March 2020 to 2 March 2021. 
On 8 June 2020 Mr B booked a trip to a country Ill call F. He travelled there by motorbike 
as planned on 20 June 2020 and was due to return on 28 June 2020. On Mr Bs second day 
in F he had a motorbike accident and required hospital treatment. Mr B made a claim for 
medical assistance through his travel insurance policy following that, but it was declined.
URV explained the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) had advised 
against all but essential travel to F and said Mr B had travelled against that advice. URV also 
said it didnt consider Mr Bs travel to be essential and itd only be able to provide non-
financial support to help him explore his options. 
Mr B complained. He provided a letter hed sought from the FCDO which said the decision to 
travel fell to individual responsibility. And he said a precedent had been set because a claim 
hed made on his motorbike insurance following the accident too had been paid. 
URV maintained its position and Mr B brought his complaint to this service. But our 
investigator thought URV had declined Mr Bs claim in line with the relevant policy terms and 
agreed his travel hadnt been essential either. So as Mr B still disagreed and no agreement 
was reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has set out his position at length and I am of course sorry to hear of the lasting impact 
he says the accident will have on him. However, for the reasons Ill now go on to explain I 
will not be upholding his complaint:
URV has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly and to not reject 
them unreasonably. The terms and conditions of Mr Bs travel insurance policy 
detailed the basis on which his cover was provided, and page one of that document 
set out the policys criteria for purchase:
This insurance will not be valid if, at the time you bought the policy, everyone 
named on the insurance schedule:


Is not travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or 
Advise against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office at the time of your departure;
Both parties have different opinions about the essential nature of Mr Bs travel but Im 
not persuaded I need make a finding on this. Its already been established that the 
FCDO had advised against all or all but essential travel to F when Mr B went there. 
And the terms of his policy had set out that it wouldnt be valid if Mr B travelled to an 
area where such advice was in place. So, whether Mr Bs travel was essential or not 
isnt the determining factor here. The act of him travelling to F at a time when the 
above FCDO advice was in place is  because that invoked the above term. 
Mr B has put forward a number of arguments to support his decision to travel. For 
example that by the time he travelled complete travel bans previously had been lifted, 
and the FCDO said the decision to travel fell to individual responsibility. While I 
appreciate everything Mr B has said in relation to this, the circumstances surrounding 
his travel do not circumvent the terms of his policy. 
I dont agree that a precedent has been set by Mr Bs motorbike insurer. Motor and 
travel insurance are of course different products and one insurers decision to accept 
a claim doesnt automatically mean another should. But irrespective of that, URV had 
made the underwriting decision to not cover any risks associated with policy holders 
travelling to areas against FCDO advice. That was something it was entitled to do, 
and it would not be fair or reasonable of me to direct it to pay Mr Bs claim simply 
because hed made a successful claim on another policy. 
Mr B has implied that he may not have received a copy of the terms and conditions 
when he purchased his travel insurance. He recalls a policy certificate and schedule 
but says neither referenced travelling against FCDO advice. URV provided Mr Bs 
policy but did not sell it to him, so if Mr B remains concerned about the sale of his 
policy hell need to raise those concerns with the seller in the first instance. It would 
be inappropriate of this service to make any findings about the sale before then. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman