DRN-1822601
The complaint
Mrs W has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions she didnt make, 
nor did she apply for a loan of £15,600.
What happened
Mrs W went on holiday with a friend in September 2019. She was using her debit card as 
normal and taking cash out of cash machines.
Shes told us she got a call from someone saying they worked for Barclays. She had to 
provide some ID information (her date of birth and mothers maiden name) and was told to 
just use one specific cash machine for the rest of the holiday because of the risk of her card 
being cloned.
Shed then had some problems using her cards. Mrs W had also lost her mobile phone but it 
was returned within a day to a bar she knew. She initially told Barclays she kept nothing with 
her phone.
When Mrs W got home, she went to her branch. They confirmed the cards she had werent 
in her name. Mrs W believed shed got these cards when shed used cash machines. Mrs W 
said none of the transactions on her account had been made by her and shed not applied 
for a loan of £15,600 nor transferred money from her savings. This money had also been 
credited to her account and spent.  
Barclays rejected Mrs Ws fraud claim. Theyd seen another case with a similar claim. In that 
case and Mrs Ws the same phone had been used to make calls. They felt this was 
suspicious and overall that Mrs W had known her account was being misused and 
authorised this. They wouldnt refund the money she had lost and expected her to make loan 
repayments.
Mrs W also called Barclays to transfer £2,200 to a friend but she subsequently said shed 
only meant to transfer £240 and didnt understand what had happened.
Mrs W brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator felt the parallels 
between Mrs Ws case and the other claim Barclays had received from a person Mrs W 
didnt appear to know was concerning. He also noted the evidence that Mrs W continued to 
use her own phone to log into her Barclays app throughout her holiday. She hadnt noticed 
the many transactions taking place which she now said shed not authorised. He wouldnt be 
asking Barclays to refund Mrs W or cancel the loan.  
At the same time he noted there was a fraud-related marker against Mrs W which he asked 
Barclays to remove. Barclays confirmed theyd not placed the marker against Mrs W. This 
had been done by her credit card provider which is the subject of a separate complaint.
Mrs W now found herself in a position where she had lost a great deal of money and was 
substantially in debt. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
I can see another loan provider contacted Mrs W in February 2020 to say a loan had been 
sought in her name and theyd rejected this application as they believe it was a case of 
attempted ID fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered detailed evidence provided to us by Barclays 
which includes records of Mrs Ws online and mobile banking use throughout this period as 
well as the loan application. Barclays has also told us of a similar fraud on another Barclays 
account which bears startling similarities to Mrs Ws case, including the use of the same 
telephone number to contact the banks involved. Im also aware that CIFAS, who manage 
the industry fraud database, alerted its members to a specific fraud-type happening in one 
specific overseas country. This alert also matches the circumstances of what happened 
here.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. Again our rules allow me to do this.
Ive considered the following issues:
The loan application for £15,600 was made using Mrs Ws genuine bank details 
using her online banking login. This money was credited to her account on 
5 September 2019.
Different devices were linked to Mrs Ws account over the period the fraud took 
places but all were using a similar overseas IP address.
Mrs W only lost her phone for a day and whilst her phone screen had no lock on it 
during this period, access to her mobile banking was through an app and was 
password-protected.
Mrs W has not suggested that her online banking and security details may have been 
compromised, nor is there anything to show she notified her bank of any concerns 
until her visit into branch after her return.
Mrs Ws mobile app was used to initiate transfers from her Barclays savings account 
to her current account. Four individual transfers were made on 4, 6 and 16 
September 2019. The first three transfers on 4 and 6 September were for £500, 
£5,000 and £10,000.
Mrs W has said she didnt have cards which worked and managed in her time abroad 
by borrowing from friends. I find this unusual and wonder why Mrs W wouldnt 
contact her bank immediately if this happened so at least shed have replacement 
cards ready on her return.
Over the period Mrs W was abroad, shes told us she had her mobile phone for all of 
the time except the 24-hour period she lost it. There was a large amount of money 
paid into her Barclays account. Her debit card was used extensively for large value 
transactions. I find it surprising Mrs W didnt notice any of this unusual account 
activity even though the evidence shows she was logging into her mobile app.
Ive considered Mrs Ws point that this all took place without her knowledge but I find this 
hard to believe. Its unclear to me how all her security details for both her online and mobile banking could have been compromised as well as her debit card being taken and used with 
the PIN, without her having shared that information.
Mrs Ws story that her cards could have been swallowed by cash machines doesnt hang 
together Im afraid.
And thats apart from the evidence showing Mrs W was checking the status of her account 
and never once complained to Barclays about the potential misuse. 
A possible scenario is that Mrs W was persuaded by friends or acquaintances to allow her 
details to be used in exchange for a free holiday or some other recompense. She may not 
even have known exactly what that use would entail. However this would mean that Mrs W 
had allowed someone else to use her bank account to apply for the loan and use her cards 
to spend all the money. She may even have been told that as shed not taken out the loan, 
she wouldnt have to repay it. This isnt the case as it seems that Mrs W in allowing the use 
of her cards and account had authorised the fraud to take place.
Barclays did not lodge a CIFAS marker against Mrs Ws current account. In fact from whats 
been confirmed to us, it appears they made a specific decision not to do this. I believe 
Barclays realised this would make it difficult for Mrs W to get a further bank account and as 
she receives pension payments, this could make things unduly difficult for her.
I note that the overall debt that Mrs W will be expected to repay is an extremely large 
amount of money and so really appreciate her distress.
However overall I believe Mrs W made or authorised the loan application with Barclays and 
allowed her debit card and PIN to be used by a third party.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman