DRN-4318455
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr D wanted to book a holiday and found a hotel which was highly rated, well-reviewed, and 
recommended on major hotel websites. He decided to contact the hotel and completed a 
contact form using him email address. Unfortunately, his emails were intercepted by 
scammers who then had control of all communication between him and what he thought was 
the hotel. He decided to go ahead with the booking on 17 June 2022 and was misled into 
paying a total of £8,115.68 to the scammers from his Barclays account via an account he 
held with W. 
On 27 October 2022, Mr D contacted the hotel via live chat to ask for confirmation of the 
booking, but the hotel confirmed they had no record of the booking or the payment. And 
when he shared the emails, he learned they werent with the hotel, and the bank details 
didnt match. 
Mr D contacted Barclays with the assistance of a representative. He said it had failed in its 
duty to protect him from this scam as it failed to provide effective warnings which would have 
prevented his loss. And when did intervene, it failed to ask probing questions which would 
have allowed it to understand the context of the payments. The representative said that had 
Barclays done more to protect Mr D, he wouldnt have proceeded with the payment.
Barclays said W was a well-established payee, so the payment wasnt out of character. It 
accepted Mr D tried to raise a fraud claim, but even if hed been successful, the claim would 
have been withdrawn on the basis that the onward payment to the hotel came from T, so 
hed need to raise a claim with W.
Mr D complained to this service. He said he didnt know could intercept emails and that hed 
sent £8,115.68 without any intervention from Barclays apart from a general pop-up asking if 
he was sure he wanted to make the payments. 
He thought the booking was genuine because the correspondence was professional, and the 
email signatures looked legitimate. He was distressed when Barclays didnt log his complaint 
or provide education on how to avoid scams in future. He accepted W was an established 
payee but argued the high-value nature of the payment should have caused concerns and 
raised red flags. He said Barclays should have measures in place to detect a sudden 
increase in spending and recognise suspicious and high-value transactions. He said the 
highest transaction hed made in the months prior to the scam was £2,500, so £8,115.68 
was unusual. He argued that if Barclays had sent him a warning tailored to this particular 
type of scam, he would have been deterred from making the payment. But it failed to warn 
him, therefore it failed to protect him from the risk of fraud.
Finally, he stated the overarching provision of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code is for signatories to reduce the occurrence of APR scams and Barclays failed 
to adhere to this.
His representative said the payment represented a sudden increase in spending, it was a 
large and unusual amount and it matched known advanced fee/impersonation fraud. Further, 
he had received £8,115.68 into the account and transferred it to W the same day, which was 
another known indicator of fraud. They said that, as a signatory of the CRM, Barclays should 
have sent effective warning messages and that the one it did send was ineffective, bland 
and generic and didnt contain anything to catch his attention or alert him that the payment 
had the hallmarks of fraud. They said the warning should have been tailored to APP scam 
risk indicators, which would have indicated he was being scammed. 
Representative also said Barclays didnt bother to contact Mr D to check it was him making 
the payment, even though he hadnt sent any high-value payments in the months prior. They 
argued it should have called to ask questions around why he was making the payment, how 
he found out about the company, whether hed researched the company, where it was based 
and whether someone was pressuring him to make the payment. With this information, it 
should have realised he was likely falling victim to an elaborate scam and as he wasnt 
prompted to give false answers, it would have been clear the payment had the typical 
hallmarks of that particular scam type. It should then have provided an effective warning and 
Mr D would have decided against making the payment. 
Barclays explained it didnt intervene because hed made payments of similar value and the 
money was transferred to an account Mr D held with W, which was an existing payee that 
hed paid many times, as well as after the scam. It also said it isnt liable for the payment 
under the CRM code as it doesnt apply to payments to an account in the same name, so Mr 
D would need to raise a complaint with W. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the payment 
was particularly unusual or suspicious when compared to the normal account activity, 
explaining hed made a payment of £20,000 on 28 April 2022, another payment of £10,000 
on 13 January 2022 and £10,150.39 on 22 March 2022. Further, W was a known payee to 
which Mr D made other high value payments including £2,408.02 on 28 February 2022.
She explained that as Mr D didnt interact with Barclays when he made the payment it didnt 
miss an opportunity to identify it was being made in relation to a scam.
And she said there was no prospect of a successful chargeback claim as W had provided 
the service it was required to provide, and there would have been no prospect of a 
successful recovery as Mr D had moved the money from W to the scammers account.
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman arguing the large 
payment were transfers referred to by our investigator were between other accounts he held 
with Barclays, and all other payments were more than £5000 less than the disputed 
payment.
They maintain Barclays should have flagged the payment as unusual and asked questions 
around the purpose pf the payment in response to which he would have been open about 
the treason for the payment. Barclays would then have given standard scam prevention 
advice like calling the beneficiary to verify the bank details, and the scam would have been 
stopped.His representative maintains Barclays shouldve asked questions at the time of payment and 
had it asked basic questions and given the standard advice to verbally confirm the bank 
details with the beneficiary, the scam would have been prevented. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr D has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why.
 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr D says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. But the CRM code doesnt apply to this payment 
because it was to an account in Mr Ds name.
Im satisfied Mr D authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr D is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded this was a scam. But, 
although Mr D didnt intend the money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Barclays is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive also thought about whether Barclays could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Paying for holidays is a legitimate activity, however, Barclays had an 
obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I 
need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr D when he tried to make 
the payment.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
Barclays to intervene with a view to protecting Mr D from financial harm. 
The payment didnt flag as suspicious on Barclayss systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payment in the context of whether it was unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr D 
normally ran his account and I dont think it was. The payment was to an account in Mr Ds 
own name which hed paid several times before. And while I accept £8,115.68 is a large 
amount of money, its not unusual when compared with the spending on Mr Ds account, because there are other large payments in the six months leading up to the disputed 
payment. 
I accept he also used the account for smaller day to day payments and Mr D has pointed out 
the larger payments are transfers between this account and other accounts he holds with 
Barclays. But the payment to W is also to an account in his own name, albeit with a different 
bank, so there isnt distinction enough between this and the other large payments to make 
the transfer to W suspicious. And there are other instances of him having transferred money 
out of the account shortly after receiving it. So, I dont think Barclays missed an opportunity 
to intervene.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr D 
has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Barclays is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman