DRN-4030495
The complaint
Mr P complains that Starling Bank Limited failed to complete a chargeback after transactions 
he didnt recognise left his account.
What happened
Mr P operated his account with Starling for business purposes as a sole trader, buying and
selling items. He often used the services of a popular trading site who Ill refer to as J and a
payment processor who Ill refer to as V.
Mr P was victim of two different thefts of his funds. One was for false products he paid for
through J which were later refunded by them and the second was a false credit account set
up with V that used Mr Ps Starling account to fund the purchases.
Mr P believes that the first fraud against him involving J gave the necessary details about
himself and his financial arrangements that then enabled the false credit account to be set
up. Mr P believes false landing pages were used to defraud him when he attempted to
purchase stock for his business.
There were about £6,000 of payments made using the credit facility with V that Mr Ps
account was used to then settle. Mr P approached V about the loss in the first place and
they confirmed Mr P had been the victim of a fraud.
V confirmed theyd refunded the lost money back to the credit account, but as it was not in
Mr Ps name, they couldnt release the funds back to his Starling account and advised him to
ask Starling to make a Chargeback request for these funds.
Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers
and merchants under the relevant card scheme, here Mastercard rules would apply.
Mr P approached Starling about both of the frauds against him and its apparent from the
notes that this complex situation wasnt well understood early on in the process.
Mr P asked Starling to make a Chargeback request, but they declined to do so. Starling also
closed Mr Ps account, including access to his online account and messaging facility.
Starling didnt believe they had grounds for making a Chargeback as they thought this was a
goods not received complaint and Mr P couldnt provide any invoices. Mr P had told
Starling that he had a lack of documentation because hed been asked to reset his devices
and had lost some information. But here, Mr P was claiming that hed been defrauded in
relation to V, not the goods not received claim Starling thought was the case.
Starling wrote a detailed response to Mr P about his situation and accepted that theyd let
him down with their customer service and apologised. They didnt accept they were
responsible for Mr Ps losses, believing themselves a third-party in the matter.
Mr P then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who initially thought that Starling hadnt
made an error. But further information from V changed his mind and he upheld Mr Ps
complaint, recommending that Starling repay the full loss including interest at 8% and an
amount for compensation for the way Mr P had been treated.
Starling disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of the
complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision.
I asked for some clarification concerning the refund held by V and they were able to confirm
that they would make an exceptional refund to Mr P directly which has now been completed.
Mr P remained unhappy and indicated hed lost out as a result of Starlings refusal to
process the Chargeback and theyd caused him unnecessary stress and inconvenience by
their handling of his complaint. Mr P wanted Starling to pay the full amount (with interest)
plus compensation for the way his complaint was dealt with.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Ps complaint on 13 February 2023. In 
my provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ps complaint (in part) and 
offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An 
extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
V have now completed the refund to Mr P, which means that it wouldnt be appropriate to
require Starling to make the substantive refund as well because that would mean Mr P would
receive double what he lost, resulting in betterment to him. So while it wouldnt be fair for me
to expect Starling to refund Mr P money which he has now received, I have considered how
Starling handled this situation and whether it did so fairly and reasonably.
Starling declined to make a Chargeback request which is the ongoing basis for the principal
complaint by Mr P. Chargebacks are subject to strict rules and timeframes and arent a right
that the account holder can insist on. Having said that, if theres a reasonable chance of
success, then our service would expect the business to undertake one.
Essentially Mr P was telling Starling that he hadnt authorised the payments to the credit
card held with V. Rather that hed attempted to purchase items but unknowingly used a
fraudulent landing site. He believed the scammers then used the details that Mr P had
entered, used these to apply for a credit card to make purchases which Mr Ps account was
then used to backfill the debt. V confirmed that the credit account was set up fraudulently in
another name.
Chargebacks can be used for several types of disputes, including where the account holder
denies making them  as is the case here. Additionally, V had advised Mr P to ask Starling
to make the Chargeback so they could deal with the refund. The time limit for such
applications has passed, so this process is no longer available to Starling.
So here Im considering whether Starlings approach to Mr Ps situation was fair. I dont think
it was and thats because hed taken a situation to them where he believed hed been
defrauded and had already sought help from V about it. V had explained how he could
obtain the refund which required Starling to raise a Chargeback request. Even without the
additional assistance from V, I would have expected Starling to raise the Chargeback as it
seemed that there was a reasonable chance of success here. But Starling didnt do that and
neither did they show that Mr P was responsible for the authorising the payments  either of
which would have satisfied their obligations here.
Starlings assessment of the initial information caused them to think that Mr P had changed
his story, but having read the interactions between them, I dont think thats the case. I thinkthe situation was complicated and initially not well understood, which may well have
impacted how Starling dealt with the claim.
The fact remains that Mr P had a legitimate request that Starling declined, resulting in a
delay for Mr P in receiving a refund (by V). If Starling had raised a Chargeback at the time, I
think that V would have used that process to refund the money to Mr P, because thats what
they said they would do and have now completed. The fact it didnt do that, means that I
think Starling has caused a delay in Mr P getting his money back here.
Ive considered that ultimately Vs decision to refund Mr P was taken outside of Starlings
involvement here. Im not considering Vs role in this dispute as a part of this decision. But
having considered what happened here in the context of Starlings involvement, it still
remains that had Starling taken action here, Im persuaded that it would have resulted in Mr
P getting a refund much sooner than he actually did.
Closure & delays
Starlings decision to close the account was based on the terms and conditions that the
account operated under. They gave Mr P seven days notice after considering all the
information they held. Having reviewed that information, I can understand why they closed it
and I dont think this was an unreasonable decision for them to make. But it made dealing
with the complaint harder because the messaging part of the app was no longer available to
Mr P, even though email continued to be used.
Starling later accepted that theyd let Mr P down with their handling of the complaint and the
delay in responding to Mr P or updating him about the situation.
Overall
I think Starling let Mr P down here, especially when it was apparent that a resolution to the
situation had been suggested which would likely have meant that Starlings contribution was
minimal, with the substantive refund to be made by V. But, because Starling declined to
make the Chargeback request, this unnecessarily impacted the refund to Mr P, delaying the
return of his funds.
Whilst I dont think the full refund is due to Mr P, I currently think it reasonable that Starling
contribute an interest payment of 8% simple interest per annum, from the time of the loss
until he receives his refund from V. He was without those funds and this no doubt impacted
his ability to make further purchases . Mr P has already provided some information
concerning additional costs he incurred as a result of losing these funds, and Ill consider
any other evidence regarding this before I make my final decision. But for me to recommend
further costs, I would have to be satisfied that they were caused by Starlings failure to
process the Chargeback.
My intention is to recommend a payment for the unnecessary stress and inconvenience
caused by Starlings actions here and Im currently thinking that a payment to him of £500 is
reasonable, considering the time Mr P was left without his funds and the delays that Starling
caused by their handling of the complaint. Mr P indicated he wanted far more than this, but I
have to take into account that Starling caused a delay as opposed to being responsible for
the loss.
My provisional decision
Im currently intending to uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited and have set
out my thoughts above on the redress.I invited Mr P and Starling to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Starling didnt think they should have to pay 
interest as part of the redress but did accept the £500 I recommended. Mr P disagreed and 
wrote numerous emails where, in summary he said:
he disagreed that the payment from V was considered a refund and should be 
classed as a goodwill gift.
That Starling are the ones who should refund the full amount he lost due to fraud plus 
interest.
Mr P was unable to correctly classify the funds for his business expenditure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the responses from both parties, I havent seen anything that would change 
my provisional decision and I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final 
decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision. Ive commented on both 
parties responses below.
Starlings response
Starling didnt believe that they should be responsible for interest payments when another 
merchant repaid the losses. As mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr P was without the 
funds he was using for his business for a considerable period, which was the result of 
Starlings refusal to process the chargeback request. I think its both fair and reasonable that 
they pay interest because Mr P was unable to use those funds when its likely he would have 
been able to use them to invest in his. 
Mr Ps responses
Whilst Ive summarised Mr Ps responses above, Ive read his emails in depth to understand 
his position regards this complaint.
Essentially Mr P disagreed with the terminology of the payment to him. He doesnt think it 
can be classed as a refund and by doing so it impacts his ability to correctly administer his 
business affairs. He has said hes happy to receive a payment from V, but this cant be 
considered a refund and thinks only Starling can pay this to him.
I disagree, this services role is to look at complaints independently and where there has 
been some failing or loss, to put it right. In this case, V made an offer to repay the funds that 
Mr P lost as a result of fraud on the account he used for business purposes.
That repayment, whether called a refund or a goodwill gesture, is a direct repayment to him 
for his losses, putting him back into the situation he was in before the fraud happened. It 
wouldnt be either fair or reasonable to require Starling to make another payment of the 
same amount to him because Mr P would then be in a better position than he was before the 
fraud happened.
Essentially here, Mr P lost money and has had it repaid to him. I cant comment on how Mr P 
deals with his tax affairs, but overall, hes received a payment for his losses equal to that 
which was taken from him. I have held Starling at fault for not processing the chargeback, which is why Ive recommended a payment for the stress and inconvenience of £500 and the 
addition of interest to account for the loss of opportunity to use that money. 
I havent seen any other evidence that would lead me to recommend additional payments to 
Mr P for the loss of his funds from his business account. I have examined the information he 
sent in about additional costs he incurred, but I havent seen evidence that this was linked to 
his business. 
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, Starling are required to pay Mr P £500 for the impact on Mr 
P due to their decision not to process a chargeback and also to pay Mr P 8% interest on his 
loss from the time of the payment to the point it was repaid to him by V.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, in part, against Starling Bank Limited and 
require them to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman