DRN-3071424
The complaint
Ms N has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unreasonably increased 
the premiums for her life time pet policy for her dog.
What happened
Ms N took out her policy in 2018 and her dog developed epilepsy, which meant Ms N made 
some claims on her policy. She complained to RSA in 2020 about the fact she thought the 
premium increase for that year was too high. RSA didnt agree there was anything wrong 
with the premium amount it required, but it accepted that it hadnt warned her properly when 
she took out her policy that premiums might rise, and so it paid her £100.00 compensation.
However, Ms N complained again once she received the premium amount for the next years 
policy in June 1921, given she felt the premium has risen again very substantially from 
£67.00 per month to £116.60 per month. RSA again didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
So, Ms N brought her complaint to us.
The investigator also didnt think RSA had done anything wrong. Ms N disagreed and so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I do appreciate and understand Ms N will be very disappointed with my decision. 
However, neither I nor this service can tell insurer how to rate a risk or indeed what premium 
to charge, as this service is not the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is. So, 
the setting of the premium and the price an insurer wants to charge is part of any insurers 
commercial discretion and is part of their regulated activity overseen by the FCA. They are 
entitled to decide what risks they will cover and indeed what premium price to charge for that 
cover.
What I can do is to look and ensure Ms N wasnt treated unfairly or singled out 
unreasonably, which is the case here as she wasnt treated any differently to another 
policyholder in her position. That means any other policyholder living in the same area, with 
a similar age and breed of dog, plus similar types and amounts of claims made on the policy 
would be charged the same premium price. Im not permitted to share this rating information 
with Ms N as its commercially sensitive information and we publish our decisions too. RSA 
explained that premiums do tend to rise as the pet insured ages plus if claims are made on 
the policy, along with other things such as increased costs of vet fees, medications and other 
vet procedures. 
I appreciate and understand that Ms N thinks this is very unfair as she is now struggling to 
afford the premium requested by RSA. But RSA is a commercial enterprise and 
consequently, it is for it to decide what cost the risks posed to it means in premium terms. I 
have no remit or authority to question those commercial issues, as Ms N believes, as that is 
in the hands of the regulator, the FCA and not this service.
 
Ms N remains free to search the market for other insurers who might be able to insure her 
dog for a lesser premium amount but as the investigator explained that might mean there is 
no cover or limited cover for any previously claimed for conditions or other pre-existing 
conditions. 
My final decision
So, whist I understand and appreciate Ms N will be very disappointed with my decision. For 
these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman