DRN-3542330
The complaint
Ms L and Ms L (mother and daughter) complain about their insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) declining a claim under their home insurance policy and avoiding 
the policy when they became aware a business was being carried out at their property. 
This decision only covers those aspects of Ms L and Ms Ls complaint relating to the 
avoiding of the policy and decline of their claim. It doesnt cover other issues concerning the 
cost of premiums theyd paid over the years, as those issues werent part of their complaint 
to RSA made before their complaint to this service.
What happened
In December 2019 there was a leak in the bathroom of Ms L and Ms Ls property, which led 
to the partial collapse of the ceiling of the kitchen below. They contacted RSA, who advised 
them to engage a plumber to fix the leak, which they did. RSA also advised them to obtain a 
quote for the work needed to repair the damage, which they did (for £3,400). 
RSA didnt accept the quote as they considered it too high, so appointed their own contractor 
to carry out the work. The work was scheduled to start in March 2020, but due to the national 
lockdown (and a family member shielding) the work couldnt start until September 2020. 
When the contractor arrived, they removed the bath and other items from the bathroom, 
causing damage to tiles in the process. 
However, work stopped when the contractor made RSA aware that Ms L (the daughter) was 
running a business from the property. As Ms L and Ms L hadnt told RSA about the business 
(which started in 2017) RSA appointed a claims firm (C) to investigate the claim. The repair 
work was paused while this took place. As C didnt receive replies to emails sent to Ms L and 
Ms L about the claim, they wrote to them in December 2020 to decline the claim because 
they hadnt cooperated with Cs investigation. C also gave two weeks notice of cancellation 
of the policy.
 
Ms L and Ms L then responded to C. RSA considered the responses, following which C 
wrote again to Ms L and Ms L to say that as RSA wouldnt have offered cover had they 
known about the business, the policy was avoided from the last renewal (November 2019). 
Based on this, RSA required the costs accrued under the claim (£1,691) to be repaid. But 
RSA decided not to retain the premiums paid from renewal (£615), leaving a net amount of 
£1,076 to be paid to RSA.
Unhappy at the avoidance of their policy, Ms L and Ms L complained to RSA. But they didnt 
uphold the complaint. In their final response, they confirmed the decision to avoid the policy, 
decline the claim, and require the net amount of £1,076 to be paid to them.
Ms L and Ms L then complained to this service, unhappy at the decline of their claim and 
avoidance of the policy. They acknowledged theyd made a mistake in not telling RSA about 
the business but thought it would have been covered under their policy.
 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding that RSA hadnt treated Ms L and Ms L 
fairly. He concluded Ms L and Ms L hadnt made a misrepresentation, under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), about running a business 
from their property when they first took out the policy in 2010, given the business began in 
2017. He also concluded (at the renewal of the policy in 2019) RSA hadnt asked a specific 
question about whether a business was being carried out at the property. Nor had they sent 
a statement of facts or other details of the information held about Ms L and Ms L under the 
policy. While RSAs renewal letter asked Ms L and Ms L keep them informed of any changes 
(and to refer to the policy booklet for details of what changes to notify RSA) this wasnt 
sufficiently clear and specific. Based on this, he concluded RSAs actions were unfair.
To put things right, given the impact of RSA declining the claim (and leaving the repair work 
unfinished) the investigator thought RSA should remove any record of the policy avoidance 
(both internally and externally). He also thought they should continue with the repair work 
and deal with the claim (but retain the premiums paid). RSA should also stop pursuing Ms L 
and Ms L for payment of the cost of work carried out and to pay them £800 for the distress 
and inconvenience theyd suffered.
RSA disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They firstly referred to the policy schedule wording saying policyholders must tell 
them as soon as they were aware of any change in their circumstances. RSA also referred 
to the renewal notice stating that customers should keep them (RSA) up to date and if they 
(the policyholder) didnt let them know about changes in circumstances it could affect any 
claim made (or that the policy could be cancelled). RSA also argued a reasonable consumer 
would have consulted the policy booklet and contacted them to discuss any change in 
circumstances. They considered Ms L and Ms L made a misrepresentation under CIDRA 
and that they were entitled to apply the remedy under CIDRA (policy avoidance).
Secondly, without prejudice to the remedy of policy avoidance under CIDRA, RSA referred 
to a policy condition requiring the policyholder to tell the policy administrator as soon as they 
were aware of any part of their home was going to be used for trade, professional or 
business purposes. As Ms L and Ms L hadnt told them of the business, this was a breach of 
the condition. As RSA wouldnt have provided cover had they known, this caused them 
financial prejudice as they wouldnt have paid the claim. RSA said the remedy for breach of 
condition would be a counterclaim in damages (from RSA) equivalent to the value of the 
whole claim.
Thirdly (again without prejudice to the remedy of policy avoidance under CIDRA) RSA said 
Ms L and Ms L had deliberately misrepresented the facts during the course of the claim, as 
theyd denied their property was being used for business purposes. RSA thought this would 
fall under Part 4 of the Insurance Act (where a policyholder presents a fraudulent claim). In 
those circumstances, RSA would not be liable to pay the claim and could avoid the policy 
(from the date of the fraudulent act) and retain the premiums.
In my findings, I considered the central issue in the complaint that RSA acted unfairly when 
avoiding the policy and declining the claim (and asking for repayment of the cost of work 
carried out, net of the premiums paid). Ms L and Ms L believed they made a mistake but 
were covered under the policy (and Ms L had separate insurance for her business). I also 
considered RSAs views. In doing so, I noted they avoided the policy and declined the claim 
by relying on the first of the three grounds they set out in response to our investigators view. 
They didnt mention either the second or third ground. Looking at the second and third 
grounds, the second was, in substance, like the first - albeit by reference to a different 
condition of the policy. Given this, I thought it reasonable to consider the second ground. However, the third ground referred to a separate piece of legislation and a different basis for 
the actions RSA said they could have taken. But RSA didnt raise this point in their final 
response to Ms L and Ms L. Nor did they seek (as they maintain they could have done) to 
retain the premiums paid under the policy. If RSA thought they had sufficient evidence to 
avoid the policy and decline the claim on these grounds, I thought they would have done so 
at the time. In raising this ground without raising it with Ms L and Ms L (and giving them the 
opportunity to respond) I didnt think that either fair or reasonable. So, I based my 
consideration on the first (and then the second) of the three grounds.
 
On the first ground, I didnt think RSA had asked a sufficiently clear and specific question 
about Ms L and Ms Ls business. I also considered that the business was started some 
seven years after the policy was first taken out. In the absence of a clear and specific 
question (or provision of a statement of fact or other summary of circumstances on which 
cover was being provided) during that period, I concluded that it wasnt reasonable for RSA 
to say Ms L and Ms L made a misrepresentation. 
On the second ground (breach of the policy condition requiring the policyholder to tell them 
as soon as they were aware of any part of their home was going to be used for trade, 
professional or business purposes) I wasnt persuaded that to apply it was fair or 
reasonable. Thats because the specific condition RSA referred to is one I considered when 
deciding whether Ms L and Ms L made a misrepresentation (the first ground). Having 
concluded Ms L and Ms L didnt make a misrepresentation (so it was unfair for RSA to avoid 
the policy and decline the claim) then it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for RSA to use the 
second ground (breach of condition) or to apply the remedy they said they could apply.
I then considered what RSA should do to put things right. I thought they should remove all 
record of the policy avoidance from both internal and external databases. Secondly, they 
should assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Thirdly, 
concerning the premiums paid under the policy, as I concluded RSA acted unfairly in 
avoiding the policy, the premiums paid should be retained by RSA, given Ive concluded they 
should assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. I also 
considered the question of compensation. I agreed with our investigators view that £800 
would be fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Because I considered different issues to those considered by our investigator (being the 
additional grounds put forward by RSA) and was proposing what I thought would be a fair 
and reasonable outcome to the case, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the 
opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether RSA have acted fairly towards Ms L and Ms L.
The central issue in Ms L and Ms Ls complaint is that RSA acted unfairly when avoiding the 
policy and declining their claim (and asking them to repay the cost of work carried out under 
the claim, net of the premiums paid). They believe they made a mistake, but they were 
covered under the policy (and Ms L had separate insurance for her business). 
Ive also considered RSAs views. In doing so, Ive noted that when they avoided the policy 
and declined the claim, they relied on the first of the three grounds they set out in response 
to our investigators view. They didnt mention either the second or third ground. Ive thought 
about this in the context of what I think would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. Looking at the second and third grounds, the second is, in substance, similar to 
the first - albeit by reference to a different condition of the policy. Given this, I think its 
reasonable to consider the second ground. 
However, the third ground refers to a separate piece of legislation and a different basis for 
the actions RSA say they could have taken. But RSA didnt raise this point in their final 
response to Ms L and Ms L. Nor did they seek (as they maintain they could have done) to 
retain the premiums paid under the policy. If RSA thought they had sufficient evidence to 
avoid the policy and decline the claim on these grounds, I would have expected them to 
have done so at the time  not in response to our investigators view. In raising this ground 
now, without raising it with Ms L and Ms L (and giving them the opportunity to respond) I 
dont think thats either fair or reasonable. 
So, Ive based my consideration on the first (and then the second) of the three grounds.
 
The first of those grounds (which seems the principal one in RSAs final response, although 
it isnt spelt out in detail) is that Ms L and Ms B should have been aware of the need to tell 
them about the business. Had they told them, they wouldnt have provided cover. Therefore, 
Ms L and Ms L made a misrepresentation by not telling them. As such, RSA say they were 
entitled to apply the remedy of avoiding the policy from the last renewal, declining the claim 
and asking for repayment of the costs incurred under the claim (net of the premiums paid). 
Ms L and Ms L say it was a mistake on their part, that they thought they were covered under 
the policy and that Ms L had separate insurance for her business.
As noted above, the relevant law here is CIDRA. It requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a 
policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, 
the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes 
as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has 
to show they would have offered the policy on different terms - or not at all - if the consumer 
hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
RSA think Ms L and Ms L failed to take reasonable care when they didnt tell them about the 
business. Ive considered the circumstances and evidence on this issue. From the 
information provided by Ms L and Ms L when the policy was first taken out in 2010, its clear 
they answered no to the question Is your property used for business or professional 
purposes other than clerical work undertaken by you and your family? Both the question 
and the answer are clear. However, at the time the business didnt exist (it was started in 
2017) so the answer was correct and there was no misrepresentation. 
That being the case, the key issue is Ms L and Ms L subsequently not telling RSA about the 
business (either at the time it started, or when the policy was renewed). So, Ive considered 
the issue. Looking at the documents sent to Ms L and Ms L for the renewal of the policy at 
the date from which RSA avoided the policy, there isnt a specific question about whether the 
property is being used for business purposes (or a question asking for specific confirmation it 
continues not to be used for business purposes). There is section on the front page of the 
covering letter headed Dont forget to keep us up to date that states:
Please remember to keep us informed about any changes in your circumstances so 
we can update your cover and premium accordingly. If you dont let us know about 
changes to your situation it could affect any claim you make or your policy may even be cancelled. Your policy booklet provides full information on what changes insurers 
need to know about and what information you must tell us.
Ive looked at the renewal documents, including the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) and theres no reference to either cover not being provided (use of the 
property for a business isnt listed under the What is not insured? section of the IPID). Nor 
any statement of fact or other detail that sets out that the property isnt being used for 
business purposes. There is a general reference in the IPID (under the heading What are my 
obligations) to the policyholder telling RSA as soon as they are aware of any changes in 
circumstances. But there isnt any indication of what kind of changes should be notified.
 
Ive also looked at the policy booklet, given the reference to it as set out above. Section K  
General conditions includes a section headed Changes in your circumstances which states:
You must tell the Administrator within 30 days as soon as you know about any of the 
following changes:
Any part of your home is going to be used for any trade, professional or 
business purposes. There is no need to tell us about trade, professional or 
business use if:
oThe trade, professional or business use is only clerical; and
oYou do not have staff employed to work from your home; and
oYou do not have any visitors to your home in connection with your 
trade, profession or business; and
oYou do not keep any business money or stock in your home.
Ive considered carefully whether mention on the front page of the covering letter of the 
renewal, together with reference to the policy booklet and the inclusion of business use in 
the booklet as one of the changes that should be notified, is sufficiently clear and specific. 
On balance, Ive concluded it isnt, particularly as the policy booklet wasnt (as I understand 
it) provided as part of the renewal documents. Ive also considered that the business was 
started some seven years after the policy was first taken out. In the absence of a clear and 
specific question (or provision of a statement of fact or other summary of circumstances on 
which cover was being provided) during that period, Ive concluded that it wasnt reasonable 
for RSA to say Ms L and Ms L made a misrepresentation.
 
Having reached that conclusion on the first ground put forward by RSA, Ive then considered 
the second ground, breach of the policy condition requiring the policyholder to tell them as 
soon as they were aware of any part of their home was going to be used for trade, 
professional or business purposes. 
 
Ive thought about this carefully, but Im not persuaded that to apply it is fair or reasonable. I 
say this because the specific condition RSA refer to is the one Ive set out above in the 
extract of the policy booklet, when I considered whether Ms L and Ms L made a 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. So, its essentially the same point (although RSA refer to a 
different remedy). It follows that, having concluded Ms L and Ms L didnt make a 
misrepresentation under CIDRA (so it was unfair for RSA to avoid the policy and decline the 
claim, being the remedy under CIDRA) then it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for RSA to use 
the second ground (breach of condition) or to apply the remedy they say they could apply.
Given my conclusions on the two grounds put forward by RSA that Ive considered, Ive 
thought about what RSA should do to put things right. Having concluded that it wasnt fair or 
reasonable for RSA to say Ms L and Ms L made a misrepresentation, then if follows that 
they didnt act fairly or reasonably in applying the remedies available to them for misrepresentation under CIDRA. So, they didnt act fairly and reasonably in declining their 
claim and avoiding the policy from the last renewal.
 
To put things right, I think RSA should, firstly, remove all record of the policy avoidance from 
both internal and external databases. Secondly, RSA should assess the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Thirdly, concerning the premiums paid under 
the policy, RSA proposed returning the premiums (by netting them off against the costs 
incurred on the claim to the point they avoided the policy and declined the claim). However, 
as Ive concluded they acted unfairly in avoiding the policy, the premiums paid should be 
retained by RSA, given Ive concluded they should assess the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive also considered the question of compensation. Our investigator, in upholding Ms L and 
Ms Ls complaint, thought £800 would be fair and reasonable compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience theyd suffered. Given my conclusions above, Ive thought about this 
given the circumstances of the case. I agree theyve suffered the distress and inconvenience 
of having their bathroom removed before work was stopped and I think £800 would be a fair 
and reasonable sum in compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Ms L and Ms Ls 
complaint. I intend to require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Remove all record of the policy avoidance from internal and external 
databases.
Assess Ms L and Ms Ls claim in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Pay Ms L and Ms L £800 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Ms L and Ms L accept my final decision. If they pay later than this, 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ms L and Ms L responded to say they agreed with the provisional decision.
 
RSA responded to say they didnt have anything to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA have acted fairly towards Ms L and Ms L.
As Ms L and Ms L and RSA have responded to say, respectively, they agreed with the 
provisional decision and they didnt have anything to add, I havent changed my mind on my 
conclusions. So, my final decision remains unchanged, for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Ms L and Ms Ls complaint. I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:Remove all record of the policy avoidance from internal and external 
databases.
Assess Ms L and Ms Ls claim in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Pay Ms L and Ms L £800 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell them Ms L and Ms L accept my final decision. If they pay later than 
this, they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman