DRN-1563655
The complaint
Mrs S has a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with Yorkshire Building Society and is unhappy with 
how she says it has treated her. Shes raised various different complaints over the years and 
they all relate to a property upon which Yorkshire appointed a Law of Property Act (LPA) 
Receiver and then has been marketing to sell.
Whilst the mortgage is in Mrs S sole name the complaint has been brought by - and most of 
the contact with Yorkshire over the years has been with - Mr S. As this is Mrs S mortgage Ill 
only refer to her in this decision, but that should be taken to mean Mr S where appropriate.
What happened
Mrs S mortgage was in arrears and Yorkshire appointed an LPA Receiver in May 2017. 
The property was put on the market in November 2017 for £109,950 but it was discovered 
that the kitchen didnt belong to the property (it was part of the title of a commercial property 
next door that was also owned by Mr and Mrs S) and boundary walls had been moved.
The property was re-valued on that basis at just £10,000 and only being suitable for a cash 
buyer. It was recommended that the works be done to the property to put it back in the 
condition it should have been in, and then it could be remarketed.
Once the works were completed the property was put back on the market for £85,000 in 
November 2018. As there was no interest it was reduced to £79,950 in January 2019, and 
then again to £75,000 the following month.
There were still no progressible offers so the marketing price was dropped to £55,000 to give 
it a final chance on the open market before the property would be entered into an auction.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs S complaint should be upheld. Mrs S didnt agree and so 
the matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mrs S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Before I address the underlying merits of the complaint, there are some observations I need 
to make about the extent of my remit to consider this complaint. We operate according to a 
set of rules which determine, amongst other things, who may bring a complaint to us, what 
types of financial products and/or activities we can look at and whether a particular financial 
business is covered by our service.Where, as here, a lender decides to appoint an LPA Receiver, the Receiver, once appointed, 
doesnt act as agent for the lender but for the borrower. What that means in practical terms 
is that Im unable to consider any concerns Mrs S may have about the actions of - and the 
decisions made by - the Receiver, because it isnt covered by the jurisdictional scope of our 
service. If Mrs S has any concerns about the Receivers actions  or omissions  then shell 
need to make that complaint directly to the Receiver themselves. I cant consider any of that 
in a complaint against Yorkshire.
We cant look at any complaint about the valuations because the companies that carried the 
valuations out arent businesses that are covered by our service, which means I dont have 
the legal power to look at complaints against them. Ive no power to consider a complaint 
against Yorkshire concerning the valuations, as the firms that gave the valuation figures and 
advice are completely separate businesses from Yorkshire.
We dont decide every complaint thats referred to us; even if our rules allow us to, we 
sometimes exercise our discretion not to deal with complaints due to their particular 
circumstances. The rules that set this out are referred to as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
rules and are laid down within the Financial Conduct Authority handbook. 
DISP rule 3.3.4A says the ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the 
Ombudsman considers that:
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would seriously impair the effective operation of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
DISP rule 3.3.4B says examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair 
the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:
(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded 
under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which the 
Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available to 
the complainant).
This point is relevant due to the previous complaints Mrs S has made about this mortgage, 
one of which related to the instruction of the LPA Receiver in that Mrs S said she cleared the 
arrears before the Receiver was instructed. As weve previously considered that element, I 
wont be deciding it again here.
I now turn to the parts of the complaint which I am considering.
Yorkshire had valuations carried out before it was marketed for sale in November 2017 and 
it again sought opinions each time the price was reduced, and the marketing strategy was 
changed. Yorkshire is required to get independent valuations and follow them in marketing 
the property. Thats what it did. It relied on the opinions of properly qualified professionals. I 
dont think it did anything wrong here.
Once it was discovered the property didnt have a kitchen it was valued at just £10,000 (not 
a reduction of £10,000 as Mrs S said in her response to the investigator). Mrs S has said 
shes found the money spent on the property to be incomprehensible, but weve been 
provided with all the information about this and everything seems to be in line. Shes also 
said the works have been done but the value has decreased from the original amount 
quoted of £109,950. But the original valuation was based on a completely different property 
size as at that time it was believed the kitchen was part of the property. When it was 
discovered the kitchen wasnt part of the property, a boundary wall needed to be moved and another room converted to become a kitchen, thus losing other living space. So, the 
property became smaller and the layout changed significantly.
A lender in possession should get the best price it can. But it shouldnt hold out too long for 
an unrealistically high price while interest on the debt mounts up. That isnt always an easy 
balance to strike, but I dont think Yorkshire got it wrong in this case. A property is only worth 
what a person is willing to pay for it, and the property was originally marketed at a higher 
amount. The price was reduced due to a lack of interest and it was only when it was reduced 
to £55,000 that interest picked up. The property has been marketed for sale on the open 
market since November 2018. So, if it was worth more then - quite simply - it would have 
sold for more at some point since then.
Mrs S has mentioned some things that have happened since the final response letter was 
issued in July 2019. Our rules state that a business must be given the opportunity to 
investigate and respond to any issues first, so Mrs S should refer these to Yorkshire as a 
new complaint if she wants them looked into. Mrs S may then be able to bring that as a new 
complaint to this service if she remains unhappy with the outcome.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman