DRN-4293091
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that the advice they received from Capital Professional 
Limited (CPL) to invest into Stirling Mortimer Cape Verde No.4 Fund wasnt suitable for 
them. They would like financial compensation for the loss they have incurred. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were advised in December 2007 to invest £50,000 into the Stirling Mortimer 
Cape Verde No.4 Fund (Stirling Mortimer Fund) by (the predecessor business of) CPL. In 
2021 they discovered that the Stirling Mortimer Fund wasnt likely to have any value and that 
the investment exposed them to a higher level of risk than their medium risk profile. They 
complained to CPL.
CPL thought that Mr and Mrs M had made their complaint too late under the time limits that 
apply. Mr and Mrs M then brought their complaint to this service. I decided that the complaint 
hadnt been made too late and the merits could be looked at. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld. She said;
The investment was classified as an unregulated collective investment scheme 
(UCIS) which was high risk.
There was limited information from the time of sale, but she didnt think that             
Mr and Mrs M were sophisticated or high-risk investors which would make them 
suitable candidates for a UCIS type investment.
She thought Mr and Mrs M should be compensated by comparing the performance of 
the Stirling Mortimer Fund with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index.
She also thought Mr and Mrs M should be paid £150 for the trouble and upset 
caused in trying to resolve the matter. 
CPL wasnt satisfied with the investigators opinion;
It was surprised the complaint was upheld based on the recollection of Mr and Mrs M 
bearing in mind no paperwork had been retained.
The investigator had said that Mr and Mrs Ms recollection was that their priority was 
to pay off their mortgage and raise their three children. They didnt have much 
savings at the time and Mr M didnt have an occupational pension. CPL couldnt 
agree that this tallied with Mr and Mrs M not being concerned about a 34% drop in 
the value of the investment which they were aware of in March 2018
If a decision could be made on recollections alone then Mr and Mrs M must recall the 
investigation into the Stirling Mortimer Fund carried out by the Serious Fraud Office in 
2018. 
CPL asked that the complaint be decided by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and broadly for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
There is limited documentary evidence available from the time of the sale. CPL told us it 
searched its paper archive files but hasnt been able to provide copies of documentation 
relating to the advice given to Mr and Mrs M in December 2007. I would say I dont find this 
surprising because of the time since the sale and businesses arent obliged to keep 
paperwork indefinitely. And Mr and Mrs M dont have any point-of-sale correspondence 
either.
In the absence of such evidence, I will consider Mr and Mrs Ms recollections from the time 
of the sale about their circumstances and investment objectives. Where there is little 
evidence available from the time of the sale and there is a dispute about what happened, 
Ive based my decision on the balance of probability and what I think most likely happened. 
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances
Mr and Mrs Ms recollections at the time of the 2007 sale are they were married with three 
children. They lived in their jointly owned home which was valued at around £220,000 with 
an outstanding mortgage of £12,000. 
Mr M was 53 years of age and had been self-employed since the mid-90s. He was mindful 
that he wouldnt have an occupational pension upon retirement so was keen to invest into a 
SIPP and would make lump sum contributions annually depending on how well his business 
had performed. 
Mrs M was 52 years of age and also employed, earning an annual salary of around £25,000.
Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk
Clearly Mr and Mrs M were seeking advice because they didnt have the knowledge or 
experience to make an investment decision unaided. CPL needs to be able to demonstrate 
that it gave suitable advice taking into account Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, 
understanding and knowledge after ascertaining their attitude to risk. 
But, as mentioned above, there is little documentary evidence to show how Mr and Mrs Ms 
investment objectives and attitude to risk were established or that it was discussed whether 
Mr and Mrs M had the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risk 
involved. But on the assumption that Mr and Mrs M say they knew their adviser for many 
years, and Mr M made annual lump sum contributions into his SIPP I dont think its 
unreasonable for me to assume they both had some investment experience, but I cant be 
sure to what extent.
In any event, Mr and Mrs M have said they were prepared to accept a medium attitude to 
risk with their investments. And with this in mind Ive reviewed the other investments they 
held within their portfolio from a valuation dated March 2018. I fully accept this is ten years 
later than when their Stirling Mortimer Fund investment took place. But in the absence of any 
other documents, Ive reviewed the level of risk I think their 2018 portfolio exposed them to 
and considered this along with their recollection of their circumstances and comments about 
their attitude to risk at the time the advice was given.  In March 2018 Mr and Mrs Ms joint assets were valued at just over £930,000 and comprised 
investments within Mr Ms pension plan, an investment bond, cash of £300,000 and the 
Stirling Mortimer Fund investment. The underlying investments within the pension wrappers 
and the investment bond are predominantly mainstream collective investments with 
exposure to both income and capital growth. And that along with the cash held (which I cant 
know if it was held for an intended purpose) suggest to me that  with the exception of the 
Stirling Mortimer Fund  the investments held within Mr and Mrs Ms portfolio exposed them 
to no more than a medium investment risk. 
Taking all of the above into consideration Im persuaded it was more likely that                    
Mr and Mrs M were willing to take some risk with their money. But not too much and not to 
the extent that they were advised to do  to invest into the Stirling Mortimer Fund. I say this 
bearing in mind what I think their capacity for risk was  and inevitably because of the time 
that has passed  based on the balance of probability because of the limited evidence about 
how the level of risk they were prepared to take was arrived at. Or equally, being given any 
evidence that would make me think differently.
The advice
In December 2007 Mr and Mrs M, upon the advice of CPL, invested £50,000 into the Stirling 
Mortimer Fund which was a UCIS. The Stirling Mortimer Fund was a higher risk investment 
exposed to overseas property development in Cape Verde.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has always considered UCIS to be high risk 
investments. On 1 November 2007 the FCA introduced legislation limiting the type of 
investor they can be promoted to. These included certified high net investors, certified 
sophisticated investors, and self-certified sophisticated investors. I havent seen any 
evidence, or anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs M would fit into any of those categories or 
would be viewed as sophisticated investors.
However, even ignoring the above, if I think there may have been a technical breach in the 
promotion rules, I still may conclude that the advice to invest was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, 
as part of their overall portfolio, and the breach didnt cause them to invest where they 
otherwise wouldnt have. But I dont think that is the case here.  
I say this because Mr and Mrs M told us they had known their adviser for decades and had 
built trust over those years and were implicitly reliant upon the advice they were given. They 
say that because of this they didnt doubt the Stirling Mortimer Fund was suitable for them 
when they were advised to invest. They say they were told it was registered in Jersey with 
bankers backing. It was promoted to them as a good investment and were told that once the 
properties under development were sold, the assets would be wound up and the investors 
paid up. 
Ive borne in mind that Mr and Mrs M say they were totally reliant upon the advice given to 
them  I am persuaded by this  and that they were advised the Stirling Mortimer Fund 
would expose them to a medium level of risk. I havent seen anything to suggest that they 
would have thought otherwise. And while Im satisfied that taking into account the 
investments held in 2018 and Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances they told us about, I accept it 
might have been the case that Mr and Mrs M did want to explore the opportunity to make 
their money grow, but I dont think that would have extended to exposure to an unregulated, 
higher risk investment exposed to overseas property development. 
And because of the time that has passed, and the lack of evidence or information to show 
how CPL assessed Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk for this investment I have to take into account what is known about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances and consider whether the 
investment recommended was suitable. Their investment behaviour and circumstances dont 
suggest to me that they wanted anything that would have exposed them to a higher than 
medium risk investment. So overall and on the balance of probabilities, I dont think the 
Stirling Mortimer Fund was suitable for and they shouldnt have been advised to invest. 
CPL has referred to the 2018 valuation that showed a 34.76% fall in value of the Stirling 
Mortimer Fund and that by not taking any action about this at the time, Mr and Mrs M were 
comfortable with the risk. I already decided this point in my jurisdiction decision so wont 
make any further comment. And similar applies to the investigation into the Stirling Mortimer 
Global Property Fund by the Serious Fraud Office in 2018. Mr and Mrs M were invested by 
this time, so this later investigation is irrelevant for their concerns about what they were told 
at the point of sale. 
Overall, and taking into account the limited point of sale documentation and what is known 
about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances and objectives at the time, I think their money invested 
into the Stirling Mortimer Fund was exposed to risks Im not persuaded they were willing or 
able to take. I am satisfied that the advice Mr and Mrs M were given in 2007 wasnt suitable 
for them taking account of their personal and financial circumstances that Ive already 
outlined.
So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I am upholding it. I think the advice 
wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs M. I also think that Mr and Mrs M should be paid £150 for the 
trouble and upset they have been caused. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put     
Mr and Mrs M as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested.
What must CPL do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs M fairly, CPL must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
CPL should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr and Mrs M £150 for the trouble and upset they have been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Stirling Still exists FTSE UK Date of Date of my 8% simple per Mortimer 
Cape Verde 
No.4 Fundbut illiquid Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexinvestment final decision year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr and Mrs M agree to CPL taking 
ownership of the investment if it wishes to. If it is not possible for CPL to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs M that they repay to CPL any amount 
they may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs M wanted income with some growth and were willing to accept some 
investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Capital Professional 
Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Capital Professional Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs M in a 
clear, simple format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman