DRN-4508606
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has 
handled a subsidence claim under their buildings insurance policy. 
Any reference to RSA includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr and Mrs P have a subsidence related building insurance claim that has been ongoing for
some time. Theyve made a number of complaints, some of which have been determined
previously. The scope of this complaint is for the period 22 December 2022 to 17 November 
2023  the latter being the date of RSAs final response.
The parties are well aware of the background, but the main concerns relate to poor 
communication, delays, incorrect information being provided, the scope of the repair work, 
the conduct of RSAs agents and RSAs handling of a complaint. 
In its final response, RSA accepted its service had fallen short in some areas and paid £450 
compensation to recognise this. It explained its contractor had refused to return to Mr and 
Mrs Ps property, and as it couldnt source an alternative contractor, the only remaining 
option is to arrange a cash settlement for outstanding works to be completed  which it said 
its in the process of calculating.
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An investigator 
considered it and was satisfied the amount of compensation awarded was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached  Ill explain why. But 
before I do, I want to explain that whilst Mr and Mrs P have provided lengthy submissions for 
consideration  including a detailed response to the Investigators view  my decision will not 
mirror this. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but rather reflects the informal nature of this 
Service. 
Communication and delays
RSA has apologised for occasions where its agent failed to respond to Mr and Mrs Ps 
emails in a timely manner - which resulted in them having to chase for a response. 
Understandably, this would have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs P  particularly when the 
issues were time sensitive and impacted the progression of the repairs. 
Its also disappointing to see Mr and Mrs P were incorrectly asked to pay another excess 
when it had already been deducted. Whilst this was quickly rectified  and RSA 
acknowledged there had been an administrative error in asking for it  this would have 
caused Mr and Mrs P avoidable distress and was another issue they had to deal with. RSA 
has said itll provide feedback to staff on the matter, which is what Id expect it to do in such 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P have also raised a concern about information included on a mandate and how 
this, together with comments from RSA suggested they could pay for additional works. This 
issue wasnt dealt with as part of its final response, but RSA has given consent for this 
Service to consider this issue as part of this complaint. 
RSA has explained the mandate is a standard mandate template which includes reference to 
additional costs - which the consumer is responsible for paying - as some of its contractors 
will carry these out. However, this didnt apply to Mr and Mrs Ps contractor as they only 
carried out like for like remedial works. RSA has said in hindsight the mandate could have 
been amended to avoid confusion  and I agree. And it accepts Mr and Mrs P had been 
incorrectly told its contractor could carry out additional works  which wasnt correct. So, Im 
satisfied RSA caused avoidable confusion in respect of this matter.
Mr and Mrs P were also provided incorrect information in respect of installing a skirting board 
in their conservatory  having been told it would be fitted, and then subsequently informed it 
wouldnt. Its not in dispute that the original conservatory didnt have skirting  so, I agree 
RSA arent required to include this in the scope of works. But I recognise it would have been 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs P to learn this wasnt going to be included in the works having 
been told it would be. 
And no doubt, these feelings of frustrations about RSAs communication were compounded 
when it provided unclear information in relation to a complaint Mr and Mrs P had made. 
Mr and Mrs P have also said RSA didnt make a VAT payment within the timeframe it had 
committed to. As Mr and Mrs P had already paid the contractor, the delay in payment 
caused them to worry about their finances and the potential for bank charges should they not 
have sufficient cleared funds. I havent been provided evidence to show the latter 
materialised, but I appreciate having to carefully manage their finances over this time was an 
additional strain for them and one that could have been avoided. 
Scope of works
RSA has said decorating the conservatory ceiling hasnt been included in the repair works 
because the original conservatory didnt have a plastered ceiling. Similar to above, RSA, 
when settling a claim, arent required to include works which would put the policy holder in a 
better position before the insured event  also known as betterment. In the absence of 
evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied RSAs decision to omit decorating the ceiling from the 
scope of works to be reasonable.
With regards to the repainting of doors  RSA has explained that as these werent damaged 
as a result of the subsidence, the doors havent been included in the scope of works. RSAs 
liability is only in respect of damage caused by an insured event, and as theres not 
persuasive evidence to show the damage to the doors is a result of the subsidence, its 
reasonably omitted this from the scope of works. Contractors conduct
Mr and Mrs P complained about the conduct of the contractors attending their house to 
complete the repair works. They say the contractors wore boots without protection and 
moved furniture in rooms they werent working in without agreement. RSA has said it would 
expect its contractors to have suitable coverings in place and has provided feedback  which 
is what I would expect it to do. 
RSA has said its contractors have refused to return to Mr and Mrs Ps property to complete 
the repair works. I appreciate this is of concern for Mr and Mrs P as they consider the 
grounds for doing so to be unfounded. The parties have given different accounts of what led 
to the contractors refusing to attend. Based on the available evidence, I cant say with 
certainty what did  or didnt  happen. But given Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with the 
contractors conduct and felt they needed to complain about it  and the contractors are 
refusing to reattend - Im satisfied theres enough to show a breakdown in the relationship. 
And so, I consider RSAs decision to cash settle the claim - having been unsuccessful in 
sourcing an alternative contractor  to be reasonable in the circumstances. 
Conclusion
Overall, Im satisfied RSA could have kept Mr and Mrs P better informed by providing clear 
information, a plan of the works, responding to emails in a timely manner and keeping to 
deadlines. Had this happened, the resulting delays could have been avoided. 
When I consider whats happened, Im satisfied compensation is warranted in the 
circumstances but as RSA has paid £450 to recognise the impact of its actions on Mr and 
Mrs P  and Im satisfied this amount is in line with awards this Service makes  I wont be 
asking it to increase this amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman