DRN-1719469
 
The complaint
Mr P has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Gain 
Credit LLC, trading at the time as Lending Stream. Mr P says he was lent to irresponsibly 
and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to LS throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Mr P took out 8 instalment loans from LS between February 2019 and 
June 2019. Ive enclosed a summary of his borrowing with LS, based on the information it 
provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
for loans 4 - 8. LS agreed to this and made an offer accordingly. But Mr P asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision as he wasnt happy. He still thought the early loans 
were inappropriately lent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ps complaint.
LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr P could 
repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken 
into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
LS should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, LS was required to establish whether 
Mr P could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loans being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr P could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
LS told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to Mr P 
including assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says all this information 
showed that he would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing to. Ive 
thought about this and also looked at the overall pattern of lending history with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which LS should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some point, LS should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans to Mr P. 
I think the financial checks which LS carried out in relation to Mr Ps loans were relatively 
basic ones. But taking account of what Ive said above, about the length of the lending 
relationship, I think for loans 1  3 these types of checks were probably appropriate. I dont 
think its clear enough that what LS would have would have seen, from its checks, suggested 
loans 1 - 3 were unaffordable for Mr P. I accept that Mr P may have already been finding 
managing money quite difficult at this point. However, theres no clear record that the type or 
depth of credit checks that were carried out at that time would have exposed these issues. 
So Im afraid I dont agree that LS knew its lending was unsustainable. I therefore dont 
uphold this part of the complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan number 4, the situation was different and this was 
comprehensively explained by our adjudicator. Mr Ps borrowing at this point was rapid, with 
4 loans in just a few weeks. He also applied for loan 4 whilst other loans were still 
outstanding. The lending relationship was therefore becoming more established.
So overall, I think all these factors should have combined to show Mr Ps financial situation 
demanded much greater scrutiny and clarification. In short, LS ought to have carried out 
more comprehensive checks to ensure the lending was sustainable from this point. Had it 
carried out such checks, these would have easily revealed that Mr P was in fact 
experiencing difficulties in managing money. As well as his outstanding LS loans, he had 
other short-term lending outstanding with other companies, meaning that he was elsewhere 
indebted and most probably having to use borrowed money to pay other loans off.
Our experience of short-term lending tells us that consumers who have difficulty managing 
their money are less likely to be able to sustainably repay a loan. More thorough and 
proportionate financial checks at this point would have clearly shown that Mr P had little 
room for manoeuvre and so I think it was wrong to lend to him from loan 4 onwards. In 
fairness, LS has accepted this.Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr P, LS should:
refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans 4 - 8;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to loans 4 - 
8.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr P a certificate showing 
how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Gain Credit LLC to put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Appendix
Loan Date Taken Out Date Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest Monthly 
Repayment
1 28/02/2019 28/02/2019 Instalment £600 £194.52
2 04/03/2019 19/03/2019 Instalment £400 £126.24
3 07/03/2019 19/03/2019 Instalment £350 £234.45
4 11/03/2019 19/03/2019 Instalment £190 £291.11
5 05/04/2019 05/04/2019 Instalment £840 £263.75
6 22/04/2019 07/05/2019 Instalment £370 £126.25
7 02/05/2019 07/05/2019 Instalment £570 £308.44
8 22/06/2019 31/08/2019 Instalment £840 £286.95
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman