DRN-2696667
The complaint
R complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have been overcharging them, when 
making international bank transfers.
What happened
R says they have been making international bank transfers for a number of years through 
their bank account with NatWest and over this time they have been overcharged for 
payments to a European destination. Following an international bank transfer to Moldova, R 
says they complained to NatWest as it had charged fees that related to countries outside of 
Europe although Moldova is a European country. R says NatWests assumption that 
Moldova is not in Europe isnt correct and the international payment they made was sent to 
an intermediary bank in Germany  therefore, this also meets the definition of the destination 
being in Europe. R wishes NatWest to refund the difference in charges incurred for 
international payments levied at the rest of the world cost, rather than Europe, as it should 
have. R also wants NatWest to pay compensation for their mistake and the inconvenience it 
has caused.
NatWest say the charges they have levied are correct and meets the definition set out in its 
Urgent Transfer and Standard Transfer Service Terms. NatWest says the charges are based 
on the destination country and not of the intermediary bank involved in the transfer. 
R wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Rs complaint. The 
investigator says NatWest have correctly applied the international payment fees as 
described in their international payment tariff. The investigator says Moldova was the 
destination country and not the intermediary banks location to determine the correct fees. 
He says, NatWests definition of Moldova as being a country outside of Europe, for these 
purposes, was correct and met the terms set out in their international payment tariff. 
R wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand the frustration caused to R when it seemed clear to them the beneficiary 
bank, where monies had been sent to, was in Europe and not outside, and any international 
payment charges levied should reflect that. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
NatWest acted reasonably, when they charged international payment fees for payments 
made to a beneficiary in Moldova, treating it as a rest of the world country, with higher fees 
as a result. 
R have confirmed they have made many payments to this destination and have previously 
contested with NatWest the international fees should be based on Moldova being a 
European country and not classified as outside. R says this culminated in a complaint they 
raised with NatWest following a payment it made in May 2019, and NatWest responded to 
them in August 2019. 
R have provided this service with various points supporting their view that NatWests 
interpretation of Moldovas location as being outside of Europe doesnt conform to the 
generally accepted view, that it is. In addition, R makes the point that NatWest sent the 
payment to an intermediary bank in Germany and their involvement with the international 
payment ended there, so their charges should in any event be based on Germany as the 
destination of the payment and not Moldova. R says, either way, NatWest should be 
charging their international fees based on payments to Europe and not the rest of the world, 
which carries an extra cost of £12. R says they have made regular payments to Moldova 
over many years and feel NatWest have continually overcharged them based on its 
interpretation of Moldovas location as outside of Europe.
I understand the points R have made and its important to say that even if R believes 
Moldova is a country in Europe, what matters here is whether NatWest determine it as so 
when making their international payment charges and if their tariff of charges is clear on that. 
Its important to say that on each international payment form, Sending a Payment Abroad, 
completed by R, it does state at the bottom of the form under section 12:
 I/we have read and agree to be bound by the Terms and Conditions .
Those terms and conditions are available upon request, and its fair to say that its Rs 
responsibility to make sure these are understood, before instructing any international 
payments to be made. The terms and conditions provided to this service show under Section 
1: 
 Europe means all European Union members {and associated territories) and from time to 
time European Member States (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway) as well as Monaco, San 
Marino and Switzerland.
When considering this I am satisfied this gives a clear definition of what NatWest consider to 
be Europe when it comes to the destination of international payments. While R may not 
agree with that definition, Moldova arent a European Union Member, associated territory or 
European Member state so it doesnt meet NatWests definition of Europe. It follows, I am 
satisfied international payments to Moldova are outside of NatWests definition of Europe, for 
the purposes of making international payments, and Its not my role to tell them they must 
change this. 
The other point R makes is the international payment to Moldova is via Germany, through an 
intermediary bank there. R says that bank isnt an agent but the principal bank in the transfer 
and as a result it should only pay charges for the payment to Germany, which is in Europe. 
Like the investigator its fair to say that many banks like NatWest will use intermediary banks 
when they dont hold a direct relationship between them and the beneficiary bank, which will 
incur additional fees and these are set out in their international payment tariff, which states: 
When sending an international payment outside of an EU/EEA Member State, the receiving 
bank(s) (either intermediary and/or beneficiary bank) will usually apply a fee for handling the 
payment before crediting the beneficiarys account.  Its also clear in the tariff of charges for making international payments, provided to this 
service,  a payment to the rest of the world carries a higher fee to that of Europe, so I cant 
say that R wouldnt have been aware of this or other charges that would apply when using 
an intermediary bank. 
Using an intermediary bank doesnt mean NatWest arent the principal bank in these 
transactions. I say this as NatWest are the bank with whom R  has a relationship, and has 
given the instructions to make the payment, not the intermediary bank here. 
Its also worth mentioning NatWest have highlighted in their terms and conditions  the 
destination country is the country in which the account of the Beneficiary is domiciled, and I 
am satisfied this is where the charges are determined. 
It follows, as I have said before, while R has its own understanding of where Moldova is 
domiciled, thats not to say NatWest must also see it that way, when they decide upon how it 
charges for international payments sent to that country, for the reasons I have given. 
R, like all consumers, have the opportunity to see if other banks have a direct relationship 
with banks in Moldova or charge less for transferring payments there, but that is for them to 
look into. 
It follows, while R will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
NatWest here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman