DRN-3250486
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain, via their representative, that Henderson Investment Funds Limited 
has been unable to locate one of their investments.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out two investments, each worth £2,000 in 2001. They believe these 
investments were transferred between several companies over the years, before being 
acquired by Henderson. One of the investments was surrendered in 2013, but Mr and Mrs O 
have been unable to locate the second one. They say they havent surrendered it - they 
believe its gone missing and that there must have been an error during one of the transfers.
Henderson has checked its records and has only been able to locate information about the 
investment surrendered in 2013. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as they felt 
there was nothing to show the second investment had ever been transferred to Henderson.
As Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the investigator, the case has been passed to me.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it must be frustrating for Mr and Mrs O as theyre unable to obtain information 
about what happened to their second investment. Their representative has argued that while 
they agree Henderson hasnt done anything wrong, they still feel it is ultimately responsible 
for the loss of the investment. However, I dont agree.
Mr and Mrs O have provided evidence of this investment, including an application form, 
contract note and a cheque for £2,000. So, Im satisfied that it did commence in March 2001. 
However, I havent seen any evidence to show what happened to it from this point on.
For me to find Henderson responsible for the loss of the investment, Id need to be satisfied 
that, on balance, it was responsible for the management of the investment in the first place. 
But Ive seen no evidence to show the investment ever transferred to Henderson or that 
Henderson ever managed it. 
Henderson has been able to locate the other investment and holds some historic information 
about accounts from the previous company it acquired. It hasnt found any evidence of the 
second investment in its archives, so on balance I think its more likely to have been sold or 
transferred prior to Hendersons involvement.
Based on what Ive been provided with, Im unable to say what happened to Mr and Mrs Os 
second investment. And I must base my decision on what is more likely, on the balance of 
probabilities. Having considered that, I cannot say Henderson was responsible for the 
investment, or that it is responsible for it being lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman