DRN-3680902
The complaint
Mr M complains that Society of Lloyds (SoL) has unfairly settled a claim under his all risks 
marine insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr M or SoL includes any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr M holds an all risks SoL insurance policy for his vessel.
In August 2021 damage was caused to the vessel following the failure of a raw water 
intake hose. This led to a loss of power, flooding and damage to the two engines. 
The Starboard engine was flooded, and the spray of the split hose caused water to 
enter the Port engine. Both engines stopped, and the vessel impacted a marina 
pontoon and subsequently ran aground, damaging the hull.
Mr M sought to claim on his SoL policy. SoL considered this and agreed to pay for 
damage to the hull, but it declined the cost of the two engines. It relied on two 
exclusions within the policy that said:
a) loss or damage arising through or consequent upon loss of use, wear and tear 
and natural decay
And
f) electrical or mechanical breakdown, failure or lack of performance unless 
caused by fire or explosion or the insured Vessel or Craft being sunk, stranded or 
coming into contact with any external substance (other than water) or being 
immersed as a result of heavy weather
It said the hose in question failed due to wear and tear so the damage to the engines 
had arisen from this, and the engine damage amounted to mechanical breakdown 
from resultant water ingress that wasnt caused by one of the listed items above.
SoL also highlighted Mr Ms obligations under the policy, which say.
The Assured must act prudently and as if uninsured, at all times, to minimise 
loss and/or damage to the insured Vessel or Craft and to protect any recovery 
rights that are available. Failure by the Assured to act in accordance with these 
conditions may prejudice the claim being made under the Policy.
And
The Assured musttake reasonable measures to safeguard or recover the 
insured Vessel or Craft, avoid or minimise any loss, damage or expense to the 
insured Vessel or Craft. Insurers will pay the costs of such measures provided 
that they are both reasonable and necessary"
It outlined the service history of the vessel, saying services were missed for 2018, 
2020, and 2021. And that the invoices for the available services (2015, 2016, 2017 
and 2019) showed the engine hoses hadnt been checked as they shouldve been  
which was also reflected in the photographs of the damage. It concluded the hoses 
had gone without inspection since 2015.
Mr M complained, providing comments from two separate marine engineers who said 
the event could not have reasonably been foreseen. Mr M acknowledged age 
wouldve contributed towards what happened, but said the engineers comments 
supported that there was no way of knowing the damage was occurring. This was 
due to the damage occurring underneath the jubilee clip so wouldve been hidden 
from inspection. Mr M also said he had a full-service history and provided records of 
this between 2015 and 2020.
Mr M highlighted that the vessels manufacturer did not recommend a lifespan of 
hoses, only that they are checked at services. Mr M also said the photographs SoL 
relied on were taken some two and a half weeks after the incident and had been 
exposed to sea water which had led to their level of corrosion which hadnt previously 
been present. And Mr M provided details of the Port engine hose which was without 
damage, despite having the same maintenance and services as the Starboard one 
throughout its life.
Mr M also said the engineers who serviced the vessel would only include costs 
related to the necessary works being completed, and shouldnt be taken as a 
statement of all works completed  which was even true of Company G who are the 
respective manufacturers regional centre.
Since the incident, the vessel has now been repaired and Mr M is seeking 
£38,340.62 for these costs. 
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
it was clear the policy didnt cover loss or damage caused by wear and tear, and the 
damage in question appeared to be due to a hose failing due to wear and tear. 
The Investigator said it seemed the relevant maintenance schedule required hoses to 
be checked, and this simply hadnt happened. So, he felt it was reasonable for SoL to 
rely on this exclusion in the circumstances.
SoL agreed, saying the part in question that failed has a life expectancy, so it was 
reasonable to expect Mr M to have known it would need replacing at some point. It 
gave the analogy of a cam belt on a motor vehicle, saying it is understood at some 
point the part will inevitably fail and the insurance wasnt designed to cover that.
Mr M disagreed, he reiterated many of his concerns and said:
oSoL had accepted the hull damage originated from an unbroken chain of 
events from the hose  so it wasnt clear why it declined the Port engine.
oThe annual services followed manufacturers recommendations outlined in 
the Owners manual. And these regular services show Mr M had met his 
obligation to have the vessel maintained.
oSoLs surveyor had commented that the Owners manual doesnt provide a 
recommended interval for changing hoses  only that they are checked, 
which is what the engineers had done at each service.
oThe policy specified ordinary wear and tear is excluded, and in this case the 
wear and tear were not visible generally, pre-trip or at service inspection.
oIf SoL required invoices to reference each and every check listed in the 
Owners manual, this was not clear from its schedule.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change his mind. So, the complaint was passed to 
me for an Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional thoughts on 17 August 2022. Ive included an extract of these below.
Mr M holds an all risks policy. This says:
An All Risks policy covers damage due to some fortuitous circumstance or casualty, 
that is to say, an event occurring by accident or chance. These words should not be 
understood to cover all damage howsoever caused. Such damage as is inevitable 
from ordinary wear and tear and inevitable depreciation is not covered within the 
Policy.
In this case, the facts of how the damage occurred isnt in dispute. And it seems all parties 
are in agreement the origin of the damage came from the failed hose, which most likely 
occurred due to wear and tear  at least as a contributing factor to its failure.
What is in dispute, is whether SoL has fairly and reasonably declined this claim in line with 
its policy terms. Ill consider these in turn.
Wear and tear
SoL has been clear that wear and tear isnt covered by its policy.
So, I need to ask if it is reasonable to have expected Mr M to have been aware of this 
damage occurring over time. In doing so, Im going to consider the obligations Mr M has as a 
policyholder. Under your obligations it says:
The insured Vessel or Craft must be maintained and kept in a seaworthy condition 
and all mandatory safety requirements and manufacturers recommended practices 
as stated in the Owners Manual, shall be complied with.
Mr M has provided evidence of a full service history from 2015 until 2020.
SoL has said the invoices do not show the requirements set out in the Owners manual were 
met. Specifically, the invoices do not comment on the checking of the hoses.
Ive reviewed all of these carefully, and Im not persuaded by SoLs comments here. I say 
this as the vessel has been serviced by a number of different Marine engineers across this 
time. The level of detail between the invoices differs between them, but I think its fair to say 
none of these invoices provides a list of every single check or requirement outlined in the 
Owners manual.
Using the comparison of a service for a motor vehicle, I would note the invoices provided 
from garages are usually generic, often with just the works completed and charged for listed.
I note that one of these Marine engineers who completed a service is specifically the 
manufacturers appointed centre for a region in the UK and their website describes many 
years of working with this particular manufacturers products and services. So, reviewing all 
of these circumstances, it appears to be that a number of well qualified and suitably 
experienced engineers have serviced Mr Ms vessel since hes owned it. And while their 
invoices may not reflect every check within the Owners manual, it seems most likely to me 
that these were still completed as part of the service as Mr M has said.
SoL has provided a photo of the damage which shows rust. Mr M has put forward that this 
part had rusted in the weeks that passed since the damage occurred due to its exposure to 
salt water following the incident. And hes pointed to the hose on the Port engine that is the 
same age and has had the same maintenance and servicing which is without damage or rust. I think this is a plausible explanation in the circumstances and persuades me the 
damage most likely wasnt there prior to the incident.
Mr M has also provided commentary from two marine engineers. Ive included extracts of 
their comments below. The first is from Company S:
I can confirm that a visual inspection of the engines would not have been identified 
what was happening to the hose.
This is because the damage occurred under the jubilee clip and would only have 
become apparent when the engine was running, i.e. when the hose had built up 
sufficient pressure (30psi) so that it bulged out from under the jubilee clip, which 
resulted in water being sprayed around the engine bay. This can also be seen in the 
photographic evidence provided, in the pre and post removal of the jubilee clip.
Given the location of the split, I cant see how anyone, even an engineer let alone an 
owner, could have mitigated what happened. [Manufacturer] do not specify any time 
span or engine hours for replacing the hoses; only that they should be checked.
The second is from Company M:
I concur with the engineers view on the matter. It would have been impossible to 
project or mitigate against an incident like this. If the defect cannot be physically 
sighted then whether this be the owner, engineer or surveyor supposed to comment 
and take evasive action.
As highlighted in previous email chains and reports, the removal of jubilee clips is not 
part of [Manufacturers] maintenance schedule.
In my opinion, this incident could not of been prevented. It is clear from the invoices 
that the vessel/engines are maintained in accordance with the manufacturers 
recommendations and therefore nothing else could have been done to prevent this.
I think these comments are persuasive, and further support that this issue wouldnt have 
been picked up within a service as there was no requirement to remove jubilee clips. And so 
even if I agreed with SoL that the services did not include the relevant checks outlined in the 
Owners manual  which I dont  it seems this wouldnt have changed anything as the 
damage appears to be underneath the clip and not visible.
But in any event, I have to consider what Mr M knew at this point. And I think its reasonable 
for him to have believed the vessels engine was without issue if the services never picked 
up on any issues with the hose in question. After all, the engineers here are the experts, and 
I dont think it would be reasonable to place a greater onus on him (in these circumstances) 
to have checked this particular hose in more detail than the engineers who inspected it and 
serviced the engine.
SoL has put forward that the hose in question is akin to a cam belt, and therefore it would be 
common knowledge of a motorist that this part will fail over time so its breakdown is not 
fortuitous. But in my experience of dealing with motor insurance complaints, vehicle 
manufacturers often set recommended guidelines for replacement of timing belts. And 
theyre usually part of a specified service at certain mileage and age. So, Im not persuaded 
by SoLs analogy here as theres no evidence that the vessel hose had a particular lifespan, 
and Im persuaded it was checked at each service.
For these reasons I think Mr M has demonstrated that he acted reasonably and prudently 
and took appropriate steps to maintain his vessel as he was required. While I acknowledge 
the damage to the hose may have occurred as a result of wear and tear, the subsequent water damage wasnt an inevitable consequence of this. And I simply dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable in these circumstances for SoL to decline the claim on this basis.
Electrical or mechanical breakdown
The policy is clear that it will not cover an electrical or mechanical breakdown, failure or lack 
of performance unless this was caused by fire, explosion or if the vessel had been sunk, 
stranded or came into contact with any external substance (excluding water) or being 
immersed as a result of heavy weather.
The facts here show the hose failing led to water entering the Starboard engine, and 
spraying into the Port engine. So, on its face, I can understand why SoL has concluded this 
exclusion applies as put simply, water entered the engines which caused their failure.
But again, I have to determine what is fair and reasonable when considering SoLs decision.
So, Ive thought about the intention of this exclusion. In its everyday use a boat or vessel is 
going to be in constant contact with water. And I think its an understandable risk for the 
insurer to not want to cover as within its day to day usage of the boat, theres a potential high 
exposure to water. But the policy is clear that there are circumstances where it will cover 
damage caused by water in situations of the vessel sinking or being immersed due to heavy 
weather. Thats understandable because of the fortuitous and one-off nature of the risk 
occurring.
In this instance, the water entered both of the engines as a direct result of the failing hose  
which Im satisfied for the reasons given above, was a one off and fortuitous event. And I 
think it would be reasonable in this instance to consider these circumstances to be directly 
consequential damage of the initial event beginning with the Starboard engines hose.
Taking into account the above, and the wider intention of the policy which is designed to 
cover a fortuitous circumstance or casualty and one that occurring by accident or chance, 
I think it would be both fair and reasonable for SoL to settle the claim for both of the engines 
in line with its remaining policy terms.
Hull
The hull damage to the vessel was accepted by SoL. While theres been some back and 
forth since over whether this shouldve been paid at all, SoL hasnt withdrawn this part of the 
claim. So, I see no need to comment on it any further.
I concluded that for these reasons I intended to uphold the complaint and direct Society of 
Lloyds to settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms, adding 8% simple interest.
SoL disagreed, and in summary said:
It said the reports I had relied upon had not been shared with it previously. The 
expert commentary was shared with SoL. It confirmed it had seen these but said Mr 
M had not commissioned a detailed survey and report to support his position so it 
questioned the weight placed on the commentary. And it said it might be reasonable 
to assume the authors of those comments had carried out the previous servicing, 
suggesting bias in their intention.
It said its own independent expert said they do not agree there would have been no 
way of knowing the hose would fail from a visual inspection, and referred me to the 
Owners manual which says the following checks should be completed every 200 
hours or 12 months (whichever is soonest) - inspection of exhaust hose and cooling water hoses, check hoses/pipes, unions, and hose clamps, check the condition of all 
rubber hoses, and re-tighten hose clamps
And that the jubilee clip that was undisturbed for a number of years was evidence the 
required checks werent carried out.
SoL reiterated concerns about the service documents and the detail within them.
SoL stated the mechanical breakdown clause is a perils based clause which 
specifically lists the circumstances under which cover may / may not apply. And it 
said this is not a clause which should be interpreted to operate any wider than this 
and to do so is counter to how the insurance contract operates and the approach I 
suggested would remove the ability of an insurer to be specific as to the things they 
are and are not willing to cover. And the clause was there to protect SoLs exposure 
to exactly this type of loss and my proposed interpretation of this clause would 
effectively render it impossible to apply, which wasnt fair or reasonable.
SoL also stated my proposed decision was counter to decisions made by many 
different insurers over time. And it felt if this matter went to court that a court would 
agree with its position on the how the clause should operate.
Mr M reviewed these comments and provided his own commentary in response:
He had used qualified marine engineers to carry out around £25,000 of maintenance 
and servicing across a five year period so had done what he reasonable couldve 
done to mitigate any loss.
There was no rust around the jubilee clip or hose so it wasnt possible to determine 
any problem occurring.
All expert commentary was previously shared with SoL and Mr M noted these had 
never been referred to as reports by either him or this Service.
Any allegation of bias of the engineers could equally be attributed to the insurers 
own position in denying liability.
The insurers surveyor had not been present when servicing the vessel so its 
assessment is retrospective and suggests the servicing engineers ignored 
degradation  which didnt make sense as its business model was to identify and 
charge for repair and replacing failing parts.
Mr M said he was aware of the obligations outlined in the Owners manual and 
reiterated there was no specified time on replacement of the hoses.
Mr M said if servicing carried out by qualified marine engineers wasnt sufficient as 
proof a vessel was serviced and maintained, he questioned what would satisfy SoL. 
Ive received and considered the responses following my provisional decision and all 
timeframes set for further submissions has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I take on board SoLs comments that the expert commentary Mr M has provided is 
not a report, and its comments regarding potential bias. And when considering this 
evidence previously and deciding what weight to place on this evidence, I had taken these factors into account. And with those factors in mind, I want to be clear I havent 
been given anything that persuades me the comments made were not an accurate 
reflection of the authors opinion. So, this hasnt changed my mind. 
Ive taken into account SoLs comments regarding the Owners manual. This is a 
document I had considered previously, and as I outlined in my provisional decision, 
the checks do not specify the removal of jubilee clips. Im satisfied the photographic 
evidence supports there was most likely no rust around them prior to the incident, so 
it wouldnt be reasonable for Mr M to have been aware of this. And while I think its 
most likely the services carried out the appropriate checks, it wouldnt have changed 
anything anyway as the damage was underneath the clip and not visible.
In regards to the service documents provided, I have nothing to add on this topic 
beyond what I have said previously. Im satisfied Mr M has had his vessel serviced 
by a number of well qualified and suitably experienced engineers and the service 
documentation is in line with what Id expect to see  and I think it is unreasonable 
and impractical in the circumstances for SoL to expect the documentation to reflect 
every check and consideration taken into account when servicing the vessel. 
SoL has suggested my interpretation of the mechanical breakdown clause is wrong 
and would have industrywide ramifications.
I want to be clear my decision is based on the specific circumstances of Mr Ms 
complaint. And as Ive outlined previously, I agree with SoL that the policy states it 
specifically excludes the mechanical breakdown of a vessel if it was caused by water. 
And Ive explained why, taking into account the intention of this exclusion, I think its 
understandable for an insurer to not want to cover water related risks to its electrics 
or mechanics within the day to day usage of a vessel. 
My role requires me to not only consider whether policy terms are applied accurately, 
but what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. And here, the 
policy is clear that there are circumstances where it will cover damage caused by 
water in situations of the vessel sinking or being immersed due to heavy weather  
which is understandable because of the fortuitous and one-off nature of the risk 
occurring. And here, the water entered both engines as a direct result of the sudden 
failing of the hose  which Im satisfied was a one off and fortuitous event.
So, taking everything into account, including the wider intention of the policy to cover 
a fortuitous circumstance or casualty and one that occurring by accident or 
chance, Im still satisfied in these particular circumstances it would be fair and 
reasonable for SoL to settle the claim for both of the engines in line with its remaining 
policy terms.
SoL has commented about its prospects of success if this matter were considered by 
a court. When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations, regulators 
rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time, as required by my role.
Albeit hypothetical at this point, its possible a court may reach a conclusion as SoL 
believes. A court would focus on the interpretation of the contract of insurance, and 
while I have explained my thoughts on the relevant terms in this case, my remit is to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This is a wider 
approach than a court has. And Ive detailed why, in the particular circumstances of 
Mr Ms case, I consider it fair and reasonable for SoL to settle his claim.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, and I direct Society of Lloyd's to do the following.
settle Mr Ms claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy;
pay 8% simple interest from the date Mr M paid for repairs until the date the 
settlement is paid. 
If SoL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman