DRN-2194291
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) wrongly held a named driver listed on 
his motor insurance policy responsible for damage to a third-party vehicle, and so registered 
a fault claim against his policy.
What happened
Mr M had a motor insurance policy which was underwritten by Zenith. In January 2020, a 
named driver on the policy was accused of scraping an unoccupied parked car while 
manoeuvring. The named driver denied making any contact with the third-party car.
Zenith asked an independent engineer, whom Ill call B, to investigate. B inspected both cars 
and CCTV footage of the incident. Following this, Zenith said there was impact damage to 
both vehicles at roughly the same height, although not exactly matching. After viewing the 
video evidence, Zenith also thought, on the balance of probabilities, that a slight impact had 
occurred.
Zenith told Mr M that it would accept liability for the damage to the third-partys car, and 
would treat this as a fault claim on Mr Ms insurance record. Mr M complained to us about 
this.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He noted that Mr Ms 
policy allowed Zenith to take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim. 
However, he said Zenith had to be fair to Mr M in settling the claim. Having considered what 
had happened, he thought Zenith had unfairly held Mr M at fault for the following reasons:
the quality of the CCTV wasnt particularly clear, it was taken from a poor angle, and 
though the two cars got very close he didnt think it showed them touching;
in its report to Zenith, B couldnt say if the cars touched. B said, I cant make any 
conclusion from the video, but it would appear to me that if contact were made then it 
would've been at the offside rear wing - rear bumper where it meets the wing";
B was unable to confirm if the damage to the third-partys car was done by Mr Ms 
car. This was likely because the cars werent inspected together, and the report for 
Mr Ms car said I'm unable to ascertain if the damage found is related to the reported 
incident under review; and
the investigator didnt think the damage to the two cars lined up. He said the damage 
to the third-partys car was at approximately 46-49 cm above ground level, whereas 
the damage to Mr Ms car was at approximately 40cm above ground level. Zenith 
thought this minimal difference in height could be due to speed, acceleration and 
suspension on Mr Ms car.
However, the CCTV showed Mr Ms car moving very slowly when manoeuvring; so 
he felt there was a discrepancy with the heights. Also, the pictures of Mr Ms car 
appeared to show scuff marks in a reddish colour, when both his and the third-partys 
cars were silver.
The investigator recommended that Zenith should:
remove this collision from any internal or external databases;
ensure that Mr Ms no claim discount (NCD) wasnt affected (if applicable); and
pay Mr M £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
Zenith responded to say, in summary, that its senior engineer had reviewed the CCTV 
footage and advised that there was a minor collision which was only apparent when studying 
the footage in detail and closely. It thought the extent of the damage sustained as shown in 
the images support a very minor coming together.
The third partys claim for vehicle repairs amount to a labour cost of £40, which was less 
than an hours work, and the bulk of repair costs was for a new bumper cover. So it didnt 
believe an incorrect decision had been made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that I have come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Mr Ms policy document gave Zenith power, in dealing with any claim under the policy, to 
carry out the defence or settlement of any claim. This is a very wide power which is 
commonly found in insurance policies. While we dont think it is unfair in itself, we will look to 
see that it is exercised fairly and reasonably by an insurer.
In this case, the evidence that Mr Ms car had collided with the third-partys car and had 
damaged it was slight. Neither B nor the investigator could say from the CCTV images that 
the two cars had actually touched. Ive also viewed the CCTV on a standard screen, and 
was unable to identify any contact.
Zenith says it can make out minor contact after very close examination. However, even if 
that is the case, it must be limited to slight rubbing of the two bumpers as the cars passed. 
There are two areas of damage on the third-partys bumper, and because of where they are 
positioned they cant both be explained by this. In fact, for the reasons the investigator 
explained, I dont think the damage on Mr Ms bumper lines up with either of them.
It was for the third-party or his insurer to show, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr Ms 
car collided with his car and caused the damage he complains about. On the balance of 
probabilities, I dont think Mr Ms car was responsible for the damage to the third-partys car. 
So I dont think Zenith acted fairly in accepting liability for this on Mr Ms behalf. 
 
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Zenith should take the actions, and pay the money, set out below 
in my final decision.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Zenith Insurance plc to:
1. remove any mention in relation to Mr M of this collision and damage from any internal and external databases;
2. ensure that Mr Ms NCD is unaffected by this event; and
3. pay Mr M compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of 
this event has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman