DRN-3987892
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) didnt contact her about arrears on her 
mortgage for several years, and this has exacerbated her financial difficulties as well as her 
health conditions.
What happened
Ms M has a mortgage with BOS. In 2012, the mortgage fell into arrears. Ms M says she 
understood that the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) was making her mortgage 
payments, as she was receiving other benefit payments  and she didnt realise until her 
support worker contacted BOS in 2019 that this hadnt been happening. 
By August 2022, the mortgage arrears came to just under £20,000. In response to Ms Ms 
complaint, BOS sent Ms M £100 compensation. It accepted that it hadnt contacted her 
about the arrears as it should have done between 2015 and 2019. 
However, BOS also said it had been in contact with Ms M after her mortgage had gone into 
arrears in 2012, including discussing the arrears with her and sending her a number of 
letters about them until late 2014. It had also sent statements each year. It thought Ms M 
knew about the arrears, and said it wouldnt have agreed to a new interest rate product while 
there were arrears. 
Ms M got in touch with the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator said that BOSs 
offer of compensation was fair. She thought the evidence indicated that Ms M knew her 
mortgage was in arrears, despite the lack of contact from BOS. She noted that BOS is aware 
of Ms Ms vulnerabilities and said she would expect it to work with Ms M to try to come to an 
arrangement for the mortgage payments if possible.
Ms M didnt accept that outcome, and her adviser replied on her behalf. They said Ms M 
hadnt received any correspondence at all from BOS between 2015 and 2019, including 
annual statements. They also said Ms M felt the severity of her health conditions and the 
impact of BOSs lack of communication hadnt been taken into account, and £100 was 
nowhere near enough to reflect that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise Ms M will be very disappointed, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our Investigator, for much the same reasons.
First of all, I understand that Ms M has longstanding and severe health problems. I was sorry 
to read about this, and I have kept it in mind in making my decision. BOS has confirmed that 
it is aware Ms M is vulnerable, and I would expect it also to bear that in mind in working with 
Ms M and her advisers to try to find a way forward for the mortgage.
Theres no dispute that BOS has made mistakes: it accepts that it failed to contact Ms M 
about the arrears on her mortgage between 2015 and 2019. I can certainly see that Ms M 
was caused some distress and upset when contact then resumed in 2019, by which time the 
arrears had increased significantly. Nonetheless, having carefully considered all the 
available evidence, I think it would be difficult to conclude other than that Ms M knew about 
the arrears before this. 
BOS has provided records of its contact with Ms M since 2012. They include records of 
several calls with Ms M in 2012 and 2013 and of subsequent legal action, which I briefly 
summarise as follows:
- On a call in October 2012, Ms M said she wasnt aware the DWP had stopped making 
payments to the mortgage; she would contact the DWP and get back in touch with BOS.
- In November 2012, Ms M called to say she had an appeal ongoing with the DWP, and in 
the meantime she would ensure the mortgage payments were maintained. She said she 
would also pay just over £30 extra each month towards the arrears. 
- For the following few months, Ms M called each month to make a card payment. 
- By December 2013, the mortgage arrears had increased. Following contact from BOS, 
Ms M said she wasnt aware the DWP hadnt been making payments to the mortgage, 
but this had been sorted out and BOS would receive a payment from the DWP, 
backdated to April 2013.
- In August 2014, BOS noted that the phone number it had for Ms M was no longer valid, 
and it sent a letter to her about the arrears, which at the time were around £2,500.
- BOS went on to instruct solicitors; court hearings followed in late 2014 and early 2015 
but both were adjourned. 
BOS also says it wrote to Ms M about the arrears on her mortgage a number of times 
between October 2012 and October 2014. In addition it says it sent annual statements 
setting out the arrears position, although I note what Ms M has said about not having 
received them. 
The available evidence and surrounding circumstances indicate that Ms M knew about the 
arrears and she discussed them with BOS in 2012 and 2013. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Ms M then received confirmation that anything had changed and her mortgage 
payments were being made by other means. 
Ms M says BOS should reduce the interest rate it has charged her, in the light of what has 
happened and her difficult circumstances. BOS has explained why it wouldnt have offered 
Ms M a fixed interest rate product while her mortgage was in arrears: to do so would run the 
risk of an early repayment charge being incurred if Ms M continued to be unable to afford the 
mortgage payments and if the property ultimately had to be taken into possession. So a 
lower, fixed rate could end up costing Ms M more. 
I think this explanation was reasonable, and its common practice for a lender to want to 
satisfy itself that a borrower can afford the monthly mortgage payments before agreeing to 
an interest rate product. And in terms of fees, I note that in 2018 BOS says it refunded the 
arrears management fees it had added to the mortgage since 2012, plus interest on those 
fees  so Ms M hasnt lost out because fees were added to her mortgage that she didnt 
know about.In all the circumstances, I think Ms M was aware her mortgage was in arrears, and I 
consider the £100 payment of compensation BOS has made to her in recognition of the 
impact its failings had on her is fair and reasonable.
I understand that Ms M is now receiving help from a money adviser, and BOS is reviewing 
what assistance it may be able to offer her. I encourage the parties to work together to 
establish what options might be available to help Ms M with her mortgage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc has done enough to put things right, so I make 
no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman