DRN-3526126
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint, made through his representative, is about shares he bought through
Templeton Securities Limited, at the time an appointed representative of Alexander David
Securities Limited. Mr S says the shares werent suitable for him and Templeton Securities 
Limited didnt act in his best interests.
What happened
Ive considered Mr Ss complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 12 May 2022. Ive
set out again what I said about the background to Mr Ss complaint and my provisional
findings explaining why I thought the complaint should be upheld.
   
Mr S says he was advised by an unregulated introducer to open a self invested
personal pension (SIPP) and transfer existing pensions into it. I understand the same
unauthorised [individual] also advised Mr S to open a trading account with Templeton
Securities.
Mr S completed Templeton Securities Private Client Portfolio Agreement and
Application Booklet on 12 May 2014. Under the heading, What to expect as a client of
Templeton Securities, it said:
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as
an independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private
client investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit
individual client needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we
will need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future
which will enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is
therefore imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may
mean that we are unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
And, under the heading, Important information regarding your application, it said that
Templeton Securities was required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(FSMA) to provide suitable investment advice and services, based on the information Mr
S provided about his circumstances.
Mr S filled out his personal details. In the section headed, Important Financial
information, the form said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and liabilities, 
and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when assessing the 
suitability of our investment management service we provide.
Mr S was approaching his 50th birthday. He was working as a store manager, earning
£21,600, and he intended to retire at 60. He held pensions with a value of £110,000.
Under Preferred level of portfolio risk both medium and medium/high were ticked. Mr Ss 
objective was recorded as capital growth. He intended to invest for over seven years and 
had previous experience of investing in funds on advice.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things
:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of
investments for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we have 
received and which I agree to.
Ive referred below to what some of those terms and conditions said.
On 13 May 2014 Mr S signed a letter authorising unnamed pension providers to release
information to an unregulated company, based overseas.
Templeton Securities wrote to Mr S on 29 May 2014, welcoming him as a client and
confirming hed been classified as a retail client. The letter also said:
We note your interest in high risk products. Investments in smaller companies, in particular 
Penny Shares and investments that are not readily realisable e.g. small unquoted 
companies, involve a high risk that all or part of your investment may be lost. You may also 
have difficulty in selling these shares at a reasonable price and in some circumstances you 
may not be able to sell at any price. There can be a big difference between the buying and 
the selling price and if they have to be sold immediately, you may get back much less than 
you paid for them.
A total of £110,000 was transferred into the new account on 2 June 2014.
On 4 June 2014, Mr S emailed Templeton Securities. After giving his name and
reference details the email said:
I wish to invest £46,435.50 in Eligere investments plc (ELI) gxg listed securities with a 55 
pence limit for T3 settlement.
I wish to invest £46,435.50 in Emmit plc (EMT) aim listed securities with a £1.95 limit for T1 
settlement.
I wish to invest £8,194.50 in HSBC (HSBC) ftfc listed at best for T3 settlement.
I wish to invest £8,194.50 in Lloyds (LLOY) ftfc listed at best for T3 settlement. 
Please advise me via email when this has been transacted.
These investments were made on 4 June 2014.
On 11 September 2014 Templeton Securities wrote to Mr S. The letter, which was headed 
Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit, said:
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type of
stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel it's appropriate to
invest in such high-risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these 'Execution Only* but wish to advise that 
in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not benefit 
from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA [Financial Conduct Authority] Conduct 
of Business Rules.
The FCA issued a statement about the promotion of shares in Emmit on 31 October 2014. It 
said it had been made aware that individuals were being encouraged to transfer money from their work pension schemes into SIPPs and use that money to buy shares in Emmit. It said 
some investors were being offered cash back on their investments in Emmit of up to 30% 
of the transfer value, paid by a third party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors
appeared to have invested 100% of their pension assets into Emmit shares and could suffer 
significant financial loss if theyd done that without fully understanding what they were doing.
Templeton Securities wrote to Mr S again on 31 October 2014, informing him of the
suspension of Emmit from AIM. The FCAs statement was enclosed. I understand that the
shares were delisted in May 2015. And the exchange on which the Eligere shares had been 
listed, GXG, closed in August 2015 which meant that those shares couldnt be traded.
Templeton Securities wrote to Mr S again on 30 October 2015, informing him of certain
matters relating to Emmit, including its proposed change of name to International Water
Services plc.
By September 2016, the value of the Eligere and International Water Services investments
had been marked down nil.
Templeton Securities sent various documents to Mr Ss representative in response to a
subject access request. Mr Ss representative complained to Alexander David on behalf
of Mr S and others. Amongst other things, the representative said:
Templeton Securities owed the clients various duties, including under the regulators
Principles and the COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) rules.
Alexander David had failed to adequately monitor its appointed representative.
The investments hadnt been allowable under the SIPP providers terms and
 conditions.
Templeton Securities had failed to undertake sufficient due diligence or investigation
into the emailed investment instructions. It had also failed to undertake sufficient due
diligence on the investments.
Templeton Securities responded to the complaint on 10 March 2020. It made the following 
points, among others:
Templeton Securities had no contact with Mr Ss adviser. It hadnt advised him
itself; the transactions had been execution only. It couldnt be accountable for
his actions taken in reliance on an unregulated introducer.
It questioned whether Mr S had received any incentive payment.
Both the Emmit and Eligere investments had been permitted by the SIPP operator
at the time.
Under the terms and conditions, Templeton Securities had been entitled, but not
obliged, to make recommendations. The terms and conditions also allowed
Templeton Securities to execute orders made on an execution only basis. The
fact that Mr S elected to have an advisory relationship didnt preclude the
provision of non-advised services.
Clause 6.4 allowed Templeton Securities not to advise clients where it reasonably
believed that advice was not expected, and that the transaction was execution only. 
It was also not required to ensure suitability or appropriateness in relation to non 
complex financial instruments such as shares.
Under the terms and conditions, it had been appropriate for Templeton Securities
to rely Mr Ss instruction, and it couldnt be liable for his loss.
The investments had been retained after purchase, indicating that neither Mr S 
nor the nominee had taken any steps in mitigation of his position.Mr Ss representative referred the complaint to this service on 7 September 2020. It
subsequently confirmed that Mr S had received an incentive payment of £6,500 from the 
introducer.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. His findings were:
The SIPP provider had confirmed that the shares were permitted investments.
In giving the instruction Mr S hadnt asked for advice. Templeton Securities terms
and conditions allowed it to accept the instruction on an execution only basis.
The instruction used some technical terms that an inexperienced investor was
unlikely to use but, bearing in mind the nature of the relationship, it wasnt cause for
suspicion had it been an isolated case.
But a number of very similar complaints had been referred to us. A number of
accounts were opened in a relatively short period and essentially identical
instructions given in relation to the same shares. At least six instructions were given
on the same day as Mr S and others had been given previously. The wording was
distinctive and it seems it had been given to the consumers by the introducers.
Templeton Securities had discretion under the terms and conditions whether to
accept instructions. It was also subject to FCA rules, including the Principles for
Businesses (PRIN). These required Templeton Securities, among other things, to
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence; take reasonable care to
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk
management systems; and pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly. These broad principles reflect the FCAs operational objective to protect
consumers.
Mr S and, it seems, all the other consumers, had applied for advisory accounts then
given similarly worded execution only instructions to buy the same small company
shares. The consumers were generally inexperienced and of relatively limited means.
The investigator thought it wouldve been reasonably clear there was a third party
involved. There was no evidence of any other connection and no other reasonable
explanation was apparent.
Furthermore, the investigator though thered have been reasonable cause to suspect
the third party was unauthorised: an authorised firm would probably have arranged
transactions itself and wouldve been unlikely to recommend that a client invest most
of their pension in two high risk, small company shares.
Templeton Securities should have investigated the matter further. Had it done so,
it would have established that an unauthorised firm had recommended investments
in shares, a regulated activity in breach of the general prohibition in section 19 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). It could only have judged that the
recommendations were highly likely to be unsuitable.
Templeton Securities had said it was unaware of the unauthorised firms activities.
There is a letter of authority for an unregulated firm on the file for this complaint and
similar documents are on other files, some of which were sent to us by Templeton
Securities. So it ought reasonably to have known an unauthorised introducer was
involved. But, even if it hadnt seen these documents, it was reasonably clear from
the wider circumstances that a third party was involved and that this third party was
likely to be unauthorised.
Templeton Securities shouldve investigated the matter then exercised its discretion
to decline the instruction and, in accordance with its responsibility to treat Mr S fairly
and act in his interests, explained why it had done so.
Its possible that Mr S would still have made the investment. He was clearly under the
influence of the introducer who were probably persuasive salesmen. They might
have persuaded him to switch to another provider, assuming they could find one that
was willing to accept the business. Mr S had also received an incentive of £6,500,although it isnt entirely clear what this was for. Templeton Securities also sent him a
letter in advance, referring to high risk products, and it wrote to him after the
investments were made, effectively questioning whether the Emmit shares were
appropriate. All of these factors would support the conclusion that he would have
made the investments anyway.
On the other hand, Mr S wasnt an experienced investor and he didnt have much
capacity for loss. He was ten years from retirement. The investigator thought that, on
balance, had Mr S been given appropriate warnings that an unauthorised firm had
illegally recommended high risk, potentially illiquid and clearly unsuitable investments
to him, hed have chosen not to proceed. At the very least, it was reasonable to
assume hed have sought advice from an authorised firm and any competent adviser
would have recommended against proceeding in strong terms.
Templeton Securities had argued that Mr S had failed to mitigate his position by
selling the shares while he had the chance. The investigator didnt think that was fair.
Mr S was inexperienced and had relied on a third party in making the investments, so
he wasnt used to making investment decisions of this sort, and its unlikely he was
monitoring the situation that closely.
An ombudsman has commented, in a recent decision in a very similar case, on
whether Alexander David might be liable on the basis of sections 27 and 28 of
FSMA, particularly in the light of the recent Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (formerly Carey Pensions UK LLP) [2021] EWCA
Civ 474.
As regards section 27, Mr S and his representative had said that the introducers
gave advice and, in any case, the scope of the arranging activities is very broad. It
was likely that the introducers advised Mr S on the merits of switching and making
the investments and that the introducers arranged or made arrangements with a view
to transactions in the investments.
As regards section 28, Templeton Securities ought to have recognised, if it didnt
already know, that a third party was behind the multiple, simultaneous and virtually
identical instructions received from otherwise apparently unconnected clients and
recognised that the third party was likely to be unauthorised. Appropriate enquiries
wouldve established that and the exact nature of the introducers activities.
Templeton Securities ought to have known that it would be arranging the investments
in consequence of the introducers carrying on regulated activities in contravention of
the general prohibition. In Adams v Options, the judge stated, Amongst the factors
that it may be proper to take into account is whether the provider should reasonably
have known that the general prohibition was being contravened. If Templeton
Securities wouldve been aware of the contravention but for its own failings, then it
seemed a court wouldnt allow Templeton Securities relief under section 28 and Mr S
could recover his money under section 27. That said the investigator didnt think the
outcome turned on the application of section 27 but on the other arguments hed put
forward.
The investigator set out how Mr S should be compensated fairly. As hed had the use
of the £6,500 payment hed received, that should be deducted from the
compensation.
Mr Ss representative said he had nothing further to add. We received further comments
on behalf of Alexander David/TS Capital (formerly Templeton Securities). The investigator
considered those but he wasnt persuaded to change his view. Ive summarised the points
raised and what the investigator said in response.
The investigator acknowledged that two investigators had previously found inAlexander Davids favour in 2018 and 2019. But he pointed out that, since then, other 
investigators had upheld similar complaints. And his findings here mirrored a recent 
ombudsman decision.
The Principles didnt replace COBS and PRIN was primarily guidance. COBS 10 
(the requirement to assess suitability) didnt apply. The investigator said, even if
COBS 10 didnt apply, that didnt mean Templeton Securities had no responsibilities 
to its client at all. PRIN 2.1.1R was a rule not guidance and it applied to Templeton 
Securities.
Alexander David had said the facts of the Adams v Options case were
distinguishable. The investigators understanding was that what mattered for the
purposes of sections 27 and 28 of FSMA was whether Templeton Securities had
carried on the regulated activity of arranging the investment in consequence of an
unauthorised third party carrying on a regulated activity and whether Templeton
Securities was or ought reasonably to have been aware of that. It had received a
number of essentially identically worded instructions on the same day and on other
days around the same time. That ought to have raised suspicions and Templeton
Securities ought to have been was aware of the involvement of the unauthorised
third party, whether or not it was.
The investigator accepted the instruction was execution. But he didnt agree that
Templeton Securities couldnt have made an error if COBS 10 didnt apply. It didnt 
follow that a firm owed no duty of care to its clients and PRIN applied anyway.
The investigator accepted that the incentive payment wouldve influenced Mr S. 
That and other points added weight to the argument that hed have invested
anyway. We have to reach a finding on what Mr S wouldve done on the balance
of probabilities. Either conclusion, that he wouldnt have proceeded or that he
wouldve gone ahead anyway, inevitably involves assumption.
The circumstances in this particular case werent typical. Templeton Securities 
had received a number of essentially identically worded instructions from 
unconnected clients on the same day which wasnt something that would normally 
happen. The investigators findings were largely based on that. So arguments about 
wider implications for all firms didnt apply.
Templeton Securities September 2014 letter had been taken into account and
the ombudsman would consider it too. The investigator said it might be helpful if
details as to whether any of the consumers had got in contact or sold their
shares after those letters had been sent.
The term T1 settlement wasnt used universally by inexperienced investors. It was
the fact that multiple unconnected clients provided essentially identically worded
instructions to invest in the same shares on the same day that shouldve raised
alarm bells, rather than the individual instruction itself. Mr S wouldnt have questioned 
the wording  he was an inexperienced investor relying on a third party and was 
essentially doing as he was told. An inexperienced investor wouldnt know what T1 
settlement meant.
The investigator hadnt said it was unsuitable for Templeton Securities to place
nearly all of Mr Ss pension savings in high risk funds. His point was that Templeton 
Securities shouldve investigated why it had received multiple essentially identically 
worded instructions on the same day from unconnected clients. Had it done so, it 
wouldve declined the instruction and explained why. That wouldve involved giving 
appropriate warnings that an unauthorised firm had illegally recommended high risk, 
potentially illiquid and clearly unsuitable investments.
One of the regulators strategic objectives is to protect consumers. Firms have
a responsibility to protect consumers and act in clients best interests. It wasnt the 
case that, where instructions are received on an execution only basis, these 
responsibilities dont apply.
There were arguments that Mr S wouldve done it anyway, given the fairly large incentive, and that he failed to mitigate his position. But, on balance, the 
investigators view on those points remained the same.
We shared Alexander Davids comments and the investigators reply with Mr Ss
representative. Mr S didnt want to add anything.
A number of issues have been raised on behalf of Alexander David on some of the
other complaints weve dealt with. Ive summarised them here:
Previous Financial Ombudsman Service rulings hadnt been taken into account.
The FCA had conducted a thorough investigation into TS Capital/Templeton
Securities in regard to Eligere and Emmit, including a full review of all telephone
calls and emails. The FCA dropped its investigation as it decided there was no case 
to answer. No wrongdoing was found.
The instruction for the transaction was accepted and undertaken on an execution 
only basis. Advisory services hadnt been provided as per clause 3.2 of the terms 
and conditions.
The trade instructions came from a regulated pension provider  the SIPP provider
 who was technically the account holder. The account was a trust account opened
by a regulated SIPP provider. Mr S was the beneficiary with powers to undertake
transactions. At the time of his instruction, it wasnt unreasonable for his instruction
to be accepted and to conclude that it was an ordinary transaction(s) for investments 
listed on recognised exchanges.
The terminology in the instruction wasnt necessarily technical for someone who
had previously made any direct stock market investment. The nature of the
instruction wasnt in itself, or in a series, necessarily unusual, given the account
was opened with it by a regulated firm and clients could and did obtain and undertake 
investment research through a variety of mediums. Such as web and internet forums 
and tip services. At the point of the transaction Templeton Securities was unaware of 
any issues with the investments.
It had become aware of general market concerns in September 2014. It wouldve
been appropriate and reasonable to alert investors of suitability concerns which is 
exactly what the letter sent in September 2014 did. This was the date any fair
and reasonable award should be calculated to as Mr S had a duty to mitigate any
loss. He couldve sold the shares before they were suspended, and not suffered the 
total loss he did.
Templeton Securities wasnt aware of the payment which was clearly a pension
liberation attempt. The key trigger for the scam was a promise of a cashback. This
was the motivation for Mr S to transfer and subsequently send specific instructions to 
buy the shares in question. The ability to liberate some of his pension savings prior to 
the date he was allowed to access his pension was the most likely reason for the 
investments.
It wasnt accepted that relief shouldnt be provided under section 28 (3). The
introduction(s) all came directly from a regulated pension provider and it was
technically the account holder and Mr S a beneficiary. It wasnt unreasonable to
undertake and accept the specific execution only instructions from Mr S or the other 
clients at that time. Or for Templeton Securities to be unaware that an unregulated 
entity was contravening the general prohibition at the point the instruction was 
received and the investment was made.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.We can only consider complaints against authorised firms. We cant consider a complaint
about the unauthorised introducer. Im aware that Mr S has also made a complaint against
the SIPP operator, which is a regulated entity. We havent issued any view or a provisional
or final decision in respect of that complaint. All Im considering here is Mr Ss complaint
about Templeton Securities.
We can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to an act or
omission by a regulated firm in the carrying on of one or more listed activities, including
regulated activities (see Dispute Resolution (DISP) 2.3.1R).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and
include advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments (article
25 RAO). So I can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to provide
advice. Or about arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only sale.
Im required, under DISP 3.6.4R, in considering whats fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case, to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of all the available
evidence and the wider circumstances. I agree with the views expressed by the investigator
and with the reasons he gave, although Ive set out my findings in more detail.
The documentation and literature that was provided at the time the Private Client
Portfolio account was opened with Templeton Securities clearly described it as providing an
advisory service. But the terms and conditions said that Templeton Securities was able to
accept execution only instructions in some circumstances. Ive considered first whether
Templeton Securities acted correctly by accepting Mr Ss email of 4 June 2014 as an
execution only instruction to purchase shares in Emmit plc and Eligere Investments plc.
Could Templeton Securities accept an execution only instruction from Mr S?
Ive referred below to what I see as the central provisions of the terms and conditions of the
agreement with Templeton Securities.
Clause 3 said:
3. The services we will provide
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in
a non-complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product
investment recommendations [my emphasis]. Nothing in our literature or in these Terms &
Conditions should be treated as a solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or maintain any
product. We will action all instructions on an execution-only basis. This means that we are
only able to act on the instructions that you provide. We cannot give you advice about what
instructions you should give us. You are responsible for the investment decisions that you
make when you engage our services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept
responsibility on a continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio.Mr S hadnt been designated as an execution only client. And hed supplied information
about his investment objectives, financial circumstances and the degree of risk he was
prepared to accept. But, as Ive highlighted above, clause 3.1 provided for the situation
where, even though information had been given, it might be reasonable for Templeton
Securities to believe that Mr S wasnt expecting it to advise about the merits of a particular
transaction in non complex financial instrument. In that scenario Templeton Securities
wouldnt make any recommendations. Non complex wasnt defined. But I think, taking into
account what COBS 10.4.1R said (as Ive set out below), investments in Emmit and Eligere
shares were non complex financial instruments.
Clause 3.1 was echoed in clause 6, headed, Appropriateness.
6.1 In providing services other than investment advice management, we may be subject to
an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the
contemplated product or service for you by determining whether you have the necessary
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the specific
type of product or service offered or demanded. In such circumstances, where on the basis
of information received we consider that the contemplated product or service is not
appropriate for you, we will provide you with a warning to that effect.
Applicable Regulation was defined as meaning FCA rules or any other rules of a relevant
regulatory authority or any other rules of a relevant Market and all other applicable laws,
rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
I think thats a reference to COBS 10. Ive considered that and in particular COBS 10.4
which is headed Assessing appropriateness: when it need not be done. COBS 10.4.1R (1)
said (at the time):
A firm is not required to ask its client to provide information or assess appropriateness if:
(a) the service only consists of execution and/or the reception and transmission
of client orders, with or without ancillary services, it relates to particular financial
instruments and is provided at the initiative of the client;
(b) the client has been clearly informed (whether the warning is given in a standardised
format or not) that in the provision of this service the firm is not required to assess the
suitability of the instrument or service provided or offered and that therefore he does not
benefit from the protection of the rules on assessing suitability; and
(c) the firm complies with its obligations in relation to conflicts of interest.
The particular financial instruments, referred to in subsection (a), are set out in COBS
10.4.1R (2) and include shares admitted to trading on a regulated market (for example, AIM).
I think (a) is satisfied. I havent seen anything to suggest there was any conflict of interest as
mentioned in (c). But I dont think (b) was met. Templeton Securities has pointed to its terms
and conditions (see, for example, clause 6.4 mentioned below). But, while a warning in
standardised form was permitted, I think (b) requires a warning to be given at the time of the
particular service. It says, in the provision of this [my emphasis] service. That means a
specific warning (albeit that in might be in a standardised format) has to be given at the time.
And thats consistent with Templeton Securities own terms and conditions  see clause 6.4
which says:
Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular transaction
if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction, you are not
expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where the transaction
relates to noncomplex financial instruments such as shares, bonds and UCITS, we will
inform you at the time [my emphasis] that we will execute your order on that basis and wewill not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate for you. Please
note therefore, that you will not benefit from the protection of the relevant FCA Rules
requiring us to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the transaction for you.
I havent seen that Templeton Securities gave Mr S the requisite warning at the time.
That said, I dont think much turns on that. I dont think a failure to give a warning at the time
(as required by COBS 10.4.1R and Templetons own terms and conditions) means that
Templeton Securities couldnt accept an execution only instruction from Mr S. I think the
more important question is whether, as clause 6.4 (and clause 3.1) required, Templeton
Securities reasonably believed that Mr S wasnt expecting advice and was dealing on an
execution only basis.
I note here what our investigator said about the email of 4 June 2014 and its wording. I
agree the wording was, in some respects, technical. I dont think anyone without some
financial services experience, including in securities transactions, would be familiar with or
understood how a request to purchase shares with a 55 pence limit for T3 settlement or a
£1.95 limit for T1 settlement would operate. Nor do I think a novice equities investor such
as Mr S  I note that on his application form Mr S ticked that he was a novice (less than one
years experience) in equities investment (and the same for fixed interest and alternative
assets - wouldve necessarily understood what an AIM or GXG listed security was and how
that differed from a stock that was listed on, for example, the London Stock Exchange. Mr S
also indicated he was an intermediate investor in funds and that he had some advisory
broking investment experience, although Im not sure how credible the latter was.
But, in any event, I dont think the wording of the email on its own meant that Templeton
Securities shouldve queried Mr Ss instruction. If anything, it might reinforce Templeton
Securities belief that he wasnt expecting advice. It might appear hed taken advice
from another party. On the face of it, it appeared to be a valid instruction. It was clear and
specific. It looked like Mr S had made a settled decision to invest in Emmit and Eligere. I
dont think theres anything in his email which suggests he was expecting Templeton
Securities to give him any advice about the transactions. I think the indication is that hed
made a decision to invest and he expected Templeton Securities to simply comply with his
instruction and go ahead and make the purchases.
And clause 4.9, about Specific client instruction, said:
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will
execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions. Where your instructions
relate to only part of the order, we will continue to apply our order execution policy to those
aspects of the order not covered by your specific instructions.
4.9.2 You should be aware that providing specific instructions to us in relation to the
execution of a particular order may prevent us from taking the steps set out in our order
execution policy to obtain the best possible result in respect of the elements covered by
those instructions. We reserve the right to refuse specific instructions from you regarding the
execution of your order, where in our opinion such instructions are not practicable or may be
contrary to your best interests.
I dont overlook what the investigator said about the other similar emails and which Ive
referred to below. But, just looking at Mr Ss email for the time being and in more or less
isolation, I dont think Templeton Securities acted incorrectly in treating it as an execution
only instruction.
That meant, and in accordance with clause 3.1 (see the penultimate sentence Ive quotedfrom that provision above), Templeton Securities didnt accept responsibility for the
investment decisions which Mr S had made when hed engaged Templeton Securities as
an execution only customer.
But I dont think thats the end of the matter. Ive gone on to consider if Templeton Securities
shouldve accepted Mr Ss instruction.
Should Templeton Securities have accepted Mr Ss execution only instruction?
As Ive gone on to explain, I think there were wider factors which shouldve led Templeton
Securities to question or look more closely at Mr Ss instruction and whether it should comply
with it.
Id reiterate (as set out above) that Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances of a case. Templeton Securities received a significant number of requests
to open this type of advisory account with it, all within a relatively short period. And, very
shortly after the accounts were opened, emailed instructions with almost identical wording
were sent to Templeton Securities instructing investment in the one or two particular and
niche shares.
By the time Templeton Securities received Mr Ss instruction, it had already received a
significant number of very similar instructions. I think it had received six or so on 21 May
2014 and a further three the following day. And Mr Ss email was one of several similar if not
identical emails received on 4 June 2014. All were instructions to invest in Emmit and/or
Eligere shares, with near identical wording and sent to the same person at Templeton
Securities (who I understand held the CF30 function with Alexander David at that time). And
in all cases it was very shortly after the accounts with Templeton Securities had been
opened.
To date weve received over 20 complaints against Templeton Securities about very similar
transactions that all happened at around the same time. From what Ive seen, in all cases
emails with the same or very similar investment instructions were sent to the same person at
Templeton Securities. And these are only the cases where investors have complained and
the matter has been referred to us. It may be that there are other instances of which Im not
aware and where no complaint has been made and referred to us.
Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that duty
wasnt unqualified. First, Templeton Securities had a broad contractual discretion whether to
accept any order or instruction from Mr S. Clause 3.7 said:
We may, at our discretion, decline to accept any order or instruction from you or instigate
certain conditions prior to proceeding with your order.
Secondly, Templeton Securities, as a regulated firm and in accordance with its own terms
and conditions, had an obligation to comply with the FCAs rules. Clause 2.2 said:
These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable Regulations. The
term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by the
FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable
Regulations, the latter will prevail;
(ii) nothing in these Terms and Conditions shall exclude or restrict any obligation
which we have to you under any Applicable Regulations;
(iii) we may take or omit to take any action we consider necessary to ensure
compliance with any Applicable Regulations; and
(iv) such actions that we take or omit to take for the purposes of compliance with
any Applicable Regulations shall not render us or any of our directors, officers,
employees or agents liable to you.
The duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the terms and conditions as an
overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those terms. And that
Templeton Securities could take, or omit to take, any action it considered necessary (such
as not complying with a clients instruction) to ensure compliance with its regulatory
obligations.
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection which it seeks to achieve through the
application of its Rules, including its Principles for Business (PRIN). Templeton Securities
was providing regulated financial services and was bound by these Principles and Rules (for
example COBS) and as set out in the terms and conditions.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the Principles. Ive borne in mind
what the courts have said (see, for example, Ouseley Js comments in British Bankers
Association v The Financial Services & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin)) about how the
Principles operate in deciding whether Templeton Securities complied with them, taking into
account what Ive said above about the wider circumstances and in the context of the
instruction Mr S gave on 4 June 2014. I think Principles 2, 3 and 6 are particularly relevant
here. They say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.
Here Templeton Securities had received a significant number of emails previously and
several emails on the same day as Mr Ss; all the emails were sent to the same person;
there was a pattern of remarkably similarly worded execution only instructions from different
clients with SIPP accounts. All wanted Templeton Securities to process purchases in the
same niche shares, traded on non mainstream markets.
I think in these circumstances a stockbroker ought reasonably to have been alerted to the
possibility that something unusual might be going on. In my view, the circumstances ought to
have been a trigger for Templeton Securities to intervene in the normal processing of the
transactions and take a closer look behind them. If it had done so, it would have identified
that the instructions were coming from ordinary retail customers who:
had all recently opened advisory accounts and yet within a short period of time
from opening were all sending execution only instructions to make their first
investment;
were investing the majority of the money in their SIPP in these same nicheshares presenting significant risks which werent the type of investments that
would normally be expected to form the significant part of anyones pension
provision;
had sent almost identically worded instructions to invest in the same niche
share(s), suggesting these retail consumers may be being systematically advised
by someone to buy these shares and on how to go about it.
And that was in the context that:
Only an FCA authorised firm was lawfully able to give investment advice. And a
regulated firm giving investment advice would usually arrange the transactions
themselves so as to charge dealing commission. It raised the possibility of serious
malpractice if an unauthorised person was giving investment advice in breach of
section 19 of FSMA.
The number of grouped instructions to purchase niche shares, specifying particular
days for settlement at particular prices, was highly unusual for seemingly
unconnected retail customers. Including settlement details in their instructions was
not only unusual but served no obvious purpose from a pension investors point of
view.
The possibility that the advice to buy the shares was coming from an unauthorized
person was increased by the riskiness of concentrating pension funds in the shares
of one or two small, obscure companies: a FCA authorised firm would have
regulatory obligations not to give unsuitable investment advice, and would be unlikely
to find such shares a suitable pension investment for many (if any) of their clients, let
alone a string of clients, and all at around the same time.
In my view, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Mr Ss instruction ought
reasonably to have caused Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the transaction.
Had it done so and looked at the information it already had available through the account
opening documentation, it wouldve seen that, at the time Mr Ss account with Templeton
Securities was opened, he was single, coming up to his 50th birthday and employed, earning
£21,600 pa. He owned his own property worth £165,000 subject to a mortgage of £65,000.
Aside from some cash (£1,000) he had no savings or other assets, aside from his pension
plans which were worth £110,000. So Mr Ss income was relatively modest and his house
(which was subject to a mortgage) and his pension plans were his only assets. Hed
indicated a medium or medium/high attitude to risk. But I dont think Mr S had much capacity
for loss yet he apparently wanted to invest his the bulk of his only pension provision in two
niche shares which werent traded on mainstream markets and when he had limited
experience of investing in equities.
I understand that Templeton Securities has said that the unregulated firm wasnt known to it.
And it didnt have any discussions or agreement with it or any arrangement of any kind for
the introduction of business or otherwise. I havent looked at the complaint on the basis that 
Templeton Securities had any link with whoever advised Mr S to transfer his pension plans
to a SIPP and then invest in Emmit and Eligere. Ive considered the complaint from the
perspective of what Templeton Securities shouldve done when it received Mr Ss instruction
to invest in Emmit and Eligere.
I think, if Templeton Securities had looked into things further, it wouldve discovered,
relatively easily, that in Mr Ss (and others) case, an unregulated firm, was the common
denominator and that the many and similarly worded instructions had come from that firm.
Giving investment advice and arranging deals in investments are regulated activities.Section 19 of FSMA)  the general prohibition  says that no person may carry on a
regulated activity in the UK, or purport to do so unless they are an authorised person. But I
dont see that Mr S (or other ordinary retail clients) wouldve been aware of the general
prohibition or that the business he was dealing with wasnt an authorised firm and the
significance of that. I dont doubt that Mr S (and others) would simply have trusted the
unregulated firm and assumed that its adviser was acting lawfully and in his best interests.
But knowing that an unregulated firm was involved ought to have rung alarm bells with
Templeton Securities  it seemed an unauthorised person was advising Mr S (and others) to
invest in niche, high risk shares.
I think Templeton Securities wouldve been able to identify from a fairly cursory look at the
information it held about Mr Ss circumstances, that the investment advice hed received
 to invest a very substantial sum (£92,871), representing the bulk of his only pension fund
in two niche, high risk shares  was wholly unsuitable for him. Ant that he wasnt, for his own
particular reasons, instructing an unsuitable order, given that so many other, relatively new
(and advisory) and inexperienced clients were giving virtually identical instructions in similar
circumstances. I think Templeton Securities ought to have realised that it was likely that a
third party was behind all the highly similar and somewhat unusual instructions. At that point
I think Templeton Securities shouldve exercised its discretion to decline to accept the
instruction.
Against that background, I dont think Templeton Securities met its obligations under
Principles 2, 3 and 6. If it had conducted its business with skill care and diligence and taken
reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with
adequate risk management systems, it shouldve identified the high number of execution
only requests from relatively new advisory clients. And that there were striking and unusual
similarities in those requests. I think that shouldve led Templeton Securities to take a closer
look at the instructions.
If it had done so, Templeton Securities wouldve discovered that Mr S (and others) were
being advised by an unregulated adviser who was assisting them in making high risk and
unsuitable investments. Given the clear risk of consumer detriment, Templeton Securities,
and acting in Mr Ss best interests, shouldve exercised its discretion and declined to
accept his instruction.
Templeton Securities did write to Mr S about his investment in Emmit shares and the fact
that it was high risk in September 2014. Templeton Securities has said, that at the time of
the share purchases, there was no indication that a third party was involved. And that only
came to light when the FCA issued its warning. But that wasnt until October 2014 so
something else must have prompted Templeton Securities to write. Its told us that it wrote to
customers following a review carried out by its compliance officer because of the number of
transactions in Emmit and the rumours that were circulating around the market about people
investing in it.
If Templeton Securities did write to some customers and for the reasons given, I think that 
supports what Ive said  that Templeton Securities shouldve realised from the volume of
similar, if not identical, business that it was receiving that something unusual and untoward
might be going on and which required further investigation.
Principle 3 requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. I think Templeton
Securities shouldve had systems and controls in place which, in the circumstances Ive set
out above, wouldve meant a pattern was spotted at a very early stage.
Templeton Securities shouldve exercised its discretion under clause 3.7 to decline to carryout Mr Ss instruction to purchase the Emmit and Eligere shares. It shouldve realised that
there was a real risk of consumer detriment. It was in a position to prevent the purchase of
the shares. Instead it facilitated Mr Ss investments. I think Templeton Securities failed in
its regulatory obligations by acting on Mr Ss instruction.
What would Mr S have done if Templeton Securities had declined to carry out his
instruction?
I think a refusal and an explanation from Templeton Securities as to why it wasnt prepared
to carry out Mr Ss instruction wouldve carried weight. And given him pause for thought
about whether investing in Emmit and Eligere Investments was really a good idea.
Depending on how Templeton Securities might have put things to Mr S and what may have
been said about the dangers of accepting advice from an unauthorised person and the
high risk nature of the investments, Mr S may have decided immediately that he didnt
want anything further to do with the unregulated firm.
I recognise he may have been dealing with the unregulated adviser for some time and
presumably trusted them. And as the investigator noted, they were probably persuasive. But,
in my view, an indication from Templeton Securities, a regulated firm, that what Mr S was
being told to do by someone who wasnt authorised to give financial advice anyway, is likely
to have caused Mr S to think again about the wisdom of investing as had been suggested.
Mr S was investing very substantial sums in the two shares - £46,435.50 in each Emmit and
Eligere. I think hes likely to have been very concerned if hed realised the true nature of the
investments and the degree of risk involved for the bulk of his pension savings. I think, in
that scenario, Mr S wouldve asked Templeton Securities for advice as to how to invest
instead and in line with his attitude to risk and circumstances.
If Mr S had still wanted to proceed as planned then, as hed already transferred funds to
Templeton Securities and if it had declined to purchase the shares, hed have needed to
have found another broker, asked the SIPP provider to get the money back from Templeton
Securities and then transfer it into the new account. I think that wouldve caused practical
difficulties for Mr S and is likely to have been enough to have made him think again.
Mr S did get an incentive payment in return for investing. It was £6,500 which is a substantial
amount. Theres no suggestion that it came from or via Templeton Securities or that it had
any knowledge of the payment. I recognise that wouldve been a motivating factor for Mr S to
proceed with the investments anyway, and even if Templeton Securities had intervened and
declined to process his instruction. Mr S may have wanted to have overcome any difficulties
in order to enable the share purchases to proceed so that hed still get the payment.
The payment was large. But that presumably reflected the fact that the amounts invested
were commensurately substantial. Mr S was investing almost £93,000 in Emmit and Eligere.
That represented the bulk  almost 85% - of his total pension savings. Although the prospect
of the payment was no doubt very attractive and Im sure Mr S wouldve welcomed the
money, I cant see that hed have been prepared to risk getting £93,000 just to secure a
payment of £6,500. I think, had Templeton Securities explained to him that it wasnt
prepared to process his instruction and why, that wouldve made Mr S aware that placing his
faith in an unregulated firm and risking most of his accumulated pension provision wasnt
prudent. I dont think hed have proceeded, even though that meant giving up the incentive
payment hed been promised.
Templeton Securities letter of 11 September 2014
Templeton Securities wrote to Mr S about his investment in Emmit shares and the fact that itwas high risk. Templeton Securities argues, as that letter was sent before the Emmit shares
were suspended, Mr S couldve tried to mitigate his position by selling the shares. I
understand that a sale then may have still represented a loss for Mr S but hed have avoided
the total loss of his investment which it seems he now faces.
Selling wouldve crystallised a loss. And I dont know if Mr S wouldve been able to sell
and, if so, at what price. A sudden and large volume of sell instructions might not have been
possible for the market to accommodate and is likely to have impacted adversely on the
share price  I bear in mind that Templeton Securities appears to have written to other
investors at about the same time.
More importantly, I dont think the letter was sufficient to prompt investors to act. It was
relatively brief. It did draw to Mr Ss attention the high risk nature of the investment. And
that Templeton Securities hadnt assessed suitability. But the letter didnt indicate there were
any particular problems with the investment. I dont think the wording was sufficiently strong
or specific such as ought to have prompted Mr S to act. Further the letter only referred to
Emmit  Eligere wasnt mentioned. I dont think the letter meant that Mr S shouldve acted
to mitigate his losses. Or that his losses should be limited to what theyd have been if hed
sold his Emmit shares on receipt of that letter.
Templeton Securities also wrote to Mr S on 31 October 2014. But that more or less
coincided with the suspension of Emmit from AIM. So by then it wasnt open to Mr S to try to
sell the shares.
Theres also the welcome letter sent to Mr S on 29 May 2014. It referred, in particular, to
Penny Shares and investments in small unquoted companies. Both Emmit and
Eligere were public limited companies and their shares were traded on recognised (albeit
non mainstream) markets. I dont think Mr S wouldve realised the warnings given in that
letter might apply to the investments he went on to make in Emmit and Eligere.
Sections 27 and 28 of FSMA
The investigator considered the application of sections 27 and 28 of FSMA and bearing in
mind the findings in the Court of Appeal case of Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions
LLP (formerly Carey Pensions UK LLP) [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I agree with the investigators
conclusions.
In summary, section 27 may apply where an authorised person (here Templeton Securities)
makes an agreement with another person (Mr S) in the course of carrying out a regulated
activity, which was a consequence of something said or done by a third party (here the
unregulated firm) acting in breach of the general prohibition (section 19 of FSMA). Section
27 provides that an agreement to which it applies is unenforceable against the other party
and sets out what the other party can recover. Section 28 provides the court with the
discretion to allow an agreement to which section 27 applies to be in any event enforced, if it
considers it is just and equitable to do so.
Given the facts of Mr Ss complaint and the surrounding circumstances as Ive set out
above, I think its most likely the unregulated firm was in breach of the general prohibition by
arranging deals in and advising on investments  articles 25 and 53 of the RAO. Or, as the
investigator suggested, making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments
(article 25(2) of the RAO). And I think the advice and the unregulated firms actions in
providing Mr S with a draft purchase instruction clearly played a crucial part in him buying
the shares. As Ive explained, I think its unlikely that so many ordinary retail clients would
suddenly all unilaterally decide to invest in these little known niche shares at around the
same time. I think a court would find that section 27 applies, and Mr S can (subject to section28), recover the monies he invested through his agreement with Templeton Securities when
it accepted his instructions to purchase the shares and the investment losses he sustained.
I also agree with the view reached by the investigator about section 28  that the court
wouldnt exercise its discretion to allow the agreement to be enforced. I think the overriding
question is set out in section 28 (3)  that is whether it would be just and equitable in the
circumstances of the case to allow enforcement of the agreement or retention of the price
paid. The significance of sections 28 (4) and (6) is to require the court to have regard to
whether the firm knew the third party was breaching the general prohibition.
But, as the Court of Appeal emphasised, meeting the requirements of section 28 (6) will
not necessarily mean that relief should be granted. So, whilst it has to be taken into account,
that factor isnt necessarily determinative. And the question of whether the firm should
reasonably have known the general prohibition was being breached is something that it may
be proper to take into account, but again it isnt a determinative test, just a potentially
relevant circumstance in some cases.
I think, in deciding section 28 (3) and what was just and equitable in Mr Ss case, the
court would, as it did in Adams v Options, look at all the circumstances in the round. For the
reasons Ive set out, I think Templeton Securities ignored several red flags that shouldve
reasonably alerted it that there was a strong possibility that its clients were being put in
harms way and that theyd been given the same unsuitable advice by the same unregulated
source. As Ive said, I dont think Templeton Securities acted reasonably in ignoring those
signals of potential wrongdoing. And I think, whilst the court would take into account
Templeton Securities may not have had actual knowledge of the breach, looking at the
circumstances in the round, had it acted reasonably  rather than ignore those clear
warnings  it wouldve discovered the breach on making reasonable enquiries around it.
Taking all this into account, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to allow
Templeton Securities relief under section 28. And so I think Mr S could recover his money
under section 27.
In reaching my conclusions Ive borne in mind that Templeton Securities wasnt the only
business involved. I accept that the unregulated firm played a central role  it was behind the
transfer to the SIPP, the setting up of Mr Ss account with Templeton Securities and his
instruction to invest in Emmit and Eligere. I have no power to investigate a complaint against
an unregulated firm. But Templeton Securities was a regulated firm and bound by the
regulators Rules and Principles. I think, for the reasons Ive explained, that Templeton
Securities failed to meet its regulatory obligations to Mr S.
.
Templeton Securities shouldve realised there was a clear possibility of detriment to Mr S
and acted to prevent that. In my view, Mr Ss losses flow from Templeton Securities
failings and so its fair and reasonable that Templeton Securities should redress Mr S for
those losses. If Templeton Securities considers that some other party is responsible, in
whole or in part for Mr Ss losses, I dont think Mr S, if his losses are met in full by
Templeton Securities, would decline to assign any rights he might have against any other
party to Templeton Securities/Alexander David.
Other issues
As Ive said above, Im aware that in connection with other complaints, further points have
been raised on behalf of Alexander David. So, for completeness Ive considered them here.
Im unsure as to what previous rulings made by this service are referred to. No final
decision issued by an ombudsman has been cited. The reference may be to views issued by
one of our adjudicators or investigators. As Ive said, the investigator was referred to twoviews issued some time ago. The adjudicators/investigators role is to try to resolve cases
on an informal basis on the facts as they understand them. If the complaint cant be settled
and is then referred to an ombudsman, it is considered afresh. Im not bound by what an
adjudicator or investigator may have proposed. Or indeed another ombudsmans decision,
although we do aim for consistency and so wed want to ensure the similar cases are
approached in the same way and that outcomes are consistent, even though the underlying
facts in a particular case might different conclusions are drawn. Im deciding Mr Ss
complaint on the basis of what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of
his complaint.
Weve previously and in connection with other complaints, asked Alexander David to provide
further details about the investigation carried out by the FCA. It sent a copy of a letter that
the FCA had sent to Alexander David dated 12 November 2014. The letter said the FCA had
appointed investigators to conduct an investigation into whether offences under section
89 of the Financial Services Act 2012; and or behaviour amounting to market abuse as
defined in section 118 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) may have
occurred. The letter went on to request various records relating to trades in Emmit plc,
along with other trading records from certain account holders and account documentation
from certain SIPP providers.
We contacted Alexander David to say that it appeared that the FCA was investigating a
different matter. And we explained that we were investigating the specific complaint made by
the consumer concerned and whether Templeton Securities had met its obligations in its
dealings with that consumer. We explained that wed consider any further evidence or
arguments about this issue if it could provide more details. But no further evidence or
arguments have been provided. So Im not satisfied that any investigation undertaken by the
FCA is relevant here.
I accept that Templeton Securities undertook the instruction for the transactions on an
execution only basis. However I dont think Templeton Securities wider obligations were
diluted because the regulated SIPP provider was technically the account owner. This wasnt
unusual and the instruction to invest came directly from Mr S.
I accept that the terminology in the instruction may not necessarily have been technical for
someone who had previously made direct stock market investment. And that investors can
obtain tips or undertake their own research from a variety of mediums. So a firm might
receive a number of orders for a particular investment at around the same time. But the
situation here was that a series of emails were all sent to the same specific person, with near
identical technical wording, giving very specific instructions to invest in particular niche
shares. I think this suggested there was likely to be a single source behind the instructions.
And that clients were being systematically advised by a third party to buy these shares and
on how to go about it.
It seems to be accepted that Mr S was the victim of some kind of scam, undertaken by
unregulated entities. For the reasons Ive explained, I think the series of emails shouldve
alerted Templeton Securities to the fact that something unusual might be going on, and
ought to have been a trigger for it to intervene in the normal processing of Mr Ss instruction
and take a closer look behind it. And, having done so, it wouldve identified the role of the
unregulated firm(s).
The letter sent by Templeton Securities to Mr S in September 2014 was headed
Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit. So it wasnt concerned with his Eligere
investment. For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think the content of the letter was such that
Mr S ought to have sold the shares (in Emmit or Eligere) or that he acted unreasonably by
not selling them. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to say that compensation should becalculated on the basis that Mr S shouldve sold his shares following receipt of the
September 2014 letter.
I accept the payment of £6,500 may not have been known to Templeton Securities when
it processed the instruction. I dont think this was a pension liberation attempt as such, but I
accept that sort of cash sum was attractive and wouldve been a motivating factor for Mr S.
But, if Templeton Securities had intervened in the processing, and said it wouldnt process
his instruction, Mr S wouldve had to reconsider. I think its likely, if Templeton Securities had
intervened and explained to Mr S that it wasnt prepared to process his instruction and why,
that Mr S wouldve lost trust in the unregulated firm(s) who were driving the transactions.
And, if hed still wanted to proceed, hed have needed to overcome practical difficulties. Hed
already opened his account with Templeton Securities and money had been transferred into
it. Hed have needed to get that money back and transfer it to a new dealing account with
another firm in order to buy the shares.
The account opening documentation showed Mr S was a novice investor in equities. It also
said his preferred level of risk was medium or medium/high. I dont think thats consistent
with investing almost all of his not insubstantial pension fund in high risk, niche, shares. I
think that represented a higher degree of risk than hed said he was prepared to accept.
There was a significant risk of loss of the entire amount invested, almost £93,000. Relative
to that and proportionately, the incentive payment of £6,500 was modest. Added to that were
the practical difficulties Ive referred to in buying the shares if Templeton Securities had
declined the instruction. Overall and on balance, I think its unlikely that Mr S wouldve
invested in Emmit and Eligere had it not been for Templeton Securities failings.
Responses to my provisional decision
TS Capital Limited (formerly Templeton Securities Limited) responded and reiterated the
points made in response to other complaints and as set out above. Amongst other things, TS
Capital pointed to the payment of £6,500 Mr S had received. TS Capital said the payment
was unknown to it, was clearly a pension liberation attempt and what had been said on
behalf of Mr S about it was inconsistent with the known facts and the FCAs October 2014
alert.
We asked Mr Ss representative for some further information about the payment Mr S had
received. The representative told us that Mr S had said that it was the unregulated introducer
whod first raised the possibility of an upfront payment with Mr S. It had been described to
him as a way to release money from his frozen pension by investing in shares. Mr Ss
representative also told us that Mr S estimated that about £1,000 of the payment was used
to clear a credit card debt with the remainder spent on general living expenses.
Mr Ss representative added that Mr Ss main motivating in transferring his pension and
investing as he did was to maximise the growth of his pension fund, based on advice hed
received from the unregulated introducer. Mr S considered the incentive payment was not
much compared to the value of his pension and its importance to him in retirement as his
only private pension provision. If hed been properly advised and/or warned that he
potentially stood to lose the entirety of his pension fund, he wouldnt have proceeded with
the transfer or made the subsequent investments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to depart from my provisional decision to uphold Mr Sscomplaint. Ive set out in full above the findings I made in my provisional decision and those
form part of this decision.
Ive considered what TS Capital has said in response to my provisional decision. But the
points made arent new and Ive thought about them earlier. Again Im not persuaded that a
different outcome should prevail.
About the incentive payment, Mr S has said it was raised by the unregulated introducer and I
accept that Templeton Securities may not have known about it when Mr Ss instruction was
processed. I dont think it was a pension liberation attempt as such but that sort of cash sum
was attractive and I accept it wouldve been a motivating factor for Mr S. The payment was
substantial. But that reflected the large amounts that Mr S was investing. Hes been clear
that he wouldnt have gone ahead if hed have known he was risking almost all of his entire
and only pension provision, aside from his state entitlement.
Although hes said he used some of the payment to discharge a credit card debt, it doesnt
seem he had any particularly pressing need for the money, the bulk of which appears to
have been spent on general living expenses. So Im inclined to accept that, properly advised
about the investments (Templeton Securities wasnt responsible for the transfer), Mr S
wouldnt have gone ahead just to secure the incentive payment. But, as hes had the use
and benefit of the money, it should be taken into account in the redress.
For the reasons Ive given Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ive repeated below what I said in
my provisional decision about how Mr S should be redressed.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close as possible to
the position hed probably now be in if Templeton Securities hadnt accepted his instruction
to purchase the Emmit and Eligere shares. I think Mr S wouldve invested differently. Its not
possible to say precisely what hed have done, but Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair
and reasonable, given Mr Ss circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr S fairly Alexander David Securities Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, it should be paid into Mr Ss pension plan, to increase its value by
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ss pension
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional
allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his
selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, thereduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if he wouldve been able to
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay Mr S £300 for distress and
inconvenience caused.
Details of the calculation should be must be provided to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Limited
considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it
should tell Mr S how has been taken off. And give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
Emmit and 
Eligere 
shares, 
less thestill exists FTSE UK
Private 
Investorsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot 
applicable
£6,500 Income Total
incentive Return Index
payment
split
equally,
so
£3,250
from
each
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities
Limited should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value
acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation
and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual value
should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David Securities
Limited may wish to require that Mr S provides an undertaking to pay Alexander David
Securities Limited any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the
receipt from the pension plan. Alexander David Securities Limited will need to meet any
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Mr Ss circumstances and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000 (where, as in this case, the act or omissions was before 1 April
2019 and the complaint was referred to us on or after 1 April 2020), plus any interest and/or
costs/ interest on costs that I think are appropriate. If I think that fair compensation may be
more than £160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Provisional decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation
should be calculated as set out above. My provisional decision is that Alexander David
Securities Limited should pay Mr S the amount produced by that calculation  up to a
maximum of £160,000.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Alexander David Securities Limited must redress Mr S as Ive set out
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman