DRN-1605258
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to cover the 
repayments on a mortgage. Mr and Mrs J say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Leeds 
Permanent Building Society, mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
In 1991, Mr and Mrs J were sold a PPI policy to protect their repayments on a mortgage 
theyd taken out the previous year. The cover cost £9 a month and provided a benefit of 
£600 a month if Mr J was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
This PPI sale took place a very long time ago, so its not that surprising that the paperwork 
completed then hasnt been retained by either Mr and Mrs J or BoS. Businesses arent 
required to keep such information for this length of time. In these circumstances, I need to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the very limited information 
now available. This includes what Mr and Mrs J say they remember about the sale and what 
I know about similar sales by BoS at around this time.
Mr and Mrs J say the they have no recollection of PPI being discussed with them at the time 
and didnt realise theyd taken out this cover. 
BoS has assumed that this sale took place in a branch and the PPI was recommended to 
Mr and Mrs J. And Ive taken this to be the case, because this means that BoS needed to 
ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs J.
Ive no particularly strong reason to think that BoS departed from its normal practice in such 
sales and didnt make it clear to Mr and Mrs J that the PPI was optional. I fully accept that 
Mr and Mrs J dont now remember the PPI being discussed with them, but memories of such 
conversations do tend to fade with time.
It would have been a serious failing on the part of BoS to have opened this PPI policy for 
Mr and Mrs J without having first obtained their agreement to take it. And I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence to suggest that this is what BoS is likely to have done here. Nor have I 
seen any wider problems with the BoS PPI sales process at around this time.So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that BoS didnt make Mr and Mrs J aware 
that the PPI was optional and obtain their agreement to take it. I think its more likely that it 
followed its standard sales process and that they chose to take out the policy at the time. But 
I can understand why they wouldnt recall doing so after so many years.
As Ive already said, BoS needed to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs J. I cant now know what steps it took to do this. But from what I know about 
Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been 
suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr J appears to have been eligible for the policy and doesnt seem to have been 
affected by any of its main exclusions and limitations. Mr J says he wouldnt have 
been able to claim on the policy because he was self-employed. But self-employed 
people were eligible for this policy and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
that Mr J couldnt have made a successful claim if hed been unable to work because 
of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
 
Mr and Mrs J say they didnt need the policy because they already had some cover 
under an existing policy with another provider, and also had savings they could have 
used in need. But Mr and Mrs J dont seem to have been particularly consistent in 
their recall of the amount of cover - or the savings - they had available to them at the 
time. In any case, this policy would have paid out in addition to any other means 
which they might have had of paying their mortgage. It gave a benefit of £600 a 
month and would have paid out for up to twelve months if Mr J was unable to work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. And Mr and Mrs J chose to take 
out the policy, so it seems that they wanted this sort of cover. I also need to bear in 
mind that a mortgage represents a big financial commitment  one where ones 
home is potentially at risk if the mortgage payments cant be met. And so I think that 
Mr and Mrs J would have valued the extra security which the policy gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs J. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled by them if it no longer met 
their needs.
 
BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs J enough clear information about the policy for them to 
decide if they wanted it. I think its possible that the information it gave them could have been 
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for Mr and Mrs J, I dont think that better information would have changed their minds about 
buying it. I think theyd still have thought that the policy provided useful cover at an 
affordable price.
So I dont think that Mr and Mrs J have lost out by anything that BoS may have done wrong 
when it sold them this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs J have said in response to our adjudicators 
view about why they still think the PPI was mis-sold. But this hasnt changed my mind about 
not upholding their complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman