DRN-1273596
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P applied for the PPI during a phone call after theyd submitted their mortgage 
broker had submitted their mortgage application. They wouldve completed an application 
form specifically for the PPI, and chose how the benefit was split between them  70% to 
Mr P and 30% to Mrs P. So, I think Santander made Mr and Mrs P aware that they had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, and it seems to have been right for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. While they had some sick pay 
through their jobs, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this. That wouldve left their sick pay 
available for other things. So, they couldve got by for longer than they would have without 
the PPI. It also provided cover for if Mr or Mrs P were made redundant, which they had no 
other protection against (such as savings). 
Its possible that Santander couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs P would still have bought it. 
Its possible Santander didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover. But Mr and 
Mrs P dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
The regulators rules on high levels of undisclosed commission and profit share do not apply 
to this complaint, because the mortgage became regulated prior to 2008. So, Santander 
doesn't have to refund any commission and profit share that it might have received. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ps comments. But these points dont change my 
conclusion.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman