The complaint
Mrs R complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire agreement financed by Ald 
Automotive Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject it.
What happened
Mrs R is represented by Mr R but for ease of reading Ill mostly refer to her.
Mrs R tells us she acquired a hybrid vehicle in February 2018. In the following months she 
says the vehicle experienced repeated faults which meant that for periods of time it wouldnt 
recharge. This means the electric function wasnt available and the car had to use petrol. 
Mrs R states that Ald has agreed to terminate the agreement and accept rejection of the 
vehicle. But she feels the level of compensation offered is inadequate to reflect the 
intermittent loss of the electric option function.
Ald told us it had agreed to accept rejection of the vehicle. And that on 5 August 2019 it had 
suggested to Mrs R that she may wish to return the vehicle at that point rather than await the 
outcome of the complaint to this service.  It said it would offer to return a pro rata proportion 
of the advance payment. And make a goodwill gesture of £300 towards excess petrol costs. 
It said it had paid £450 to settle an earlier complaint in April 2019.
Our investigator thought Ald's offer was fair. She issued two views the second of which dealt 
with issues raised on behalf of Mrs R after the first view. Our investigator said she thought 
Alds offer to make a pro rata refund of the advance payment was fair and reasonable. And 
that its offer of £300 towards increased fuel costs was also fair. She said she'd taken into 
account that Ald had also made a compensation payment of £450 in April 2019.
On behalf of Mrs R, Mr R didnt agree. He thought the offer of compensation for petrol costs 
was too low. And that no account had been taken of the increased cost in monthly charges 
which amounted to a premium above what the price of a petrol only vehicle would've cost.
As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1418602Im sorry that Mrs R has experienced problems with this vehicle. And I accept it wouldve 
been disappointing that the same charging fault kept intermittently arising. In many ways an 
intermittent fault such as this is more frustrating than a complete failure of a component. As it 
creates a degree of uncertainty as to when the next problem may occur.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
And since my enquires commenced there's been a significant change in circumstances. The 
vehicle has been repaired, in October 2019, to Mrs R's satisfaction. And she's happy to 
retain it and continue with the hire agreement. This means the only remaining issue is what, 
if any, level of compensation is appropriate for the additional fuel costs and intermittent loss 
of function.
So far as excess petrol costs are concerned I agree with our investigators approach. Its not 
possible to be precise about how much is involved. There are so many variables. These 
would include the cost of fuel, the nature and distance of journeys undertaken as well as the 
manner of driving.  And it would be possible to speculate indefinitely about such issues. 
£300 is a fair and reasonable estimate in my opinion.
Ive considered the issue of whether a proportion of monthly payments should also be 
refunded. Mrs R has suggested that users of electric vehicles pay a premium over and 
above what a petrol only vehicle would cost. Whilst appreciating that Mrs R had personal 
reasons for selecting this type of vehicle I don't accept - in general terms - that any 
premium is payable. There are various reasons why different types of vehicle have price 
variations. And in the final analysis a consumer will presumably choose the vehicle that best 
fits their needs within their financial resources.
Ive also reached the conclusion that this is the other side of the same coin as petrol costs. If 
a partial refund is made for loss of the electrical function then it follows the vehicle would 
have had to use the petrol option during such periods. As compensation has been offered for 
the excess cost of petrol thats already been taken into account.
I'm also of the opinion that when considering if Ald has acted fairly I should take into account 
the previous payment of £450. My determination of this complaint is in accordance with the 
Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) which are to be found in the Financial Conduct Authority 
sourcebook.
DISP 3.6.1 states:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
I'm required to take into account all the circumstances and I think an earlier payment of 
compensation for a similar issue with the same vehicle falls within that definition.
 In summary, I accept that this vehicle didn't perform to the expected standards until October 
2019. I also take into account that Mrs R had the opportunity to return the vehicle in early 
August 2019.  I don't think it would be fair and reasonable to make any further award 
beyond this date as Mrs R was aware of  the issues and accepted them.
Ald has made an offer of £300 to Mrs R in respect of the additional petrol costs. I think that's 
fair and reasonable and I shan't be asking Ald to do anything else. In the light of this it may 
be that she would now wish to consider accepting that offer. In which case she should 
contact Ald directly.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above I shan't be asking Ald Automotive Limited to do anything 
else other than what it's already offered. My final decision is I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman