DRN-2902842
The complaint
Mrs C is a sole trader. She complains about the service received from HSBC UK Bank PLC 
when applying for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mrs C applied to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan on 30 May 2020. She asked to borrow 
£2,520.
After submitting her application, Mrs C realised that shed made a mistake with some of the 
information shed provided. Where the bank had asked for details of her turnover, shed 
declared her profit. This affected the amount that she was able to borrow  as the rules of 
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme allowed an applicant to borrow up to 25% of their turnover, 
whereas Mrs C had mistakenly applied for 25% of her profit.
Mrs C says she realised her error shortly after submitting the application and called the bank 
within a couple of days. She says she was told that she could cancel the application after 
receiving approval and the loan agreement, and then reapply. And when subsequently 
responding to HSBCs request for a copy of her tax return to complete the initial application, 
Mrs C pointed out the error in a covering email and asked that both her turnover and the 
loan amount be amended. She wanted to apply for a loan of £3,836.
HSBC proceeded on the basis of the information in the original application. The bank 
approved the request and wrote to Mrs C on 23 June 2020 with a loan agreement for 
£2,520. The terms of the agreement required Mrs C to sign and accept it within ten business 
days, otherwise it would lapse.
Mrs C says she got back in touch with HSBC with a view to obtaining the higher amount, but 
was told that it wasnt possible to amend the figures shed provided at the outset. Mrs C 
accepted the loan of £2,520. But she remained unhappy with the service she received from 
HSBC during the process and, in particular, that she was given conflicting information about 
the ability to amend her application.
In response to Mrs Cs complaint, HSBC said that the Loan Scheme was self-certified and 
that it wasnt possible to amend or revise an application once it was submitted. And while it 
said that the unprecedented circumstances of the pandemic had led to lengthy wait times on 
its phone lines, it paid Mrs C £40 compensation for any distress caused in dealing with the 
matter. 
Mrs C asked us to look into the matter and one of our investigators reviewed her complaint. 
But while sympathising with the position that Mrs C found herself in, he didnt think HSBC 
had done anything wrong. In short, he said that the Loan Scheme was, by design, reliant on 
the online self-declarations made by the applicant  and the volume of applications meant 
that HSBC had, reasonably, limited the circumstances in which applications could be 
amended or resubmitted. So he didnt recommend that HSBC take any further action. 
Mrs C didnt accept our investigators view. She said that even accepting the application 
couldnt be amended, the service received from the bank had caused her a lot of stress and 
taken up a lot of her time for which she thought compensation was due. So she asked that 
an ombudsman review her complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme was designed to allow businesses to access lending 
quickly. With this aim in mind, and in view of the large volume of applications, the process 
was largely reliant on an online application process and the self-declarations made by the 
applicant. 
Looking at the application Mrs C completed, I think the questions that HSBC asked her were 
sufficiently clear. Of relevance here, she was asked for her annual turnover and how much 
she wanted to borrow. I think Mrs C accepts that her need to amend this information came 
about as a result of an unfortunate error on her part, rather than anything done by the bank. 
The issue here is that HSBC wouldnt allow Mrs C to amend the application after it was 
submitted. I can see why Mrs C doesnt think this was fair. And were it not for a Bounce 
Back Loan, Id likely agree with her. But the Bounce Back Loan was quite a unique product, 
which obliged HSBC to comply with a number of additional rules and requirements above 
and beyond its standard regulatory responsibilities. 
HSBC has evidenced to us that under its standard process, it didnt allow applicants to 
reapply and that applications were processed based on the information provided at the 
outset. I think this was a matter for the bank to decide. And given what Ive said above about 
the design and aims of the Scheme and the volume of applications it had to deal with, it 
doesnt strike me as unreasonable. Applications had to be processed quickly, only one 
application per customer was permitted and the demand for borrowing under the Scheme 
was unprecedented. And so I dont think HSBC treated unfairly by declining to amend 
Mrs Cs application or refusing to allow a further application.
I also understand that Mrs C attempted to apply for a top-up loan, after this option was 
subsequently introduced. But eligibility for a top-up loan was also subject to the information 
provided in an applicants original application  and it wasnt possible to amend this, under 
the Loan Scheme rules, when seeking to apply for a further amount. So given the turnover 
that Mrs C declared in her original application, HSBC correctly determined that she wasnt 
eligible to borrow any more. 
Ive also considered what Mrs C has said about the service she received. HSBC hasnt been 
able to find many records of the calls that she describes, but Ive no reason to doubt what 
shes told us. So I accept that she may well have been given incorrect information about 
cancelling and reapplying when speaking to the bank after spotting her error  although 
thankfully, she checked in with the bank again on receiving the loan agreement and was 
given the correct information. I can see that some of the emails Mrs C sent to the bank went 
unanswered and I dont doubt that she spent a long time on phone in trying to discuss the 
matter too. I think its fair to say that Mrs C didnt receive the level of service she was entitled to expect. 
At the same time, I also think its fair to bear in mind the unprecedented circumstances of the 
time. In addition to the large volume of loan applications and associated calls and contact, 
HSBC was also having to deal with the consequences of the pandemic  which would all 
reasonably have affected the level of service it could provide. 
Taking everything into account therefore, I dont think I can fairly require HSBC to 
compensate Mrs C any more than the £40 its already paid  so Im not directing it to take 
any further action.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman