DRN-4068933
The complaint
Mr D complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) set up his rent 
protection insurance policy incorrectly. 
What happened
In January 2021, Mr D took out a rent protection insurance policy through a broker 
online.
The information submitted by Mr D was passed to an administrator, who set up the 
policy on RSAs behalf. The policy documents were sent to Mr D.
In January 2022, Mr D was sent a renewal quote with details of his policy. He called 
the administrator and negotiated a reduction in price and the policy was renewed.
In March 2022, an issue arose with Mr Ds rental property, so he made a claim under 
his policy. This was rejected by RSA on the basis that the policy was set up to cover 
Mr Ds home address, and there was no cover for his rental property. 
Mr D complains that RSA has set his policy up incorrectly and that cover was always 
intended to be in place for his rental property. He wants his claim covered or a refund 
of premiums. 
But RSA says its administrator set up the policy based on the information provided by 
the broker and that at no time did Mr D let it know that this was wrong.
Mr D says he let the administrator know in February 2021 via letter that the policy 
was wrong as well as speaking to them on the phone, but the policy wasnt changed. 
Mr D brought his complaint to our Service, but our Investigator didnt uphold it. He 
was satisfied RSA or its agents hadnt done anything wrong or unfair. As Mr D 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill set these out below. 
RSAs administrator has provided a copy of the information received from the broker 
which shows the property to be insured was listed as Mr Ds home address. Mr D 
acknowledges that he may have made a mistake when inputting his details. 
Mr D was sent the policy documents which showed his home address as the insured 
property. He says he called and wrote to the administrator to inform them that the 
details were incorrect, but Ive been provided with a copy of the administrators 
system notes and there is no record of this call or letter. 
Mr D hasnt provided any record of this call and whilst he has provided a copy of the 
letter, I can see that the documents properties show that it was created in 
September 2022. In any event, RSA didnt receive the letter from Mr D in February 
2021, and it wouldve been his responsibility to follow this up if he hadnt heard 
anything in response. 
Mr D was sent his renewal documents in December 2021 which showed the insured 
property as his home address. The covering letter asked Mr D to check the policy 
documents to ensure the cover meets his demands and needs. This was a further 
opportunity for Mr D to let RSA know it had the wrong property insured. 
Ive been provided with the call notes from Mr Ds renewal in January 2022 where the 
policy premium was discussed. There was no mention of the insured address.
Ive been provided with email correspondence regarding the address, but this is after 
Mr D made his claim and it was declined. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr Ds position and the impact this has had on him, I can only 
uphold a complaint where I find that a business has done something wrong or unfair. And I 
cant say that is the case here. RSA set up Mr Ds policy based on the information it was 
provided with and there is no record that it was informed this was incorrect at any time 
during the life of the policy until after a claim was declined. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman