DRN-2632065
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds valuation of his car and the deductions it 
has made to his settlement.  
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said she had reviewed the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy and the motor industry trade guides. Having done so, 
she was satisfied Aviva had offered a fair valuation of Mr Ms car (£6,733). She added that 
the deductions Aviva had made for the outstanding finance and for the car being declared a 
category N write off were also reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that the valuations do not 
reflect the advertised prices of similar makes and models, and do not fairly consider the 
condition of his car and the extras it had. He added he doesnt have access to the trade 
guides which means he is at a disadvantage when trying to review the valuations. And the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidelines say that insurers should make an offer to 
customers which allows them to buy a similar make and model of car locally.  
Mr M said there was no outstanding finance on the vehicle, and he didnt think Aviva had 
fairly deducted the salvage value from the valuation of his car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
Firstly, Mr M has complained about the handling of his claim by Aviva and its agents, 
including how it communicated with him and failed to provide him with a courtesy car. As that 
has been raised as a separate complaint, I havent considered how the claim was handled 
here. 
Valuing Mr Ms vehicle with industry trade guides
I appreciate Mr Ms concern that he hasnt been able to find a replacement car of equal 
value with the settlement Aviva has offered. And that the extras his car had, show that 
Avivas valuation is too low. 
Mr Ms policy says Aviva will settle the claim by paying him the market value of his car at the 
time of the loss. But that sum isnt necessarily the same amount that the car was purchased 
for or is being advertised for. 
Its not this services role to provide an exact valuation of the car. We consider if the offer 
being made is reasonable based upon the trade guides we use. Those guides are based on 
likely selling prices rather than advertised prices, which allow a margin for negotiation. 
Ive considered the trade guides used by this service which vary, as do the prices of the 
same make and model of cars across the country. And Ive considered the ABI guidelines 
mentioned by Mr M. But I believe the valuation offered by Aviva sufficiently considers 
Mr Ms cars age, mileage and condition. I believe an insurers valuation is fair and 
reasonable if its within the ranges of the various guides we use. And I note the valuation is 
within the ranges from the trade guides. So, I believe this is a fair offer in the circumstances.
The deductions made for outstanding finance and salvage costs
Mr Ms policy explains that Aviva has the right to take over the claim and to pay any 
outstanding finance on the car. 
So, Im satisfied Aviva can take possession of the car. Which means that by agreeing to 
return the car, in exchange for a salvage reduction fee, Aviva was acting outside of the terms 
and conditions. This also explains why the terms and conditions dont mention the 30% 
salvage reduction (£2,019) Aviva made to Mr Ms settlement in the event the car is returned 
to him. 
Our service typically agrees that an insurer should agree to allow consumers to retain their 
cars, despite what the policy says, because the car is still the consumers property until the 
claim is settled. So, they should have the right to keep it if they wish to do so. That said, we 
also typically agree that it is fair for the insurer to deduct the amount it would have received 
for the salvage. This is so that the insurer doesnt lose out as a result of the consumer 
keeping the car.
In this case, Mr Ms policy says that Aviva can settle a claim as it sees fit. So, had Aviva 
stuck to the terms of the policy, it would have been able to sell the car/salvage at auction. 
Mr M decided he wanted to retain the car, and Aviva agreed, so, I think it is fair and 
reasonable that it charged him a reduction fee for salvage so that it didnt lose out financially 
by allowing him to keep the car.
In terms of the amount it paid, Aviva has provided evidence that, based on its knowledge of 
previous sales, cars of a similar value to Mr Ms are likely to bring an expected return of over 
40% of their market value when sold at auction. This figure isnt out of line with my 
understanding of the salvage market. And, as Ive explained, it wouldnt be fair for Aviva to 
lose out by selling the salvage to Mr M for much less than it could get elsewhere. 
In addition, Aviva has confirmed that its process is to deduct 30% from the value of a car 
which is declared a category N write off. So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that 
Aviva has calculated the salvage reduction fee fairly, based on the salvage market for cars 
of a similar value to Mr M's, and that it has applied this fairly and reasonably in this case. 
Aviva has provided evidence that there was an outstanding finance agreement in place on 
Mr Ms vehicle which was due to end in January 2021 and asked Mr M if he had any 
evidence to show the finance agreement had been paid off. However, this was cleared by 
the time Aviva sent its offer to Mr M by cheque and so no outstanding finance was deducted 
from the total amount Aviva paid - £4,714.  
So, Im satisfied Aviva has valued Mr Ms car fairly and has reasonably deducted a 30% 
salvage fee.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman