DRN-2575422
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car supplied with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
Mr P experienced several issues with the car. The battery had to be replaced, as did the 
brake pads and all four tyres. Then main fault occurred in September 2020 when the oil light 
illuminated, and Mr P had to keep topping up the oil. Then the engine started knocking and 
Mr P was no longer able to use the car. 
Mr P contacted the supplying dealer, but it told him it was unable to help because his 
warranty had expired.
Mr P complained to Santander. In response, Santander said it was unable to uphold the 
complaint because Mr P hadnt provided any evidence to show that the fault was present at 
the point of supply.
Mr P was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service. He wants 
Santander to cover the costs of repair and compensate him for the inconvenience hes 
suffered.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was enough evidence to 
say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr P didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. Id expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr P  to have a 
degree of wear and tear and to require more repair and maintenance than, for instance, a 
brand-new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there 
was an inherent fault with the car, as opposed to a fault caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. After 6 months, its up to the consumer to show that there 
was a fault at the point of supply.
Ive looked at the available information to decide whether the car is of a satisfactory quality. I 
understand that Mr P initially had some issues with the battery. These issues were resolved 
by the dealership at no cost to Mr P. I can see that Mr P has travelled over 15,000 miles 
between the point of supply (February 2020) and September 2020 when he first lodged his 
complaint with Santander. So, I think its likely, give his use of the car, that the tyres required 
replacement due to wear and tear. The main issues with the car were experienced in or 
around September 2020, which included the oil warning light and knocking noise.
I can see from the job sheets that Mr P had the car repaired in October 2020. The repairs 
included a full engine recondition and replacement of the turbo.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont doubt that the car had a fault which required repair. And 
from what Ive seen, the repairs were successful. But as Ive said, because the faults 
occurred outside of the first 6 months, its up to Mr P to show that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply. Theres no evidence to suggest that this was the case. The 
garage who carried out the repairs in October 2020 hasnt said whether the fault was likely to 
be a point of supply fault. And although Mr P indicated to this service that he was going to 
obtain an independent inspection of the car, I cant see that hes done this. So, theres no 
evidence that there was a fault with the car at the point of supply. 
I appreciate that it can be frustrating when cars go wrong and require repair. But just 
because a car develops a fault doesnt mean it is of unsatisfactory quality. Second hand car 
are more likely to need repairs due to general wear and tear. In this case, and taking into 
account the age of the car and the mileage Mr P has been able to cover before the fault 
occurred, I think that if there had been a point of supply fault it wouldve presented itself 
much sooner than 7 months after inception of the agreement. 
Based on what Ive seen. Im not persuaded that there is enough evidence to show that the 
car had a fault at the point of supply or that it isnt of satisfactory quality. So, I wont be 
asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman