DRN-4346048
The complaint
Miss G complains Vitality Life Limited unfairly declined her claim, following the death of her 
husband, Mr V.
Miss Gs complaint is brought on her behalf by a representative, but for ease I will refer to all 
representations as having been made by Miss G herself.
What happened
Miss G and the late Mr V took out a joint life assurance policy underwritten by Vitality, in 
December 2019.
In 2021, Mr V very sadly passed away, and a claim was made against the policy. Vitality said 
when it assessed the claim, it found Mr V had made a misrepresentation when taking out the 
policy. And it said because of this, the claim would not be paid. 
Vitality said Mr V had answered an application question about alcohol incorrectly, as a 
medical report contained evidence that he had in the past been an alcoholic. And, it said had 
Mr V disclosed this information when taking out the policy, the application for cover would 
have been declined. Vitality classed the misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless, declined 
the claim, avoided the policy and retained the premiums paid. 
The evidence Vitality received included a witness statement completed by Miss G shortly 
after Mr Vs death. She made two separate references to him having been an alcoholic in 
the past, and as a recovering alcoholic.
Also, Mr Vs GP records include a reference to him having been drinking a lot and a 
possible seizure after 3 bottles of red wine in October 2010. And a couple of months later 
stopped drinking since last appt. In 2011 the records reflected Mr V being a non drinker 
and in February 2018 recovering alcoholic. Also in May 2018 its stated a blood sample 
was taken on the request of Mr Vs employer due to drinking history. 
And in 2021, a report from Dr B states the following. Based on the ages Dr B referenced, this 
relates to some point in 2017 or 2018.
a history of being an alcoholic. Between the ages of [], he was heavily 
dependent on alcohol but managed to stop that and has now been dry for three years 
with a very strong attachment to Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) which he finds very 
helpful. 
Miss G complained to Vitality and appealed its decision. However, Vitality didnt uphold the 
complaint and maintained its position that the claim was declined.   
Unhappy with Vitalitys response, Miss G brought her complaint to this service and provided 
the following additional comments.
Mr V was aware of his alcohol intake when he was younger and made a personal 
decision to abstain. He had never been advised to reduce his alcohol intake, but 
chose to do so of his own volition;
Miss Gs witness statement, taken a few days after Mr Vs death, is unreliable due to 
her state of mind, and her words were not intended to mean that Mr V was an 
alcoholic; 
the entries related to drinking in Mr Vs medical history and use of the term 
recovering alcoholic, do not prove that he was advised to reduce his alcohol intake;
the medical records reflect advice given about smoking and diet, so if advice had 
been given about alcohol, this would also have been recorded; 
Mr V never failed any of his occupational drink or drugs testing; and
Vitality has provided insufficient evidence that there was a misrepresentation, or that 
this was reckless. 
The case was passed to me to decide and I thought Vitality had declined the claim unfairly, 
so I issued a provisional decision to both parties.
My provisional decision
In reviewing this case, Ive concentrated on the issue I think is at the heart of this 
complaint, which is whether or not Mr V made a misrepresentation when answering 
Vitalitys application questions. Having done so, I dont currently think Vitality has 
acted fairly. And Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For 
it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Vitality has said Mr V failed to take reasonable care when answering no to the 
below question, when he took out the policy.
Have you ever been advised to reduce your alcohol intake because you were 
drinking too heavily?
The medical records and other evidence provided has persuaded me that Mr V most 
likely had a drinking problem prior to taking out the policy in 2019. I say this because 
there are several references to heavy alcohol drinking in Mr Vs medical records as 
well as alcoholics anonymous. In particular, in October 2010 its noted that Mr V 
may have had a seizure after drinking three bottles of wine. And at the next 
appointment around two months later, the GP noted Mr V said he had stopped 
drinking since the last visit. Miss G made references to Mr V being an alcoholic in the statement she gave to 
police. I accept and appreciate this statement was given in the days shortly after her 
husbands death and that this would of course have been a very traumatic and 
distressing time. However, this doesnt persuade me that her statements relating to 
Mr V as having been an alcoholic were therefore untrue or unreliable.  
However, the test here is not whether Mr V had a drinking problem in the past. What I 
need to decide, is if  Mr V made a misrepresentation when he took out his policy. The 
question Vitality asked was if Mr V had been advised to reduce his alcohol intake 
because of drinking too heavily. And Ive not seen evidence that Mr V received that 
advice. The medical evidence supports that there were periods where he drank 
heavily, and that he stopped drinking. Miss G has said Mr V stopped drinking of his 
own volition, and Ive not seen any persuasive evidence which contradicts that. 
Dr Bs report in 2021 reflects Mr V as having had a heavy dependency on alcohol 
around 2017 or 2018. However, there is no mention of Mr V having received advice 
to drink less. And Mr Vs GP records also do not contain evidence that he was given 
advice to drink less. 
Ive found Mr Vs own reporting of his drinking within his medical records to be 
conflicting at times, and therefore unreliable. There is record of him having said he 
had a heavy dependence on alcohol in 2017 / 2018, also between 2006 and 2017. 
However, he also reported being teetotal during a GP visit in 2011.  I think it also 
follows that Mr V wouldnt have been given advice to reduce drinking, at times when 
he had stated he wasnt drinking alcohol. 
Miss G has said she thinks Mr Vs medical records would show a record of advice to 
reduce alcohol, if it had been given. As advice given on other matters such as diet 
and smoking is recorded. Ive thought carefully about this. Ive noted that Mr Vs 
records reflect advice being given around diet, exercise and smoking, but not alcohol. 
I think in a medical setting where heavy alcohol drinking is discussed; advice to drink 
less is likely to be given. However, I also have to look at the evidence available. And 
there is no evidence that advice to drink less was given to Mr V. And so I dont think it 
was fair for Vitality to have concluded that he received that advice. 
Turning back to the question Vitality asked about alcohol: it seems possible to me 
that Vitality wanted to know if Mr V had any history of a drinking problem. However, 
thats not the question it asked, and its the insurers responsibility to ask clear 
questions. The question was very specific in nature  it asked whether or not Mr V 
had ever been advised to reduce his alcohol intake, due to drinking too heavily. And 
Ive not been not satisfied by the evidence Ive seen, that Mr V made a 
misrepresentation by answering no to that question. 
Ive considered what good industry practice was at the time of claim as set out in the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice; in particular the guidance 
regarding lifestyle.  But, as there is no clearly evidenced misrepresentation, I havent 
found it to be helpful in the facts of this case.
I dont think Vitality has adequately evidenced Mr V made a qualifying 
misrepresentation when he took out his policy. As such, I dont think Vitality was 
entitled to avoid the policy and decline the claim. As Ive not been sufficiently 
persuaded a misrepresentation was made, its my intention to direct Vitality to re-
instate the policy and assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions.The response to my provisional decision 
Miss Gs representative advised that she accepted my provisional decision. However, they 
questioned if interest should be added to the settlement due to the delay and emotional and 
financial detriment Miss G has suffered since the claim was rejected. 
Vitality disagreed with my provisional decision. And Ive summarised its representations 
below. 
Vitality referenced the ABI code and an example related to smoking; 
it said it is not only medical evidence which should be considered as relevant;
it provided opinions from medical professionals, including a statement that it is 
inconceivable that Mr V was not given advice to drink less in the circumstances; and
a previous decision issued by this service conflicts with my outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the responses.
Firstly, Vitality has referenced a previous final decision issued by this service. Each 
complaint brought to us is determined on its own merits. No two cases will be exactly the 
same and we dont have a system of precedent; although we do endeavour to be consistent. 
My role as an ombudsman is to consider the individual complaint in front of me, and to 
decide whether something has gone wrong. Im required to reach a decision that is fair and 
reasonable on that complaint, notwithstanding what the service may have recommended or 
decided, in other cases with their own individual circumstances. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I considered the ABI code when reviewing this case. I 
note Vitality has raised the example within the code related to smoking. But the question 
asked in this case is not as straightforward as being a smoker or non-smoker. Vitalitys 
question was much more specific than asking if Mr V drank alcohol or not; or asking how 
many units were consumed. It specifically focussed on whether Mr V had received advice to 
drink less. 
I agree with Vitality that its question does not specify the advice to drink less must be 
medical advice. And I agree that any reasonable person ought to have interpreted the 
question to relate to any advice to drink less, not just medical advice. I would consider 
evidence of any advice to drink less to be relevant, but Ive not been provided with evidence 
from any source which proves Mr V was given this advice. I agree there are varying 
references to heavy drinking, alcoholism and support groups within the statements and 
reports provided. However, the matter in question is not whether Mr V had struggled with 
heavy drinking, its specifically whether or not he was given advice to drink less. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I think on balance, it is more likely than not that a GP 
would give advice to reduce alcohol consumption in the circumstances noted during the 
appointment in October 2010. However, Ive been presented with no tangible evidence of 
this, or any other occasion or situation when such advice was given. 
The test I need to apply is whether Mr V mis-declared when answering Vitalitys question 
about alcohol. The burden of proof sits with Vitality to show a mis-representation was made. And Im still not satisfied that it was, because Ive not seen evidence which categorically 
shows any advice to drink less was ever given. 
Ive noted Vitality said it thinks its inconceivable that Mr V would not have been given advice 
to drink less in his circumstances. And its provided statements from medical professionals 
explaining approaches to drinking issues, and why advice around drinking may not be 
documented. 
Knowing this information, I think Vitality could have taken this into account when designing 
its questions. And could have asked its question about alcohol in a different way, to ensure it 
obtained the information it needed. 
Whilst I do understand Vitalitys overall position, I think it asked a very specific question and 
Ive not seen evidence to support the allegation that Mr V failed to answer that question 
truthfully. 
Miss Gs representative raised the question of interest. Im unable to direct Vitality to pay 
interest on the claim settlement, as my findings in this case are that the policy should be 
reinstated, and the claim re-assessed. However, should Miss G be unhappy with the 
outcome of Vitalitys re-assessment of the claim, she can raise a new complaint at that time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Vitality Life Limited to re-instate 
the policy and re-assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and the 
estate of Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman