DRN-1250153
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the service shes received from HSBC UK Bank Plc in relation to her 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI).
What happened
Ms G took out a mortgage and MPPI with HSBC in March 1999. She paid one premium of 
£20.58 and then the policy was cancelled.
In October 2017 Ms G contacted HSBC to ask if she had previously held MPPI. HSBC 
replied to say it had carried out a search and hadnt located a policy on its system, but said if 
Ms G had any records of a policy being taken out then it could look into it again.
In January 2019 HSBC contacted Ms G. It said that due to an error in its process it didnt 
check with a third party company (which administered HSBCs MPPI policies) when Ms G 
enquired in 2017. It apologised for the oversight and said it had now located this MPPI 
policy. It also gave Ms G the address to write to if she wanted to complain about the sale of 
it.
In March 2019 Ms G contacted HSBC. She was unhappy that she hadnt received the 
January letter until then and also that HSBC wouldnt fill in the complaint forms for her. Ms G 
went on to make a formal complaint about the sale of the policy.
HSBC rejected the mis-sale complaint but didnt respond to the complaint about the delay in 
the January letter reaching her. Unhappy with that Ms G contacted HSBC again. She then 
wasnt happy with how her complaint was dealt with. HSBC apologised for everything that 
had happened and offered £150 compensation on 24 July as a gesture of goodwill for any 
stress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought that was a fair offer. Ms G didnt agree and so its been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I trust Ms G wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome. 
Whilst Ms Gs complaint originally included whether her MPPI had been mis-sold, that part of 
the complaint wasnt referred to us. So, all were dealing with here are the customer service 
elements. Those are;HSBC told Ms G in 2017 that she hadnt held MPPI,
Ms G didnt receive HSBCs letter dated 8 January 2019 until 6 March 2019, and
HSBC mismanaged her complaint.
 
HSBC admitted it made a mistake in 2017. It searched all its systems and couldnt find a 
record of any MPPI policy, but it neglected to contact the third-party administrator firm to ask 
it. HSBC did however tell Ms G that if she had a record of a policy it would look into it.
Nothing further happened until HSBC proactively wrote to Ms G in January 2019 to explain 
its earlier oversight. Im satisfied that letter was issued as part of a mailing campaign HSBC 
carried out for all its customers in Ms Gs position, and for that reason it cant provide any 
evidence of when the letter was posted. Ms G seems to think HSBC was trying to 
deliberately mislead, but I dont agree. 
In any event the delay in Ms G receiving the letter  whether that was HSBCs fault or 
whether the letter got delayed, or briefly mislaid, in the postal system  didnt cause her any 
detriment. Ms G was still able to get her MPPI complaint in long before the deadline to 
complain. Having considered everything there are no grounds to award Ms G any 
compensation for the 2019 letter issue as we have nothing to show it was an error by HSBC 
(rather than a postal problem) nor did it cause Ms G any loss.
HSBC has apologised for the mistakes it made when Ms G complained - such as mis-
allocating the complaint and not calling her back when promised (amongst others) - which 
led to Ms G having to phone it so many times to chase things up.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case these were simple human errors. Ms Gs mis-sale complaint was 
rejected anyway, so the delay in dealing with that (from 2017 to 2019) didnt cause her any 
financial detriment. And whilst Ms G was inconvenienced by having to call HSBC to follow 
things up, I must keep in mind these were only in relation customer service issues, so again 
not things that had caused (or were likely to cause) Ms G a financial loss if they werent dealt 
with quickly. 
To be clear, Im not saying HSBC doesnt have to deal with customer service complaints 
well, I just have to bear in mind theres no potential financial impact here such that there 
might be if, for instance, Ms Gs complaint related to a fraudulent transaction on an account 
or a declined claim under an MPPI policy. I only mention this to provide some context on 
why the compensation due for the trouble and upset caused here is a lot lower than it would 
be for an equivalent mistake that had a large financial impact on a consumer.
HSBC offered £150 compensation. Ms G says she wants more. Shes also not happy that 
HSBC has referred to it as a gesture of goodwill and feels the investigator (by agreeing that 
was fair compensation) has shown she doesnt think HSBC acted unprofessionally.
Its not the role of this service to fine or punish businesses, and our awards of compensation 
arent punitive. Whilst I acknowledge Ms G would like us to chastise HSBC thats not our 
role. It makes no difference to the award whether HSBC refers to it as a gesture of goodwill 
or compensation for the problems that occurred. All Im looking at it whether the amount is 
fair, not how it was described. And having done so  whilst I acknowledge HSBC didnt 
provide a good customer experience to Ms G  Im satisfied £150 is fair compensation for 
everything that happened (and didnt happen). If this complaint had come to me without an 
offer already having been made, I wouldnt have awarded more.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider the £150 already offered by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc is fair. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, 
which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman