DRN-3082538
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc caused delays when it 
asked for the charge to be released on one of its properties. The complaint has been 
brought on behalf of J by two of its directors, who Ill refer to as Mr G and Ms G. They say J 
incurred costs of about £2,450 which they said were wasted. They ask that TMW 
compensates them for this.
What happened
J took out a portfolio mortgage with TMW. The loan was secured on two properties. TMW 
wrote to J in late 2017 saying it no longer offers portfolio mortgages and Js mortgage would 
have to be repaid when the term expired in June 2018.
TMW sent a redemption statement to J in mid-2018. As the mortgage wasnt repaid it sent 
reminders and notice that it might appoint a receiver. Mr G wrote to TWM in late 2018 saying 
they were having difficulty re-mortgaging and their broker was looking for a solution. TMW 
said it would extend the mortgage term if J provided evidence it was in the process of 
remortgaging.
In February 2019 J applied to TMW to release one of its properties from its charge  known 
as a release of property or ROP. TMW needed to value the properties to decide how much 
of the loan needed to be repaid for it to agree to this. There was an error with the valuations, 
and as a result the ROP figure of £192,000 wasnt provided until early July 2019. TMW paid 
£150 for the delays.
TMW says there was no further contact from J until it applied for another ROP in December 
2019. Due to the time passed TMW required new valuations.
TMW accepts it made caused a delay in providing the ROP and paid compensation of £150. 
I sent a provisional decision to the parties in early September 2020 saying I thought this was 
fair. I said it wasnt fair to require TMW to pay further compensation unless J provides 
evidence of its financial loss.
J didnt agree. Ms G said she would send evidence of Js financial loss. Despite extending 
the deadline for her to do so we havent received this evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 20 February 2019 J applied to TMW for a ROP. The application form says the expected 
redemption date was 28 February 2019. TMW needed to value the properties to decide how 
much of the loan needed to be repaid for it to agree to this  the ROP figure.
In early March 2019 Ms G asked about taking out individual buy to let mortgages with TMW. 
TMW said this might be possible but Ms G would need the ROP figures before contacting its 
buy to let team.
Valuations were carried out in March and April 2019. The valuer said the properties werent 
suitable for mortgage lending purposes as they were outside TMWs lending criteria, and 
gave a zero valuation. This was an error: the valuations had been carried out as purchase 
valuations rather than for ROP purposes. After Ms G chased TMW in early June, it went 
back to the valuers to ask for a ROP valuation. TMW provided an ROP figure to J in July 
2019. The ROP figure expired after 90 days. TMW says it didnt hear from J again until 
December 2019.
There were delays in the ROP process when J applied in February 2019, and I think its right 
that TMW offered compensation. What I have to decide is how much compensation is fair 
and reasonable.
Ms G says J incurred costs, including legal costs, in relation to the re-mortgage. She 
provided a copy of a solicitors invoice for the failed re-mortgage. Ms G says the re-mortgage 
fell through because of the delays with the ROP figure. However, she didnt provide 
evidence to support this. 
Our investigator asked Ms G for a copy of the mortgage offer from the new lender and 
evidence that the re-mortgage fell through due to the delays. Our investigator asked Ms G to 
explain why J was unable to complete the remortgage  or remortgage with another lender  
in the 90 days before the ROP figure expired. Ms G said shed already provided all of this 
information, and shown that TMW were at fault, but would send it again. Unfortunately, we 
didnt receive this information.
I agree that TMW made errors which caused delays in the ROP figure being provided. But I 
havent seen evidence that this caused Js remortgage to fall through  or even evidence 
that J had a mortgage offer from another lender. Without this, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require TMW to pay compensation for any of Js costs related to the failed 
remortgage.
Ms G had to chase TMW for the ROP figure and this will have caused some inconvenience. I 
think £150 compensation for this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the compensation 
paid by The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman