DRN-4037905
The complaint
Mr L complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to attend when his vehicle broke
down on the motorway under his breakdown assistance policy.
What happened
A wheel came off Mr Ls vehicle when he was driving on the motorway. He called UKI but
couldnt get through. He says when he did speak to an agent, he was told a recovery
wouldnt be provided. Mr L arranged for a recovery through Highways England to a nearby
service station for which he paid £250.
Mr L says that when he got through to UKI he was told that if he had hit something, he would
need to claim through his motor insurance. He told the agent he hadnt hit anything. Also,
that the police advised him that UKI should arrange for a recovery. Mr L says UKIs agent
told him the police didnt know the policy and that he would need to contact his insurer.
Whilst he was still talking, he says the agent cut the call off.
Mr L says he returned home, which is some distance from where the breakdown occurred.
He contacted UKI again and it agreed to tow his vehicle. He returned to his vehicle to meet
UKIs recovery driver. He says UKI told him only a local tow was covered not a tow back to
his home. Mr L says he arranged for his vehicle to be towed to a friends property who lived
closer to the area where the breakdown occurred.
In order to arrange for repairs to his vehicle Mr L says he had to make four trips. He says he
lost a total of nine days work as a result. Had his vehicle been towed to his home, Mr L says
this couldve been avoided.
Mr L says the breakdown occurred on a smart motorway. This meant he was stuck in a live
lane which was very distressing. Especially when he couldnt get through to UKI initially, and
then when it refused to provide a recovery service.
Mr L complained to UKI. It offered to pay the cost of his recovery off the motorway in addition
to £100 compensation. Mr L didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. He says a total compensation payment of £650 is fair
to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience UKI caused. In addition to £250 to cover the
cost of the recovery Mr L paid.
Our investigator says Mr L had to arrange alternative travel back to his home address on the
day of the breakdown. As well as the cost of returning to the area where his vehicle had
been recovered to, the following day, to allow UKI to provide a tow to his desired location.
UKI disagreed with this outcome. It says its initial offer of compensation was too low. But felt
£400 would be fair. It asked for this offer be put to Mr L. He didnt accept this offer and didnt
confirm his agreement to our investigators view.
Because an agreement hasnt been reached the complaint has been passed to me to
decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ls complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Let me explain.
From the records UKI provided I can see that Mr L has the Recovery Plus breakdown
assistance cover. Ive read his policy terms to understand the cover provided. The terms
say:
..if your vehicle cant be fixed locally the same day, well take you, your passengers and
your vehicle to a single destination of your choice, anywhere in the UK.
And:
We may choose to arrange recovery of the vehicle separately to you and your passengers 
we will tell you if we are going to do this and let you know when the vehicle can be
delivered.
From the description of the breakdown, it wasnt possible to repair the vehicle the same day.
Even if it was, UKI didnt attend until the day after the breakdown for a repair to have been
attempted. The policy terms say UKI shouldve taken Mr L and his vehicle to a destination of
his choice within the UK. I dont think it was fair that he had to arrange for alternative
transport when this didnt happen.
This also meant that Mr L had to return to the service station where his vehicle was parked
the following day. Again, at his own expense. This was to allow UKI to arrange a tow.
UKIs records indicate it was Mr L that specified the destination for the tow. But in his
complaint, he says UKI told him he could only have a tow within the local area.
The records show UKI called Mr L two days after the breakdown. This was to discuss its
offer of reimbursement and compensation. At this time Mr L said it would have been more
convenient to have his vehicle towed home. UKIs agent queried why he hadnt specified his
home location instead of the one he gave. The record says Mr L thought a tow was limited to
within 30 miles. He said he didnt want to push his luck by asking for a tow home, which
would be about 158 miles.
In these circumstances I think its reasonable that UKI reimburses Mr L for his travel costs on
the day of the breakdown. As well as the following day when he had to return to his vehicle.
This is because UKI failed to arrange transportation for Mr L and recovery of his vehicle on
the day of the breakdown.
However, the following day UKI towed Mr Ls vehicle to the destination he instructed it to.
Because of this I dont think UKI is liable for any additional travel costs, or compensation for
inconvenience, following the tow it provided. Had Mr L given his home address or a garage
close to his home, further travel costs and inconvenience could have been avoided.
Ive not been provided with call recordings from when Mr L first contacted UKI. However, the
business has provided a summary of what was said. This is the call after Mr L had arranged
the recovery via Highways England as he couldnt get through to UKI. It accepts there was
no basis for its agent to decline the claim. It also says its agent ended the call whilst Mr Lwas still talking. From this description its clear UKIs agent handled the claim incorrectly and
unprofessionally.
Ive thought carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr L. Breaking down on a motorway
must have been a stressful experience. Particularly in this case as there was nowhere to
stop other than in a live lane. Id expect UKI to respond swiftly in these circumstances and
arrange for a recovery as per the terms of its policy. Because it didnt, this made a stressful
situation far worse. UKIs incorrect action also caused Mr L inconvenience when he had to
arrange his own travel from and then back to the service station where his vehicle was
parked.
We asked Mr L to clarify where he stayed the night after the breakdown. He says he was
able to stay with a friend and didnt return to his home address that night. He says a friend
drove him back to his car the next day and also helped him to locate the wheel that came off
his vehicle. We asked Mr L to evidence the travel costs he incurred. But he hasnt provided
information to support this point.
Having considered all of this, I think UKI should compensate Mr L for the inconvenience and
distress it caused him. In these circumstances I think a total payment for £400 is fair, in
addition to the fee he paid to the Highways Agency. I acknowledge this compensation
amount is lower than our investigator thought was reasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Mr L
and by no means is my intention to diminish the distress he felt. But I think this represents
fair compensation for the failings described and for the impact this had.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and U K Insurance Limited should:
reimburse Mr L with the cost of his recovery off the motorway, if it hasnt already; and
pay Mr L £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI responded to say it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Mr L didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that U K 
Insurance Limited should:
reimburse Mr L with the cost of his recovery off the motorway, if it hasnt already; and
pay Mr L £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman