DRN-4164670
The complaint
Mrs D complains that a car acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mrs D was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers.
In December 2022  and within 30 days of the inception of the finance agreement  Mrs D 
contacted the dealership and reported an issue with the rear suspension. 
Mrs D also contacted Close Brothers and explained that the rear suspension had failed and 
that she wanted to reject the car.
Mrs D says that the dealership refused to do anything until the car had been returned to 
them so she paid £250 to have the vehicle uplifted back to the dealership.
Mrs D contacted Close Brothers and told them what had happened. Close Brothers 
contacted the dealership, who advised that a rejection had not been agreed as they wanted 
to inspect the vehicle.
Close Brothers arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out. The inspection was 
completed in January 2023 and concluded that the issues reported by Mrs D werent present 
at the point of supply and that the dealership wasnt liable.
Close Brother said that Mrs D had to allow them one opportunity to repair the fault. Close 
Brothers also said that the wrong type of truck had been used when the vehicle was uplifted 
to the dealership and that the car had suffered some damage underneath as a result.
Mrs D wanted to reject the car and made a complaint. The dealership sent her a letter saying 
it was happy to buy the car back deducting a cost for mileage usage and the two sills that 
had been damaged when the car was uplifted back to them. Close Brothers wouldnt agree 
to the car being sold because it said there wasnt a fault. The dealership said it was up to 
Mrs D to sort things out with Close Brothers. It also said that it would charge Mrs D for 
storing the car at a daily rate of £25 plus VAT.
Mrs D brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that based on the evidence shed seen, she 
was satisfied that there was a fault with the rear suspension. The investigator said that Mrs 
D had asserted her short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days and said she 
should be allowed to reject the car.
Close Brothers didnt agree. It said the independent inspection report confirmed that there 
were no faults. It acknowledged that the inspection report hadnt explained why the rear 
suspension was so low when the pictures were taken but said that this factor didnt bear 
enough weight to contradict the conclusions in the independent report. Close Brothers said it 
had carried out some research and had found that suspension may be temporarily low for a 
number of reasons, such as cold weather or an auto levelling system. It said that upon 
starting the car the suspension would be expected to adjust. Close Brothers said that the 
independent report confirmed that when the car was started and driven, the issue wasnt 
present. Close Brothers said that on balance the issue was likely to be a temporary one and 
that there was no evidence that the issue had occurred over an extended period of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of 
goods includes their general condition and other things including fitness for purpose, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mrs D  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand new car. In order to uphold Mrs 
Ds complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car which was 
present at the point of supply, and which made the car of unsatisfactory quality, rather than a 
fault which occurred due to general wear and tear.
Under the relevant legislation, where a car isnt of satisfactory quality, the consumer has a 
short term right to reject it within the first 30 days. After that, a consumer has a final right to 
reject which can be exercised within the first 6 months. The final right to reject is subject to 
the business being given one opportunity to repair the fault. The right of repair isnt 
applicable to the short term right to reject.
In this case, Mrs D reported the failed rear suspension within the first 30 days and asserted 
her short term right to reject.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the rear 
suspension. I say this because the photos provided by Mrs D show that the rear of the car is 
much lower than the front.  Ive also taken into account the evidence provided by Close 
Brothers about what the dealership said when the car was uplifted back to them. The 
dealership said the car had been uplifted on the wrong type of truck which resulted in 
damage being caused to the underneath of the car due to the suspension being so low. 
Taking these two pieces of evidence into account, Im persuaded that there was a fault with 
the rear suspension.
I appreciate that the independent report doesnt conclude that there is a fault with the rear 
suspension. However, the report doesnt address the photos of the car which clearly shows 
the rear to be significantly lower than the front. Nor does it address why the height of the rear 
suspension was a factor in the underside of the car being damaged when it was uplifted to 
the dealership. I would have expected the engineer to comment on these issues and provide 
some explanation. In the circumstances I dont find the report persuasive. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Mrs D reported the issues with the rear suspension within a very short time of getting the 
car. Im satisfied based on the evidence that Ive seen  including the photos and the 
evidence relating to the uplift of the car  that there was a fault with the rear suspension at 
the point of supply.Ive already said that Mrs D asserted her short term right to reject the car within the first 30 
days. Im of the view that she should have been allowed to reject the car at that point 
because of the fault with the rear suspension. It follows that Close Brothers should take 
steps to put things right now.
Putting things right
Ive already said that Mrs D should be allowed to reject the car.
Mrs D hasnt used the car since 15 December 2022 because of the fault with the rear 
suspension. The car has been at the dealership since 29 December 2022. I think Mrs D 
acted reasonably in not using the car. Up until that point, Mrs D covered around 1000 miles 
in the car. The relevant legislation allows a business to make a deduction for fair usage. 
Here, I think Close Brothers should retain one monthly payment to reflect fair usage. But any 
further monthly payments made by Mrs D should be refunded.
Its clear that Mrs D has been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of being 
supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. She hasnt been able to use the car 
and has had to make alternative transport arrangements. I think its fair to ask Close 
Brothers to pay compensation to reflect this.
The dealership has charged storage fees. I dont think its fair to expect Mrs D to pay these 
charges because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied and I think her 
request to reject should have been allowed when she first made it i.e. in December 2022. 
Because Close Brothers didnt accept the request to reject when it should have done, it 
should meet any storage charges sought by the dealership.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Close Brothers Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs D
Refund all rental payments made by Mrs D save for the December 2022 payment (which 
reflects fair usage)
Refund the £250 uplift costs provided Mrs D can provide evidece of this
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mrs Ds credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman