DRN-4097701
The complaint
Mr G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has given misleading information about his 
account balance and available amount to spend on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr G says in early February 2023 Capital One recorded his account balance incorrectly. He 
says between 1 February 2023 and 7 February 2023 his available balance increased by £9 
before being reduced by the same amount. Mr G says he asked Capital One for information 
but didnt receive clear answers. He says he would like compensation for what took place.
Capital One says the transaction for £9 took longer than usual to be correctly processed. It 
says the process depends on a number of factors and that on this occasion, it seems that 
the card provider, not it, took slightly longer than usual to complete its part. Capital One says 
as a result of the delay, it increased Mr Gs available balance by £9 before reducing it shortly 
afterwards.
Mr G brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didnt think Mr G had been disadvantaged by what took place and that there 
were a number of factors involved in a transaction of this nature. The investigator didnt think 
in any event there had been a real impact on Mr G.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and says the investigator ought to have spoken to the 
company he made the transaction to. He says compensation is justified and says Capital 
One is at fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place.
I am sure Mr G appreciates that any transaction such as this involves a number of different 
businesses and must follow a process. I can see that Capital One correctly reduced Mr Gs 
available account balance by £9 but later increased it by the same amount when the 
payment was not taken within the usual time period. I am also satisfied on balance that 
Capital One correctly reduced the balance again when the payment was taken on 7 
February 2023. I appreciate it may have been confusing to see the available balance change 
in this way and that normally such transactions do not take as long to process.
Capital One has explained that at the time, there was an issue with the card provider and 
that may explain the slightly longer processing time. I cant fairly hold Capital One 
responsible for the actions of a third party and think it likely on balance that was the reason 
for the delay.
I appreciate Mr G says we should speak to the business Mr G made the payment to. But I 
agree with the investigator that there is no need to do so in circumstances where there is no 
suggestion it made a mistake.
Im satisfied that as there was a slight delay in the transaction being processed that Capital 
One was entitled to increase Mr Gs available account balance by £9 for what was a very 
short time period. I dont think Capital One made a mistake or acted unfairly by doing so. In 
any event I dont think Mr G suffered any financial impact as a result of what took place and 
think the increase was a relatively minimal amount of £9. I cant see that compensation is 
justified here for those reasons.
Overall, Im satisfied it more likely here that there were external factors outside Capital Ones 
control that led to what I think was a very slight delay in processing a £9 payment. It follows 
that I cant fairly order Capital One pay compensation or do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman