DRN-2807339
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the settlement offered by Aviva Insurance Limited in respect of 
her buildings insurance claim for subsidence.
What happened
Mrs B contacted Aviva when she noticed damage to her property. Aviva carried out an 
inspection but thought the damage was due to historic movement caused by a lack of 
lateral restraint, and didnt think there was ongoing subsidence. Mrs B then arranged her 
own inspection, and her expert thought a nearby tree may be causing ongoing movement.
Aviva therefore carried out a period of monitoring and found the nearby tree had been 
causing subsidence. The tree was removed, and Aviva established that the movement 
had stopped. However, Aviva didnt think all of the damage to the property had been 
caused by the subsidence. It therefore decided to settle the claim by making a cash 
settlement to Mrs B of £11,777.35.
Unhappy with Avivas offer, Mrs B brought a complaint to this service. She didnt 
think Avivas cash settlement was high enough for her to get the repair work done.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the damage to Mrs Bs 
property hadnt all been caused by subsidence, and so she thought Avivas cash settlement 
was fair.  
I issued a provisional decision on 23 April 2021. Heres what I said:
In 2014, Mrs B arranged for a structural engineer (Mr L) to carry out an inspection. He 
thought movement and cracking to the property may have been caused by the nearby tree. 
He recommended that monitoring take place to establish if this were the case. Mr L also 
said:
As discussed it is unlikely to be 100% caused by the tree but it is my view that the tree 
and soil shrinkage is playing some part and at the very least cannot be ruled out.
Aviva arranged for a period of monitoring to take place and found there was subsidence. 
I understand that the cause of this (the tree) was removed, and Aviva found the property 
was no longer moving. It therefore needed to arrange repairs for the subsidence damage.
However, when Avivas subsidence expert inspected the property in July 2020, he didnt 
think all the damage to the property had been caused by subsidence. He said there was 
damage that had been caused by old plaster finishes, previous/historic alterations, the 
deflection of first floor partitions built directly off the floor structure, render failure, rear 
boundary retaining wall failure, lack of restraint issues and historic settlement causing 
some bulging of brickwork and stone work to the front right-hand corner and to a front 
right boundary wall. He said this distortion was very old as shown by two very old lateral 
ties on the gable wall.
Mrs B hasnt raised concerns about the schedule of repair work that Aviva has put 
together for the main house. And she hasnt provided any evidence to support that 
Avivas schedule of work for the main house doesnt cover all the repairs caused by the 
subsidence damage. Consequently, Im satisfied that Avivas schedule of work in respect 
of the main house was appropriate.
It seems Mrs Bs concerns centre around the external walls. As I understand it, there 
is a front wall, a right-hand side wall, and a boundary wall to the right-hand side.
Mr L thought there was evidence of both historic and ongoing movement to the walls. He 
noted the front wall and boundary wall were both in poor condition. He also observed 
there was evidence of historic repairs and stabilisation of one of the walls, as steel ties 
had been installed in an attempt to restrain the lateral movement. Mr L thought the front 
and right-hand side walls had evidence of recent and ongoing crack damage. He also 
pointed out that the movement to the boundary wall seemed to be below the steel ties. Mr 
L thought the crack damage was more severe to the front wall and the boundary wall, than 
to the front wall.
Avivas subsidence expert made it clear that he thought there was historic damage to the 
walls, but only commented on subsidence damage in respect of the front wall (he said 
there was little in the way of subsidence damage to this wall), and didnt specifically 
comment in respect of subsidence damage to the other two walls.
Mrs B has since employed the services of another engineer (Mr W). Mr W provided further 
clarification to our investigator. He said that the movement was due to shrinkage of the 
ground at the corner of the building. And that he was not denying that the building had had 
remedial ties between walls to prevent lateral movement, but said the problem was below 
the ties. Mr W said he thought Avivas settlement offer was low compared to what he 
thought was the correct cost for the complete remediation of the walls.
Given that Mr L specifically commented on the crack damage to all the walls caused by 
ongoing movement, Im persuaded that Mrs B has shown there was subsidence damage 
to all three of the external walls. However, I appreciate that there was also evidence of 
historic movement to the walls, which likely pre-dated the start of the policy.
From the evidence Ive seen, it appears that Aviva hasnt been able to distinguish 
between the damage to the walls caused by an insured event (the recent subsidence 
damage) and the damage caused by an uninsured event (the historic problems). The 
subsidence damage cant be fixed unless the pre-existing damage to the walls is also put 
right at the same time.
The usual approach of this service in these circumstances is for the insurer to cover all 
the damage, and so I think that would be the fairest approach here.
Therefore, to put things right, I think Aviva should increase the settlement offer to include 
the total cost of putting right the damage to the external walls.
The policy says:
We can choose to settle your claim by
Replacing
Reinstating
Repairing
Payment
If we can repair or replace property but agree to make a cash or voucher settlement 
we will only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it.
Aviva didnt want to carry out repairs, and so decided to cash settle. As Aviva wasnt able 
to repair the damage and chose to make a cash settlement, that means it should pay the 
amount it would cost Mrs B to have the work done.
I understand that Mrs B has now started repair work, and so she may wish to let Aviva 
know how much she has been quoted. To be clear, Aviva is only obliged to cover the cost 
of the subsidence damage identified to the main house (unless Mrs B can show that there 
was damage to the house caused by subsidence that wasnt taken into account in Avivas 
schedule of work), and the cost to rectify the damage to the external walls.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make.
Aviva said that its schedule allows for the repairs to the three affected walls. It thought it 
should try and reach a further cash settlement for the repairs to those walls, but not 
complete wall rebuilds  it didnt think that would be fair when the subsidence element 
hadnt caused all the problems with the walls.
Mrs B responded to make the following points:
She is currently in the process of renovating the house, but has encountered 
additional problems which have led to increased costs related to the decor. 
She thinks the schedule of work needs to be revisited, as damage to the front right 
corner has become more onerous due to ongoing movement.
She thinks the cracking above the front door is attributable to the movement of the 
side wall.
The builder has provided her with details of the further work needed to rectify the 
damage - including taking down and rebuilding part of the affected gable wall, 
taking down and rebuilding the front boundary wall, and remediate and strengthen 
the front wall. Mrs B has also referred to other work the builder thinks is necessary 
which affects the main house.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva says that its willing to reconsider the cash settlement in respect of the external walls, 
but it doesnt think it should cover the cost of the walls being completely rebuilt. 
As I said in my provisional decision, since Aviva couldnt distinguish between the subsidence 
damage and the earlier (uninsured) damage, the usual approach of this service is to require 
the insurer to cover all the damage. I still think that would be fair here. 
Mrs B has helpfully confirmed what work her builder thinks is necessary to put right the 
damage to the walls. It seems all three walls dont need to be taken down and fully rebuilt, 
which Aviva was concerned about. But Aviva will need to cover the cost to Mrs B of having 
the repairs done to the walls. Mrs B should contact Aviva about this directly and, if it costs 
more than Aviva allowed for in its settlement, Aviva should pay the additional amount. 
Mrs B thinks the schedule of work needs to be revisited, as she thinks some damage has 
become more onerous due to ongoing movement. However, my understanding is that Aviva 
had established that the movement in the property had stopped and the schedule of works was drawn up after that. If Mrs B thinks theres been new movement, she should contact 
Aviva about this so that it can carry out an assessment. 
Mrs B has also said she thinks the cracking above her front door is attributable to the 
movement of the side wall. However, I see that Aviva accepted this was subsidence damage 
and took this into account in the schedule of works.
Although Mrs B has said additional problems have been encountered in the main house 
which have led to increased costs, she hasnt provided any evidence that the additional 
problems were caused by subsidence. 
If Mrs B obtains supporting evidence to show that Avivas original schedule of work didnt 
include all the repairs needed due to subsidence damage, she should submit this to Aviva to 
consider. Otherwise, in respect of the main house, Aviva would only need to pay the cost to 
Mrs B of putting right the subsidence damage as allowed for in the original schedule of 
works.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to increase 
its cash settlement offer so that this covers the cost to Mrs B of putting right the subsidence 
damage to the main house based on the schedule of works, and the cost to put right all the 
damage to the external walls.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman