DRN-2758967
The complaint
Mr G complained his claim from a recent incident was unfairly recorded against him by 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) under his motor policy and hes not happy 
with the service he received.
What happened
Mr G was involved in a road traffic accident. He said he wasnt at fault. He said the accident 
was the fault of the third party. Mr G said Admiral told him it wouldnt accept liability for the 
accident on his behalf.
Later, Mr G arranged a policy with a different insurer and was informed that Admiral had 
recorded a fault against him for the accident on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
Mr G said is unhappy he wasnt informed in advance of Admirals intention to do this. 
Mr G said an independent report of the accident provides evidence of why he wasnt at fault 
for the accident. Mr G said Admiral ignored the report and manipulated its details to make 
him appear liable. He said hes spent a lot of time talking to Admiral to try and correct its 
view of what happened. He said he felt intimidated by the staff at Admiral who he said 
encouraged him to accept liability.
Admiral said When an incident is reported to us, our agents read from a script authorised by 
the Financial Conduct Authority which advises we may share your information with other 
companies. It is not our business process to explain to very customer when registering an 
incident, the incident will be recorded on the CUE, as this is a legal obligation we have as an 
insurance company. Admiral also said, it didnt think it would be able to defend Mr Gs case 
based on the evidence available. Admiral apologised to Mr G that he felt intimidated but 
explained that it thought it had acted appropriately.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the independent report did 
demonstrate it was likely Mr G was partly at fault for the accident and Admiral had explained 
to Mr G that settling his claim on a 50/50 basis was his best outcome. As Admiral had a legal 
obligation to record this outcome, she didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong. She 
didnt see any evidence of poor service. Mr G disagreed, so the case has been 
 to an ombudsman.
I wrote informally to Mr G and Admiral on 7 June 2021 and 15 June 2021 to share my 
provisional thinking. 
I considered the investigators view and Mr Gs response to it. I agreed with what the 
investigator said in their view, which Ill briefly summarise:
Insurers have a duty to maintain accurate records, so I think its reasonable for 
Admiral to update CUE for what has happened in the accident.
Admiral instructed an independent investigator to make a report from the accident, 
which including obtaining a statement from Mr G. Its claims department weighed up 
the evidence and considered the costs of taking the claim to court. It took advice from 
its solicitors who didnt believe Mr G / Admiral had a strong case for court. Admiral 
concluded that settling the claim on a 50/50 basis with the third-party insurer was the 
best outcome it could hope for. I think Admiral has followed a reasonable process to 
assess what happened.
Having reviewed the independent report and with Admiral taking advice from its 
solicitor, I dont think Admiral has been unreasonable or unfair to Mr G in looking to 
settle the claim on a 50/50 basis.
Mr G said he felt intimidated to accept liability. However, I havent found any 
evidence to support this or to suggest that Mr G hasnt received a reasonable service 
from Admiral.
However, I think there was one point that hadnt been considered by our investigator. Mr G 
said hes not frustrated that his claim was recorded as fault, but he does feel his
complaint has been misunderstood. He said the core of my complaint is that Admiral failed 
to inform [him] of key facts and information of how the claim has been settled and the basis 
of that settlement.
Admiral confirmed that the claim was settled on a without prejudice fault basis and it has 
provided evidence that it sent a letter to Mr G on 10 December 2019 which shows it informed 
him we will proceed to make an offer to settle the third-party claim.
I said, I think Mr G should have reasonably been aware of this. My provisional decision was 
that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do anymore.
Admiral accepted my provisional decision.
Mr G rejected my provisional decision and responded with some points. I have included 
those points that are relevant or new to my thinking with this decision.
Mr G said the evidence provided by Admiral shows it will make an offer to settle the third
party claim strictly without prejudice so as not to prejudice my (Mr G) position. He said he 
thinks "making an offer to settle the third party claim strictly without prejudice" means without 
formally accepting liability and without admitting liability as 'At Fault'.
Mr G said he didnt receive the final copy of the Covent Bridge Report that Admiral
used to determine liability.
Mr G said he has spent 190 hours dealing with this complaint and has asked for his time to 
be compensated.
Mr G said he has suffered a financial loss for changing to at fault during his policy term as 
opposed to being able to do this in a competitive market beforehand. Mr G has estimated 
this loss at £179.45.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Admiral has provided a recorded call from 25 November 2019 that was made between Mr G 
and itself, which was around two weeks before it sent the letter to Mr G on 10 December 
2019.
I have listened to the phone call and the following points were made.
Mr G was told by Admiral that the independent report wont be sent to a third-party, 
but the report is to help Admiral establish their liability position and upon reviewing 
report Admiral said it cant prove that third party wasnt already on the roundabout.
Admiral said it needs to make an offer for this claim and it wants to put forward 50/50 
liability. It said if it was to go before a judge, the judge would likely say 50/50 too, as 
theres no evidence to support either partys version of events. 
Mr G said the claim should go to court anyway and have the third party offer 50/50. 
Agent explains it would be better off putting forward the offer rather than to go to 
court. The agent explained the cost implications of this and why it benefits them to 
put forward the offer. Mr G asks questions about this which the agent answers and 
Mr G says he understands the points made.
Mr G asks how liability will be recorded and the agent explains that the no claims 
bonus (NCB) would be affected if 50/50 liability is accepted, but since he has 
protected NCB it will only be a strike against this, but it wont be reduced. 
Agent asks if Mr G is agreeing to Admiral making a 50/50 offer. Mr G says hes 
happy for it to be taken to court. Agent explains that under the terms and conditions 
Admiral can deal with claim as they feel fit and are able to make the offer regardless. 
Mr G says he understands.
Mr G asks about his personal injury claim if 50/50 offer is made, agent advises that 
itll be paid by third-party insurer 
Mr G says he understands all the points made and once he has appointed a solicitor 
he will get back to business on whether he agrees to them making a 50/50 offer  
Agent says ultimately if Admiral feel that 50/50 is best then they can still put this 
forward but if he has his own solicitor claim it wont prejudice that at all and explains 
what this mean and asks if Mr G understands. He says he does. He says he 
understands how these things work.
Having considered Mr Gs points and reviewed the evidence available, I am persuaded that 
Mr G was aware of Admirals intention to offer 50/50 liability for the accident and this was 
done on a without prejudice basis, so not to impact on Mr Gs separate personal injury claim. 
I think its reasonable that Mr G shouldve been aware of this. Therefore, Im not changing 
my decision, I dont uphold this complaint and Admiral dont need to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman