DRN-2099603
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds settlement of a claim 
on his motorbike insurance policy. 
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Mr C first insured his bike with Advantage online in May 2018. He renewed his policy the 
following year. In December 2019, the bike was stolen. Mr C reported the theft to the police 
and claimed on his policy.
When Advantage settled Mr Cs claim it said that, because he hadn't told it about an earlier 
theft when he took out his policy, it wouldn't pay his full claim but would limit its settlement to 
84% of its full value. 
Mr C didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She felt that Advantage dealt with Mr C reasonably. As Mr C didn't agree, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
When Advantage was looking into Mr Cs claim it found record of another incident, in 2017, 
when Mr Cs bike had been stolen and recovered. And, as he got his bike back, his insurer 
at the time didn't pay a claim for the theft. Instead it recorded the incident on a shared 
insurance database as notification only. That meant that an incident that could give rise to 
a claim had happened but no claim was settled. 
When Mr C applied for his policy online Advantages website said Mr C needed to tell it 
about:
all incidents, claims or damage, including fire, theft, glass end malicious damage, in 
any motor vehicle (Car, Motorbike or Van). Regardless of who was to blame or 
whether a claim was made.
And given that Advantage wanted to know about all incidents regardless of whether or not a 
claim had been made, that would include the incident in 2017 when Mr Cs bike was stolen 
and recovered. But Mr C didn't tell Advantage about that incident. 
I can understand that, from Mr Cs perspective, as his insurers didn't pay out on a claim in 
2017 that incident shouldnt affect his insurance history. So it wasn't something he thought 
he needed to tell Advantage about. But when insurers are deciding whether or not to offer a 
consumer a policy, and if so how much to charge for it, they assess how likely that consumer 
is to make a claim and how much they might have to pay out for that. And each insurer will 
go about that risk assessment in their own way. Thats something theyre allowed to do and, 
as long as its something they apply consistently to consumers with the same circumstances, 
this isn't something we would interfere with. 
Its apparent that one factor Admiral includes within its assessment of risk is whether or not a 
consumer has suffered a previous theft, even if that didn't lead to an insurer paying a claim. 
That might not be something that Mr C agrees with, and it's not the approach of all insurers, 
but as this is something Advantage will apply consistently to all its policyholders I don't find 
that approach unfair. 
So, if Mr C had told Advantage about the 2017 theft when he took out the policy it would 
have considered him to be a higher risk and charged a higher premium. But he didn't tell it 
about the incident. I think he should have done so. His mistake in not doing so is known in 
the insurance industry as a misrepresentation. And theres specific law - the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) - which sets out what 
insurers may do when a consumers made a misrepresentation. And that says that where 
but for that misrepresentation an insurer would have offered the policy, but charged a higher 
premium, then the insurer may settle any claim on a proportionate basis. By that I mean it 
can work out what percentage of the correct premium the policyholder had actually paid 
compared to what they should have paid and limit its settlement of any claim to that 
percentage. 
In this case Mr C paid £74.88 for his policy. But, if hed told Advantage about the previous 
theft it would have charged him £89.86. In other word he paid around 84% of the correct 
premium. So, in line with CIDRA, Advantage paid Mr C 84% of his full claim value.
Im aware Mr C is concerned that Admiral hasnt explained to him how it calculated the 
premiums. We asked Advantage to show us how its calculations had changed before and 
after it included the 2017 incident. Advantage has provided us with some information to 
show how the premium increased. That information is commercially sensitive. Thats 
because the methods insurers use to assess risks and the premiums they charge to cover 
those risks will alter to respond to the changing insurance market. As such, insurers do not 
want their competitors getting insight into their pricing practices and risk assessments 
because that might result in them losing a competitive edge. So I can't share those 
calculations with Mr C. But having carefully considered them I'm satisfied that Advantage 
calculated the change in Mr Cs premium fairly. So Im equally satisfied it calculated the 
proportion of the claim settlement fairly.
Mr C also said his no claims discount (NCD) was protected; so a previous claim or incident 
shouldnt have affected his premium calculation. But hes mistaken. It might help if I explain 
how insurers apply an NCD. An NCD - whether protected or not - isn't a guarantee that a 
premium won't increase. Thats because an NCD as well as being a risk rating factor, is also 
generally a percentage discount an insurer applies after it's calculated the full premium. It 
will then reduce that full premium by the percentage discount that a policyholders NCD 
entitles them to. 
To give an example, an insurer might calculate a drivers risk that requires a premium of 
£100. But if that driver has an NCD attracting a 20% discount the insurer would reduce the 
premium by 20% and charge the customer £80. If the same insurer recalculated the risk 
because of a notification only incident which  for arguments sake - means that the full 
premium is £110. It would apply the NCD discount of 20% to that figure and charge the customer £88. So the NCD remains unaffected by the notification only incident. But the 
premium can still go up.
It follows that I think Advantage settled Mr Cs claim for his stolen bike fairly. So I'm not 
going to instruct it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman