DRN-3766285
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background 
Mr B bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2017. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr B alleges that the installer 
misled Mr B into believing that the system would be self-funding.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr B signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Mr B says he was led to believe. So, the adjudicator did 
not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr B disagreed. He said (through the CMC) that the sale was conducted based on verbal 
representations and he did not sign or see the document relied on by our adjudicator. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ikano has provided a copy of an estimated returns document which set out the expected 
annual benefits the system will likely produce. This document has been signed by Mr B. I 
understand Mr B says he didnt sign this document and doesnt recall seeing it. The CMC 
has also pointed out that the document was signed 2 weeks after the original sale. 
The claim this document has been fraudulently produced by the installer is a serious 
allegation - and one we would not agree with without substantial evidence. Having reviewed 
it and other documents Mr B has signed, Im satisfied Mr B signed this document.  
And while it was signed by Mr B two weeks after the sale, I think its unlikely Mr B would have 
agreed to such a significant purchase without having discussed the likely benefits he will 
receive from the system. And if these figures were largely different to what he discussed on 
the day of the sale, I would have expected him to have questioned why they were so 
different, and Ive seen no evidence that he did. This suggests these figures likely didnt 
contradict his understanding at the time of sale. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the estimated returns document is reliable evidence of the likely 
benefits Mr B was advised about on the day of the sale so Ive taken it into account when 
considering whether Mr B was told that the system would be self-funding. 
The document shows that the estimated annal benefits of the system were between £257.53 
and £347.86.
These figures are set out clearly directly above where Mr B signed. So, I think its likely that 
he saw them and these figures would have been discussed on the day of the sale. 
I also think the installer made it clear that the system cost £6,395 and that Mr B took out a 
10-year loan to pay for it. I dont think its likely Mr B would have agreed to buy the system 
without knowing the cost  and similarly I think its unlikely he signed a loan agreement 
without knowing the term of the loan. 
To me, its apparent that to repay a loan for £6,395 over 10 years, Mr B would be required to 
repay at least £639.50 annually. And of course, with interest (which was set out in the loan 
agreement), it would likely be significantly more than that. I also think its clear that a benefit 
amount of £347.86  would not be sufficient to cover the minimum annual cost of the loan. 
I have to bear in mind that it doesnt look like Mr B was given an array of documents with 
facts and figures for him to wade through. The estimated returns are set out on one page 
and his credit agreement is on another page. So, I think that is a good reflection of the 
discussions he had with the installer and information he was given on the day of the sale. 
If Mr B had been told the system would be self-funding, I would have expected him to have 
questioned how the shortfall would have been made up and Ive seen no evidence that he 
did. So, I think that suggests that the documents most likely did not contradict Mr Bs 
understanding, at that time. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Bs testimony, I find the documents set out above to be 
more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. On 
balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that 
would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman
