DRN-1326578
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
following a chargeback claim she raised. She is unhappy that the claim was only accepted in 
part and would like the balance of the money she paid to the merchant returned to her.
What happened
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mrs R and Barclays so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However in summary it is this; 
In January 2019 Mrs R bought goods valued at £3,600 on her card. She disputed the 
transaction stating there were items missing from her order and that the goods she had 
received were damaged. The merchant would not give her a full refund and so she raised a 
chargeback claim with Barclays who temporarily refunded the purchase price of £3,600. 
They also raised the chargeback dispute with Visa. 
When Visa looked into the dispute the merchant agreed a refund of £855 for the missing 
goods but Visa decided in favour of the merchant on the rest of the dispute. As a result 
Barclays debited Mrs Rs account with the balance due to the merchant. Mrs R was unhappy 
with that and complained to Barclays, but they rejected her complaint stating that they dealt 
with her chargeback request properly and they had done nothing wrong. 
Mrs R was unhappy with Barclayss response and so brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it but didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly. As Mrs R didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress where it is appropriate. Im 
not the industry regulator, and I dont have power to make rules for financial businesses, 
direct that they change their processes, or punish them. That is for the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
I will consider whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs R. I aim 
to address all relevant points with a view to reaching a fair and reasonable decision based 
on the evidence before me. I take into account both sides views.  But, where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. When Mrs R contacted Barclays with her concerns over her transaction, they raised a 
chargeback claim for her. This is a process by which some disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants under the relevant card scheme. The chargeback rules arent 
set by Barclays. Those rules are set by the card provider, whose symbol is on the card. In 
this case it is Visa. That card provider has an agreement with lots of card issuers as to how 
its cards are used. The agreement also covers when a card issuer can try to make a 
chargeback for its customers, to attempt to get the money spent on a card back. Those rules 
are quite strict, and Barclays cant change them. Making a chargeback request just means a 
card issuer will ask for the money back. It doesnt mean it will get it. 
I see here that Barclays failed to allow 15 working days to elapse before they made the 
chargeback request, but that had no bearing on the ultimate decision Visa took. Barclays 
arent required to ask the scheme provider for a transaction to be reversed, but they can do 
so if they think its likely to succeed. We generally we say its good practice for a card 
provider it to try one if theres a reasonable prospect of success. Equally, if they think the 
chargeback is likely to be rejected by the scheme provider then they dont have to raise it. 
So I can see that Barclays acted fairly by actually raising the dispute with Visa.
Having raised the dispute with Visa on Mrs Rs the fact that Visas decision went against Mrs 
R is very unfortunate but that is not something Barclays had any influence over. So I cant 
say they have done anything wrong.
I have noted that Barclays made a good will payment to Mrs R for their error in raising the 
chargeback claim with Visa too early. Fortunately raising the dispute as they did had no 
bearing on Visa's decision. So taking that into account, I think that the goodwill payment to 
Mrs R was fair and very reasonable, and as such I dont require Barclays to do anything 
else.
So overall, although Mrs R will probably be disappointed with my decision, I have come to 
the same conclusion as the investigator. I cant say Barclays have acted unfairly in the way it 
dealt with her chargeback request and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman