DRN-3447912
The complaint
Mr U complains U K Insurance Limited unfairly refused to settle part of his home 
insurance claim. 
Mr Us been represented for this complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the actions of the 
representative as being those of Mr U. 
What happened
In January 2017 Mr Us home was broken into. He claimed on his UKI home insurance 
policy. The insurer covered some repairs to damage to Mr Us home. Other items claimed 
for, cash and jewellery, werent settled. UKI closed the claim due to a lack of contact from 
Mr U.  
In 2021 the claim was reopened after Mr U got back in touch with UKI. It asked him for 
further evidence to substantiate the cash and jewellery loss. In July 2021 it wrote to inform 
him it wasnt satisfied with what he had provided. It said it had concerns over the lack of 
proof of loss and Mr Us cooperation with its requests for further information. So it said it 
would not be settling the outstanding items.
Mr U complained about UKIs decision. He was unhappy about its requests that he provide 
more to substantiate the loss. He felt hed provided enough already. In August 2021 UKI 
responded. It said its requests for further proof of ownership was reasonable and in line with 
the terms of Mr Us policy. It said that, based on valuations provided by its jewellery supplier, 
Mr U didn't have sufficient cover in place. It didn't agree to settle the claims for any further 
items. Mr U wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He wants UKI to settle by covering the 
jewellery and cash claimed for.  
Our investigator felt UKI had acted fairly and reasonably. She said its position that Mr U 
hadnt done enough to validate the ownership, and loss, of the jewellery and cash was 
reasonable. So she didnt recommend it do anything differently. Mr U didnt accept that 
outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require UKI to settle the claim or do anything differently. 
Mr U and UKI have provided a range of information and commentary for this complaint. As 
this is an informal service, I haven't addressed all of it here. Instead Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the key issues and evidence. But I would like to reassure them that Ive 
considered everything provided. 
Mr Us policy terms require him, in the event of a claim, to provide UKI with any relevant 
information and evidence that it asks for, including proof of ownership or value of the lost 
items. Mr U has asked if this term was in the original policy he took out many years ago. 
However even if it, or similar, wasnt it would still be reasonable for UKI to ask for proof of 
ownership and loss of items claimed for. Its a matter of common law. 
However, I might not consider it fair for an insurer to require proof of ownership for 
absolutely everything claimed for. Even extremely diligent policyholders are unlikely to be 
able to show this for every item they own. So Ive considered if, considering the evidence by 
Mr U has provided and the wider circumstances of the complaint, UKIs decision not to settle 
any of the jewellery or cash claimed for is fair and reasonable.   
UKIs been given inconsistent accounts of the value of the cash stolen  and why it was in 
the property. Initially it was £950, later it was £1,400. It was said to have been cash from 
Mr Us business. Then it was explained as money given to Mr U by a relative. A letter from 
the relative, providing confirmation, was promised. But as far as I can see this was never 
produced. Considering the inconsistencies and lack of confirmation of the source of the cash 
I cant say UKIs decision not to cover this part of the claim was unfair or unreasonable.    
Mr U provided descriptions of the 50 or so items of jewellery claimed for. That was enough to 
allow UKIs supplier to value each - about £47,000 in total. I accept many of these items 
were purchased or gifted many years ago. So I wouldnt expect receipts of proof of purchase 
to be provided for all, or even most. But unfortunately, Mr Us only shown two receipts. One 
of those isnt clearly linked to any one piece of jewellery. Its from a jeweller  but the product 
purchased is described on the receipt as item.   
As far as Ive seen Mr Us presented around 18 photos of the jewellery in use. These seem 
to show around 20 or so separate items. Again I wouldnt usually expect UKI to require 
photos of every single item. But in this case theres nothing to link the photos to the 
individual items claimed for. Ive invited Mr U several times to provide something explaining 
which photos correspond with individual items claimed for. If that was available, I might think 
it reasonable for UKI to settle part of the claim at least. But unfortunately, despite the 
requests, this hasnt been provided.  
So considering everything, including what Mr Us provided to substantiate the claim, his 
failure to provide further information when requested, his communication with UKI and its 
general concerns about the claim, I cant say its decision not to settle any of the jewellery or 
the cash was unfair or unrealisable.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require U K Insurance Limited to pay anything further 
to settle Mr Us claim or to do anything differently.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman