DRN-3888581
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with Monzo Bank Ltds account closure process. 
What happened
Mr J confirmed to Monzo via the in-app chat on 10 September 2022 that he wanted to close 
his account due to service issues. This was following a number of days of chat that started 
with Mr J querying the replacement card fee and then waiting to hear if he needed to leave 
£1 in his account as a shareholder. Monzo replied later that day asking Mr J to tap here to 
verify his identity, saying once he had done that he could close the account in the app, or it 
could do that for him. But by this time Mr J had messaged Monzo again saying he was 
deleting the app.
Mr J called Monzo two days later. He said he could not re-install the app as he no longer had 
a smartphone so Monzo explained he could email the identification verification that it needed 
to close his account, this should be a clear picture of himself, or a video, that also showed 
his ID. Mr J did not want to do this saying there must be many other ways it can verify his 
identity that do not involve apps or videos. Mr J asks for £25 compensation for the time this 
has taken and for his account to be closed.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Js complaint. She said Monzos terms allow it to charge 
for the replacement card. She found Monzo had offered Mr J two ways to close his account 
 either in-app or via email with an image and ID. This would be the same for all customers 
closing an account. She explained that not all internal processes would be documented in 
the terms and conditions. Overall, she concluded Monzo had acted fairly toward Mr J. 
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr J asked for an ombudsmans review. He said the charge 
for the replacement card was not part of his complaint  it was the catalyst for him deciding 
to close his account. He said the investigator gave contradictory information about the 
closure process and did not address the key point that closing his account in the app was 
not an option that was available to him. He says Monzos procedure for account closure is in 
complete contrast to its published terms and conditions  and it is reasonable that he should 
follow the terms rather than an unseen internal document. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Monzo had made it consistently clear in the in-app chat that Mr J could tap to verify 
his identity to start the account closure process. He opted to delete the app before doing 
this. I do note Monzos replies were not always timely, but it acknowledged this, and I find its 
intention was always to help. After Mr J explained he no longer had a smart phone and so 
needed another option, Monzo explained he could email with a photo or video clip of him 
holding proof of his identity. I think this is reasonable. And we would expect the bank to 
ensure the request for account closure was coming from the account holder. I accept Mr J 
did not like this option, but Monzo is a digital bank, and he was aware of this when he 
opened his account.
Mr J said in his response to the investigators assessment that we have not consider that the 
in-app closure was not an available option for him. But from the in-app chat history I have 
reviewed I cannot see that was the case. It only ceased being an option for him in the 
evening of 10 September when he opted to delete the app. Prior to that point, going as far 
back as 2019, Monzo had told Mr J to tap to verify if he wanted to start the process to close 
his account. In its submission to this service Monzo flagged that Mr J had another open 
complaint about access to the app ongoing but that has not been in the scope of this 
investigation. Mr J did not mention this on his complaint form and Monzo had not completed 
its investigation or issued a final response letter when he brought his complaint to our 
service.
Mr J made the point that Monzos account closure process is in complete contrast to the 
terms. But I disagree. Its section on Closing your account in the terms and conditions tells 
account holders that want to close their account to please get in touch with us. It doesnt set 
out what will happen then and I dont think its unreasonable that the terms dont set out the 
subsequent operational procedure in full.
It follows I have found no failings on the part of Monzo. Mr J wanted compensation for his 
wasted time and I acknowledge he has spent time on this issue, but I think there are steps 
he could have taken that would have reduced the inconvenience he has felt and so am not 
making any compensatory award. I also cannot order it to close his account as he 
requested. He would need to comply with its ID verification request.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman