DRN-3331115
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited have declined his claim for theft of his 
golf trolley and battery 
What happened
Mr D held a Golf Care insurance policy with Aviva to cover this golf equipment. 
On 20 July 2020 Mr Ds golf trolley was stolen. He had left it outside the rear entrance to the 
mens locker room at the golf club where he was a member. There were a number of trolleys 
left there. He went into the mens locker room to put away his clubs and then went to have 
lunch on the patio area which is next where the trolleys were left. When he went to collect 
his trolley after lunch, it had gone. 
Mr D made a claim under his policy which was declined. Aviva said that the trolley had been 
left unattended, which meant that it was not covered under the policy. 
Mr D was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ds complaint and he thought the claim had been 
fairly declined in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have to consider whether Aviva have decided the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision in declining the 
claim.  
Aviva have pointed to the exclusion in the policy schedule which was issued to Mr D. On 
page 14 of the policy it says:
What is not covered
7. Loss or theft of any Golf Equipment left unattended in the open other than in the course of 
Playing Golf. 
Playing Golf is defined in the policy as 
being physically engaged in a continuous round of golf or practice session at a recognised 
golfing Venue
I think that this exclusion is clear that there is no cover when equipment is left unattended, 
and so I have considered whether, in the circumstances that Mr D has described, the trolley 
can fairly be said to have been left unattended. 
Mr D says that he put his trolley by the rear mens locker room entrance door went inside the 
clubhouse to put away his clubs. He then sat on the patio to eat his lunch which he says was   
about 10 yards away from where he had left his trolley. 
I have seen the photographs that Mr D has kindly provided which show the rear entrance to 
the mens locker room, the spot where the trolley was parked, and the patio on which Mr D 
had his lunch.
 
Looking at these I can understand why Mr D feels frustrated by what has happened. He was 
in close proximity to his trolley whilst having his lunch and he was inside the grounds of his 
golf club, which he will have considered to be a safe place. 
However, I do think that in the circumstances described, the exclusion has been fairly 
applied. We dont know when exactly the trolley as taken. It could have been when Mr D  
was in the clubhouse putting his clubs away, or at any other time when he left the patio 
during the course of his lunch, at which times the trolley would clearly have been considered 
unattended. Although when he was seated, Mr D was only a short distance away, I dont 
think the trolley could be said to be being attended, as that implies some level of 
supervision or control over the item, and if it was being supervised Mr D would have noticed 
it being taken, or at least noticed that it had been taken before he went to collect it.  
     
So, whilst I appreciate Mr Ds position, I consider that it is reasonable for Aviva to treat the 
trolley as unattended for the purposes of this claim and I cant fairly say that Aviva have 
done anything wrong in declining the claim.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited do not need to 
do anything further 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman