DRN-3861113
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined the claim she made on 
her critical illness policy for loss of independent existence.
What happened
Ms S bought a life and critical illness policy from Aviva in 2001.  The policy was for a 20 year 
term, which expired on 1 August 2021.
In early 2018, Ms S was diagnosed with haemochromatosis.  The condition has prevented 
her from working since the summer of that year.  So, towards the end of 2019, she submitted 
a claim to Aviva under the critical illness element of her policy.
Haemochromatosis isnt a condition which is covered under the policy.  But there was cover 
for total permanent disablement (for policyholders under the age of 60) or loss of 
independent existence (after 60).  
Ms Ss claim was based on loss of independent existence.  The policy defines this as:
a permanent inability to perform independently three or more Activities of Daily 
Livingafter attaining age 60, with or without the use of mechanical equipment, special 
devices or other aids.  Confirmation must be received by a Consultant Physician and be 
supported by the Companys medical adviser.
There are six activities of daily living  transferring, continence, dressing, mobility, feeding 
and washing.
Ms S submitted a claim to Aviva in January 2020.  In January 2022, Aviva declined the 
claim, based on information from Ms Ss GP practice that she could carry out all the activities 
of daily living, albeit with some limitations.  This was supported by Avivas Chief Medical 
Officer (CMO).
Ms S appealed Avivas decision and complained theyd taken more than two years to reach 
it.  Aviva responded by reiterating why the claim wasnt accepted and settled.  They 
acknowledge they had taken a long time to deal with the claim, although several of the 
delays were outside their control.  They paid Ms S £250 compensation for delay.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and brought her complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Aviva didnt need to do any more to resolve it.  She 
noted that Ms Ss ability to undertake the activities of daily living would normally have been 
assessed in person.  That wasnt possible due to Covid 19 restrictions in place at various 
points during the claim.  But she said Avivas alternative assessment was fair and the claim 
was thoroughly considered.  
The investigator noted the claim had been delayed but noted this was largely due to the 
pandemic.  She thought £250 was a fair amount of compensation for the delays which had 
been within Avivas control.
Ms S didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint.  I know shell find this upsetting and 
Im sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive absolutely no doubt from everything Ive read that Ms S suffers considerable pain and 
lack of mobility on a daily basis.  And its obvious that makes life extremely difficult for her.  
But I can only say Aviva should do something differently in relation to the settlement of her 
claim if I think theyve made a mistake or not applied their policy terms consistently.
Critical illness policies generally provide cover in the event of the policyholder being 
diagnosed with one of the conditions listed in its terms.  Ms S acknowledges 
haemochromatosis isnt a listed condition so she cant make a claim on that basis.  Her claim 
is that the condition has led to her loss of independent existence.
Ive set out the relevant term above.  I think its clear from reading it that establishing loss of 
independent existence required Ms S to meet a specific test  that a doctor must say (and 
Avivas CMO should agree) that she couldnt do at least three of the six activities of daily 
living, without the support of another person, before the policy expired in August 2021.  
Im satisfied thats the test Aviva applied to Ms Ss claim.  Im aware that insurers usually 
appoint a practitioner to assess a claimants abilities at a face-to-face meeting in their home.  
But that wasnt possible in Ms Ss case, because of the restrictions on contact which were in 
place in 2020 and 2021 to combat the Covid 19 pandemic.  
In those circumstances, I cant say that was unfair.  And I agree with our investigator that the 
alternative used by Aviva  getting information from Ms Ss GP  was reasonable.
Ive considered the information provided by the GP.  They were asked to complete a form 
dealing with each of the six activities.  The GP has ticked the boxes to say Ms S can perform 
all six  although they have recorded that she does so with difficulty in five of the six.  
Im satisfied from this that Aviva based their decision on an assessment which showed Ms S 
didnt meet the criteria set out in the policy term.  Ms S has suggested that the medical 
evidence doesnt show the true situation as, although the report was sent by her practice, it 
wasnt completed by her regular GP.  
Ive thought about this.  But I can see that the information mirrors what the GP has recorded 
about Ms Ss difficulties.  So I cant reasonably say its inaccurate.  And, for that reason, I 
dont think Aviva need to do any more to resolve this part of her complaint.
Finally, Ive considered Ms Ss complaint about how long it took Aviva to come to its 
decision.  Two years is an undeniably long time.  And I think its fair Ms S is compensated for 
that.
But I have to take into account the fact that, at the time Ms S made her claim, Covid 19 
restrictions made it impossible for many aspects of life to continue as they usually did and 
delays were caused by, for example, trying to arrange assessments that could not then go 
ahead.  I cant hold Aviva responsible for that.Nor can I hold them responsible for delays which werent of their making.  For example, Ive 
noted it took some time for Ms Ss GP practice to provide information when it was requested.  
And that impacted on Avivas ability to progress the claim.
Having taken these factors into account, I think the £250 Aviva has paid Ms S is a fair 
amount of compensation for their own delays.  And that means I dont think they need to do 
any more to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint about Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman