DRN-4336989
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc acted irresponsibly when it provided him 
with a credit card and subsequent credit limit increases. 
Background
Mr D applied for a Capital One credit card in April 2017, and this was approved with an 
opening credit limit of £750. The limit was then increased in January 2019 to £1,750, then 
again in December 2019 to £2,750 with the final increase to £3,750. 
Mr D has said neither the initial card limit, nor any of the later increases were affordable to 
him. He believes that Capital One failed to run proportionate checks to ensure the lending 
was affordable and sustainable. Hes asked that it refund all of the interest and charges hes 
paid since the account was opened. 
Capital One has said that when Mr D applied for his card in 2017 it ran full checks and asked 
him to complete an income and expenditure form, as well as checking his existing debt 
levels and credit score. It has said it repeated these checks each time it offered a credit limit 
increase. In addition to this it has noted that in between each credit limit increase Mr D was 
maintaining his account well, making more than the minimum monthly repayments and had 
never missed a payment or had any late payment charges added to his account. So it says 
there was nothing to indicate the card or limit increases would not be affordable and it didnt 
uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with Capital Ones response Mr D brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint already. He found that the checks completed by 
Capital One were proportionate and there was no evidence provided by Mr D to show that 
the card, and the limit increase, were unaffordable. So, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint and so its been passed to me for consideration. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and so wont be 
upholding Mr Ds complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment, so Id like to explain 
why Ive reached the outcome I have. 
Mr D has said that the credit card was never affordable, and all of the credit limit increases 
were inappropriate. However, Ive not seen any evidence, such as bank statements or credit 
file information, to support this.
Capital One has said that in 2017 when the account was opened, Mr D was working full 
time, with an annual income of approximately £21,000. He had limited out goings as he was 
still living at home with his parents at the time and his credit file showed no indication of any 
financial stress such as missed payments or defaults. So, it seems more likely than not that 
the card, with a relatively low limit of £750, was affordable. Therefore, I cant say Capital One 
acted irresponsibly when it opened the account for Mr D at this time. 
In January 2019 Mr D was offered a credit limit increase to £1,750 by Capital One. At this 
stage his income had increased to £22,000 per year and his combined existing debt was 
approximately £8,850. The account had been well maintained over the previous year and a 
half with no missed payments and Mr D was repaying more than the minimum repayment 
most months. Therefore, it appeared that the increase would be affordable and sustainable 
for Mr D. Based on this, and without any evidence to contradict Capital Ones assertions at 
that time, I agree the limit increase appeared to be affordable and so I dont think it was 
inappropriate for Capital One to offer the credit limit at this time. 
In December 2019 Capital One again contacted Mr D offering a second credit limit increase, 
this time to £2,750. Again, it has provided the information it relied on at the time to show the 
limit increase was affordable. While Mr Ds income remained the same his over all 
indebtedness had decreased leaving him with more disposable income than hed had 
previously. His account was still well maintained, and he was paying over the minimum 
amount due on a regular basis. So, I dont think there was anything on Mr Ds credit file or 
account history that indicated the increase may be problematic or unsustainable. So I dont 
think Capital One acted irresponsibly when it offered it to Mr D. 
The final increase happened in July 2022, over 18 months after the second limit increase. 
Again, Capital One offered the increase to Mr D. By this time Mr Ds income had increased 
slightly to £23,000 but his over all indebtedness had continued to decrease, which indicated 
he was managing his finances well at this time. There was no history of late payments or 
arrears on this account or on his credit file. Mr D has told us he was reliant on high-cost 
credit at this time but theres no evidence to support this and there was nothing on how he 
was managing his account by July 2022 that wouldve suggested the final credit limit 
increase was unaffordable. So I dont think Capital One was wrong to offer it to him.  
Mr D has confirmed that he has since experienced financial difficulties and he believes 
Capital One has failed to offer his sufficient support during a difficult time. Ive reviewed his 
account history and while I can see that he contacted Capital One for support earlier this 
year, this seems to have been a short-term arrangement and it looks as though it provided 
support by suspending fees and charges for an agreed time. And without any supporting 
evidence that speaks to Mr Ds financial problems or detailed testimony explaining why the 
support offered wasnt sufficient, Im unable to conclude Capital One acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Capital One (Europe) 
plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman