DRN-4428782
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service he received from Volvo Car UK Limited trading as Care by 
Volvo Car UK Limited (VCUK) when he asked to end his car hire agreement early.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr L entered into a 60 month hire agreement for a car with VCUK. It was a 
flexible agreement meaning he could end it early by given a required notice period. The 
monthly payments (subscriptions) were around £750. 
In March 2022, Mr L told VCUK he intended to end the agreement early as he had ordered 
another car. He gave VCUK the required three month notice period meaning the agreement 
would end in June 2022. However as there were delays for the delivery of the new car, he 
asked to extend the date of the cars return in June and July 2022 which VCUK agreed to. 
At the start of September 2022, Mr L said he intended to return the car at the end of the 
month. However VCUK said he needed to give the three month notice period. Meaning the 
car had to be returned by December 2022 and he was required to pay the monthly 
subscriptions up to that point. Mr L complained, stating he had already given the relevant 
notice period in March 2022. VCUK maintained their position. 
As VCUK said the three month notice period started from September 2022, Mr L remained in 
possession of the car. However around October 2022, a fault was found. There was a leak 
causing water to come inside the car so it was brought to a garage for repair. Mr L made 
VCUK aware of this and asked what this meant for returning the car. Following some back 
and forth, the car was eventually returned in December 2022. Mr L made a further complaint 
about this and included the overall level of customer service he had received from VCUK.
When the agreement came to an end, VCUK said there was an outstanding balance of over 
£2,600 which Mr L needed to pay. That amount included charges for excess mileage and 
wear and tear to the car. Mr L accepted the charges for the latter but he said it wasnt fair he 
was required to pay a further three months subscriptions (the notice period). He said this 
should be refunded and VCUK should also reimburse him for the cars insurance he had to 
pay during that time and to consider the trouble and upset they had caused him. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. She felt VCUK had acted fairly.
Mr L disagreed and maintained his stance. In response, VCUK said to bring matters to a 
resolution and as a gesture of goodwill, they would agree to remove two months of monthly 
subscriptions from the outstanding balance. Meaning he had around £1,100 left to pay. Mr L 
didnt believe this was enough to put things right. 
In October 2023, I issued my provisional decision and said I find Volvo has done enough to 
put things right, I said:
Notice to end the agreement early
As a starting point, I reviewed the terms and conditions. It makes it clear to end the 
agreement early, consumers must give three months notice to VCUK. Mr L doesnt dispute 
this, hes aware of the same. 
Both parties accept in March 2022, Mr L provided such notice. He told them the reason for 
this was he had ordered another car. He was told the car needed to be returned by June 
2022 and the agreement would come to an end. Based on VCUKs call notes, I can see in 
June 2022 Mr L contacted them to explain the delivery of his new car had been delayed and 
he asked to extend the cars return date by a month which VCUK agreed to. A further 
request was made in July 2022 and again accepted. I find VCUK acted fairly given the 
situation. However in August 2022, when Mr L cancelled the cars return, VCUK said he 
would need to give three months notice if he still intended to end the agreement early. In 
September 2022, Mr L told them he intended to return the car by the end of the month and 
VCUK reiterated he needed to give three months notice.
Mr L has explained his shock and frustration at being told the same and I can understand 
why. Hes said following his two requests for one month extensions to return the car, at no 
point did VCUK make it clear to him that he would have to give the three month notice period 
again. Based on the evidence presented to me, Im inclined to agree. There is no evidence 
VCUK made this clear to him in June and July 2022. 
As far as Mr L was concerned, he had provided the three month notice period in March 2022 
but that had been extended as agreed with VCUK so he saw no need to give it again. Given 
the circumstances and the lack of clarity from VCUK I can see why Mr L would think this 
way.
The terms of the agreement doesnt make any reference to this situation. However Ive 
thought about the likely intention behind the required notice period. To my mind, its to put 
VCUK on notice that the consumer intends to end the agreement early. In this case, Im 
satisfied thats what happened. It was made very clear to VCUK that is what Mr L intended to 
do. He had told them he wanted the agreement to come to an end but he was just waiting for 
his new car to be delivered. From the contact notes, its evident he was keeping VCUK up to 
date with the situation. By VCUKs own admission, they had agreed to extend the return of 
the car twice so its unclear why they decided to take a different approach in September 
2022.
Based on what had happened up to that point, I dont believe VCUK acted fairly by saying Mr 
L had to give another three months. I find it wouldve been reasonable for VCUK to accept 
Mr Ls request to return the car at the end of September 2022 and end the agreement. After 
all, he was giving around 28 days notice which I consider to be fair. Had VCUK accepted 
this, the car wouldve been returned around the end of September and the agreement 
wouldve ended as intended by Mr L. 
The return of the car
Mr L said because VCUK insisted he give the three months notice period again in 
September 2022 (ending in December 2022), it meant he had the car longer than he 
needed. As a result, he said he had to insure it for that time period and wants VCUK to 
reimburse him for the same. 
However having read some of the correspondence VCUK sent to Mr L, I can see they told 
him he could return the car sooner than December 2022 but he would remain liable to pay 
the monthly subscriptions up to then. From my understanding, Mr L wasnt inclined to do so 
as he wouldve been paying for a car that he had no use of. While I understand Mr Ls 
sentiment, that was his decision to make, I cant hold VCUK responsible for that. As Mr L had the option of returning the car earlier (meaning no insurance costs wouldve been 
incurred for three months), I wont be asking VCUK to reimburse him for the cost of the 
insurance. 
This meant the car remained in Mr Ls possession. During this time, I understand it 
developed a fault meaning it had been returned to the garage for repair. Its worth pointing 
out there is insufficient evidence to show the fault was caused by Mr L. The comments of the 
repair garage indicate they believed it may have been a manufacturing fault. 
I can see Mr L made VCUK aware of the car being in the garage for repair and he made 
attempts to ask them how that would impact the return of the car as he was required to do so 
by the start of December 2022. However I cant see he ever got a clear or sufficient 
response from VCUK so I can understand why he was getting increasingly frustrated. His 
questions were fair and reasonable given the situation. Despite VCUK being made aware of 
the car being in the garage, at one point they asked him to confirm the date the car would be 
returned and said if he didnt respond within five days, he may be required to serve another 
three months notice. I dont find VCUK acted reasonably here as Mr L had no idea when the 
car would be fixed. 
Mr L has told our service while the car was in for repair, he suggested to VCUK that they 
simply end the agreement as it was no longer in his possession. According to him, VCUK 
insisted he take the courtesy car despite him saying he didnt need it because his new car 
had already been delivered. While I accept Mr Ls version of events, I dont find his actions 
support that. I say this because its clear he accepted the courtesy car and its later 
replacement. He didnt have to accept the courtesy car if he didnt need it, he couldve simply 
declined it and not driven it away. So Ive taken this into account when looking at this 
complaint- he was given a courtesy car and it would appear he made use of it. 
 
Customer service 
Mr L says overall he received a poor level of service from VCUK. This includes his requests 
for management to call him not being fulfilled and being given inadequate responses when 
he asked about returning the car while it was in the garage. Given Mr Ls strength of feeling 
about what happened, I can understand why he wanted to speak to a manager however I 
must stress, this isnt an absolute right. When it was clear he was unhappy with what was 
happening, a complaint was raised and looked into by the relevant team which was a fair 
course of action. I dont find VCUK was obliged to arrange for a manager to call Mr L but I 
can appreciate his frustration being given the impression that would happen.
Based on the extent of communication to VCUK, its clear this situation was causing Mr L 
upset and worry. He was seeking support and assistance from VCUK about the car but their 
responses werent particularly clear nor forthcoming. Overall, I find VCUKs level of service 
couldve been better. 
Summary 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr L gave his three month notice period in
 March 2022 and VCUK agreed to extend it on at least two occasions. I dont find VCUK 
treated him fairly by saying he had to re-serve the three month notice in September 2022. In 
my opinion, it wouldve been reasonable to allow him to return the car and end the 
agreement at the end of September 2022 as he had requested. However as that didnt 
happen, he remained in possession of the car and a courtesy car which he had the benefit of 
using. To resolve matters, VCUK has already agreed to refund two monthly subscriptions and 
based on what has happened, I consider that to be fair. Had they not made this offer, I 
wouldve said they needed to have done something to put things right. I know Mr L wants the 
return of three months subscriptions and the reimbursement of the insurance. But given his 
continued use of the car (including the courtesy car) and the fact he was initially given the 
option to return the car sooner but chose not to do so, Im not minded to say VCUK needs to 
refund all of these costs.  
Response to the provisional decision
Volvo accepted the provisional findings. Mr L disagreed and maintained his position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ls disappointment by my findings. I would like to assure him that Ive 
thought carefully about his further response. However having done so, I dont consider he 
has provided any new information that I havent already taken into account so I dont believe 
its necessary to provide any further comment. 
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Volvo Car UK Limited has already made an offer to settle the complaint (as outlined above) 
which I find is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Volvo Car UK Limited trading as Care by Volvo UK should remove 
two months subscriptions from the outstanding balance owed to them by Mr L under this hire 
agreement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman