DRN-1751388
 
The complaint
 Miss P says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss P bought the policy in 1999 in connection with a store card.
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 16 March 2020. I said I didn't intend to 
uphold the complaint, and I've summarised my provisional findings below:
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Miss P so it didn't have to check if it was suitable 
for her. So it didn't have to ask about her circumstances, or whether she had any 
medical conditions that might've affected her ability to claim on the policy.
I said it was possible the information AXA gave Miss P about the PPI wasn't as clear 
as it should've been. I thought it was unlikely AXA pointed out to Miss P that she 
might not be covered by the policy if she was off work sick because of a medical 
condition she suffers from. But Miss P had said her condition is controlled through 
medication, and that she hadn't had to take long periods of time off work because of 
the condition. So even if AXA had pointed out the policy exclusion that affected Miss 
P, I didn't think I could safely say she would've made a different decision about 
buying the policy. Given the nature of her condition and the way that it's managed, on 
balance I thought Miss P would've considered the likelihood of her having to take 
time off work because of her condition to be low. So I thought it was likely that she 
still would've bought the policy. I didn't think better information about the policy and 
its exclusions would've stopped Miss P buying it.
Miss P's store card application form was completed to show that she wanted the PPI. 
Card protection was also available on the form, but Miss P hadn't selected that. So I 
thought Miss P would've realised she had a choice about buying the PPI
 
Miss P said she had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision.
AXA didn't make any further comments either. 
 
 
 
 
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I've taken this into account in deciding Miss P's case.
In the absence of any further comments or evidence from the parties, I see no reason to 
depart from the position set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman