DRN-3437607
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim
they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs P took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker.
The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. In December 2019, Mr and Mrs P booked
flights to a country Ill call A. They were due to travel on 16 March 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a
pandemic. On 15 March 2020, As government announced that all incoming visitors would
need to quarantine for 14 days. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth &
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the FCO) advised UK nationals against all but
essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad
to return to the UK.
Mr and Mrs P say that on 14 March 2020, they developed symptoms of a cough and a high
temperature. They say they followed NHS 111 online guidance to self-isolate at home and to
only seek medical attention if they became seriously unwell. On 15 March 2020, they called
their travel agent to cancel their flights. As their flight costs were non-refundable, Mr and Mrs
P made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. It said that before it would settle a
cancellation claim, a policyholder needed to provide medical evidence that it had been
medically necessary for them to cancel their trip  such as a medical certificate.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. She accepted that the
policy terms stated that a policyholder needed to provide Great Lakes with evidence to show
that itd been medically necessary to cancel their trip. She didnt think this was an unfair or
unusual requirement. But in this case, given the governments advice at the time was for 
people not to seek medical advice if they developed symptoms of Covid-19 unless they
became very unwell, she thought Mr and Mrs P had acted reasonably by following the
governments advice. This meant she didnt think Great Lakes had acted fairly when it turned
down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. She recommended that Great Lakes should accept and pay the
claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Ps policy and the available evidence to decide whether Great Lakes
treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs P found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was
purchased in August 2019, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt
have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs P are limited by the terms,
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy says that Great Lakes will pay for a policyholders unused travel and
accommodation costs if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific
insured events. The Cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ps policy, set out on page 15, says
Great Lakes will pay such costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 13 hours to the departure of
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for jury Service or being
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory
capacity).
you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under
current United Kingdom legislation.
your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary,
flooding or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours 
before the start of your trip, when the damage is in excess of 1,500.
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all but
essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or
hurricane.
Mr and Mrs P say that they cancelled their trip because they developed symptoms of Covid-
19 on 14 March 2020  two days before they were due to travel. Unforeseen illness is
something the cancellation section of the policy covers. As the investigator explained, the
policy also includes a special condition which states that a policyholder must provide medical
evidence to demonstrate the cancellation of a trip was medically necessary. Its a general
principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to show they
have a valid claim on their policy and most, if not all, travel insurance policies include similar
evidential requirements if a policyholder has cancelled a trip due to illness.
I accept that on 12 March 2020, the UK government announced that if people began to
suffer from Covid-19 symptoms, they should stay at home for seven days and rely on the
internet for information, rather than contacting 111. So in some circumstances, I might find
that it would be unfair for Great Lakes to require a medical certificate to support a
cancellation claim where I was satisfied the main reason for cancelling a trip was because a
policyholder had followed government advice.
However, in this case, I dont currently think the available evidence shows its most likely that
Mr and Mrs Ps main reason for cancelling the trip was because theyd developed symptoms
of Covid-19. I say that because Ive looked closely at the claim form and accompanying
evidence Mr and Mrs P sent to Great Lakes. I appreciate the claim form states that theyd
cancelled the holiday due to their symptoms. But the cancellation invoice from the travel
agent (which was dated 15 March 2020 and states it was resent to Mr and Mrs P on 8 April
2020) says:Please note this is a cancellation invoice due to the FCO advising against any travel for UK
passengers and the Government imposing self isolation for 14 days in the country you are
due to travel to.
Mr and Mrs P subsequently sent Great Lakes a letter in support of their claim. This letter
explained that theyd developed Covid-19 symptoms and followed government advice. But I
note the letter also said:
4. We were also advised by our travel agent thatAs Government was imposing 14 days
self isolation on all arriving visitors which would have been the length of our stay.
These are all the relevant details in relation to our claim; We followed all the available advice
as published by the government.
The travel agents letter suggests that one of the reasons Mr and Mrs P cancelled their trip
was because of As government imposing travel restrictions on 15 March 2020. It doesnt
suggest that Mr and Mrs P told the travel agent that they had to cancel their flights because
of illness. I find this letter persuasive evidence of what Mr and Mrs P likely discussed with
the travel agent at the time. And Mr and Mrs Ps letter also supports that the quarantine
requirements were at least a factor in their decision to cancel their trip.
The cancellation section of the policy sets out a list of specific events which Great Lakes
doesnt cover. One of these is:
prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of the
booked trip due to Government action.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Ps claim. But on
15 March 2020, its clear that self-isolation requirements came into force which would have
affected Mr and Mrs Ps whole trip. While I accept Mr and Mrs P say they cancelled their trip
due to their symptoms, I think the totality of evidence they provided to Great Lakes suggests
its at least as likely that the government restrictions in A were the main reason why Mr and
Mrs P decided to cancel their trip. Especially given that the claim form says the trip was
cancelled on 15 March 2020, rather than the day theyve said their symptoms began. So not
only is there no available medical evidence to show they have a valid claim on their policy, I
think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above would apply to the circumstances of their
claim anyway.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P paid an additional premium for the Travel Disruption Extension
cover, which does cover cancellation due to the FCDO advising against all but essential
travel abroad. However, in this case, the FCDO didnt advise against all but essential travel
abroad until 17 March 2020, two days after the cancellation invoice and the claim form
suggest the trip was cancelled. So I dont think Mr and Mrs Ps claim is covered under this
section of the policy either.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ps position, I currently find Great Lakes acted
fairly when it turned down their claim. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds
upon which I could direct Great Lakes to pay it.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider.
Great Lakes didnt respond by the deadline I gave.Mr and Mrs P disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary, they disputed that the 
restrictions imposed by As government played a major part in their decision to cancel their 
trip. They said theyd felt unwell for roughly a week before departure and theyd developed 
symptoms of Covid-19 approximately two days before departure. NHS 111 had advised Mr 
and Mrs P to stay at home and self-isolate and so there was no medical certification 
available. The 14 days of self-isolation had taken them up until 30 March 2020  by which 
time, travel restrictions and lockdown in the UK had been imposed and wouldve superseded 
the self-isolation guidance. Therefore, As government restrictions were irrelevant as they 
were already self-isolating at home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, Ive decided it was fair for Great 
Lakes to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs P have said about their symptoms and I 
accept its possible that they had to cancel their trip due to developing symptoms of Covid-
19. As Ive set out above, at the relevant time, government advice for people who developed 
symptoms of the virus was to self-isolate at home and not to seek medical attention.
But I need to consider all of the available evidence to decide what I think is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances. And in this case, Ive placed significant weight on the 
cancellation invoice from the travel agent, which represents contemporaneous evidence 
from the time of cancellation. This stated that the trip had been cancelled due to changes in 
FCDO advice and As government imposing 14 days of quarantine. The cancellation date 
shown on the invoice mirrors the date As government announced quarantine restrictions on 
incoming travellers and matches the day Mr and Mrs P told Great Lakes theyd cancelled 
their trip. Theres no indication that Mr and Mrs P told the travel agent that they were unwell 
or that theyd been advised to self-isolate prior to cancellation. In my view, the information on 
the cancellation invoice likely reflects the reasons Mr and Mrs P gave the travel agent for 
cancelling their trip at the relevant point in time. 
And Ive borne in mind that while the claim form Mr and Mrs P submitted refers to 
cancellation due to self-isolation because of Covid-19 symptoms, they also told Great Lakes, 
in a letter, that they were advised by their travel agent that As government was imposing 
quarantine restrictions which wouldve lasted for the length of their stay. They dont appear 
to have cancelled their trip on the day theyve said their symptoms developed  their trip was 
cancelled on the day As quarantine restrictions were announced. This would suggest that 
these restrictions did play at least some role in their overall decision to cancel their trip.
Taking all of the evidence together, I still think its at least as likely that the government 
restrictions in A were the main reason why Mr and Mrs P decided to cancel their trip. This 
means then that theres still no medical evidence to support their claim, but also that its 
most likely the exclusion I set out in my provisional decision would apply to the 
circumstances of their claim anyway.
Mr and Mrs P have stated that the government-imposed lockdown and travel restrictions 
wouldve superseded the self-isolation requirements. While the FCDO did advise against all 
but essential travel on 17 March 2020 and lockdown was announced on 23 March 2020, 
both of these events happened after Mr and Mrs P had already cancelled their trip. So I dont 
think I could fairly direct Great Lakes to accept their claim on this basis either.Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ps position, I find it was fair and reasonable for 
Great Lakes to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman