DRN-4279724
The complaint
Mrs M has a mortgage with Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. She complains that 
Kensington wouldnt offer her a fixed interest rate product, change her interest-only 
mortgage onto a repayment basis, or offer her any meaningful support with her increasing 
mortgage interest payments.
What happened
Mrs M took out her mortgage with GE Money Home Lending Limited in 2007. She borrowed 
£87,750 over a term of 25 years, on an interest-only basis. 
The interest rate on the mortgage was fixed at 6.34% for the first three years. It then 
reverted to a variable rate of 2.19% above the Barclays Bank plc base rate. In 2016, GE 
Money sold the mortgage to Kensington.
In April 2022, Mrs M got in touch with Kensington and asked whether she could switch to a 
repayment mortgage or take a fixed interest rate. Kensington said Mrs Ms mortgage had a 
small arrears balance which she would need to repay before it could look into making 
changes to her mortgage. At the end of May 2022, Mrs M cleared the arrears.
In early June 2022, Mrs M contacted Kensington again to discuss her options. Kensington 
said it would send her an application pack to fill in to change the mortgage to a capital and 
interest repayment basis. Mrs M didnt receive the pack for several weeks. At the end of July 
2022, she contacted Kensington to ask about the information she needed to include. 
Kensington received her completed application at the beginning of August 2022.
Mrs M says she waited for Kensington to get back to her and chased a response, and in 
October when she had still heard nothing, she complained about the lack of progress. She 
also set out her concerns about rising interest rates and asked again for a fixed rate. 
Kensington said there had been some confusion following Mrs Ms initial request to make 
changes to her mortgage, because it thought Mrs M hadnt been very clear about what she 
wanted. It nevertheless accepted it had caused some delay and provided poor service, so it 
paid Mrs M £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Kensington also said it couldnt offer Mrs M a new interest rate product, initially because it 
did not have the functionality, and later because her mortgage originated with GE Money. It 
suggested she take independent advice. It later went through Mrs Ms income and 
expenditure and offered to accept reduced payments for three months. But it said it couldnt 
change the mortgage to a repayment basis because this would result in Mrs Ms monthly 
payments almost doubling, and she wouldnt be able to afford them. 
Mrs M referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, and said she was 
becoming increasingly concerned about her situation and the impact of rising interest rates. 
Our Investigator found that changing the mortgage to a repayment basis wouldnt be 
affordable for Mrs M, and that Kensington had been reasonable in offering a temporary 
payment arrangement to support her. 
The Investigator also said that Kensington should have allowed Mrs M to take a fixed 
interest rate product when she asked for one in October 2022, given her concerns at that 
time about rising interest rates. He recommended that Kensington provide Mrs M with details 
of the products it had available at that time, allow her to choose one, and re-work her 
mortgage on that basis. He also recommended that it pay Mrs M an additional £250 
compensation.
Kensington didnt accept that conclusion. It said that the fixed rates it has had available since 
October 2022 have consistently been higher than the rate Mrs M (who is on a rate which is 
tied to a base rate) has been paying  so she has saved money by not switching to a fixed 
rate. It also said that allowing her to take one of those rates now would give her the benefit 
of hindsight and would be unfair.
Our Investigator said Mrs M may choose not to switch to a different product, but he still 
thought she should have been given the option to do so.
Mrs M said she just wanted an affordable mortgage on a repayment basis over an extended 
term which she can afford, so that she doesnt have to worry about what will happen at term 
end.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no obligation on lenders to offer new interest rates to their customers. A lender might 
legitimately choose not to offer rates to any customers. And where it does offer rates, its fair 
and reasonable  and standard practice in the mortgage industry  for a lender to have 
eligibility criteria. These criteria might mean that not all borrowers are offered the same rate, 
or that some are not offered a rate at all, based on matters such as loan to value and arrears 
history. 
In this case, Kensington has given Mrs M and our Investigator different reasons for refusing 
Mrs M a new rate, and its reasons have changed over time:
- It told Mrs M that she couldnt have a rate because it didnt have the functionality.
- It told Mrs M and us that she couldnt have a rate because her mortgage had originally 
been taken out with GE Money. 
- It told us that the reason Mrs M couldnt have a rate was not because her mortgage had 
been securitised (i.e. because it was taken out with GE Money before 2010 and had 
since been securitised).
- It told Mrs M and us that she couldnt have a rate because all the products it had 
available had higher rates than the one she was currently on.
- It told us Mrs M couldnt have a rate because one of its criteria for a new rate is that the 
Reversion Margin on the new product is less than or equal to the Reversion Margin of 
the customers [sic] original product (i.e. from origination), and her mortgage didnt fulfil 
this requirement.
Kensington initially refused Mrs M a new rate because her mortgage originated with GE 
Money. This is because, as part of its business model, Kensington securitises its mortgages. 
This means it offers the beneficial interest in groups of loans to third party investors to raise 
funds for its ongoing mortgage business. This is a normal and legitimate feature of the 
mortgage industry, and its not inherently unfair that Kensington operates its business in this 
way. However, the Financial Ombudsman Service has in other cases taken the view that its 
unfair for borrowers to be refused a new rate because of this, where the borrower cant move 
their mortgage to another lender or shop around for a better rate. I think Mrs M is likely to be 
in that position: she has an interest-only mortgage, and she has told us that she has looked 
for another lender, and she has had multiple discussions recently with an independent 
mortgage adviser  but her income isnt high enough for another lender to lend to her. 
So if Kensington were to say that Mrs M must remain on her current mortgage deal, because 
of the way it has chosen to securitise her mortgage, and that in turn was based on when and 
how she took her mortgage out around 15 years before she asked about a rate in 2022, I 
would, in all the circumstances, consider this not to be a fair and reasonable basis on which 
to refuse her a new interest rate. Refusing Mrs M a new rate on this basis wouldnt be 
because of current characteristics of her or her mortgage  such as loan to value or arrears, 
or her wider credit risk.
The rules of mortgage regulation, to be found in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook under the heading MCOB, are relevant here. In particular, MCOB 11.8.1 E (the E 
means its an evidential provision, not a rule) says that where a borrower is unable to move 
their mortgage to a new lender (as Mrs M was), their existing lender: 
should not (for example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take 
advantage of the customers situation or treat the customer any less favourably than it would 
treat other customers with similar characteristics. To do so may be relied on as tending to 
show contravention of Principle 6 (Customers interests). 
Principle 6 is another part of the FCA Handbook, and says that a firm: 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
Securitisation is not an unusual business model and not inherently unfair. However, this is 
not something Mrs M was aware of or had any control over. And I dont think it can be said to 
amount to a characteristic of Mrs M or her mortgage  its something done to her mortgage 
by Kensington. 
I dont therefore think that Kensingtons choice to manage its business in this way is a 
relevant consideration for the purposes of the comparison envisaged by MCOB 11.8.1 E. Its 
a matter for Kensingtons commercial judgement how it chooses to structure its business. 
But if  as I think is the case here  that results in unfairness in an individual case, thats a 
matter for me.
In my view, whats relevant is whether, when she asked for a new rate, Mrs M had similar 
characteristics to other borrowers who would be eligible for a new interest rate  and 
whether, if she did, refusing her a rate would tend to show unfairness of the sort envisaged 
by MCOB 11.8.1 E.
Kensington has provided details of its eligibility criteria, and said that Mrs M didnt meet one 
of them  that is: Reversion Margin on the new product is less than or equal to the 
Reversion Margin of the customers [sic] original product (i.e. from origination).
The information Kensington has given us about its available rates shows that Mrs M didnt 
meet this requirement in October 2022. This, however, will vary over time and is dependent 
on Kensingtons changing offering  and I think its hard to see its relevance. Mrs M might be 
prepared to take the risk of a higher reversion rate in future in return for the certainty of a 
fixed rate now. She might also, of course, subject to eligibility and availability, choose to take another new fixed rate in future before a reversionary rate on a new product takes effect. So 
I dont think that the fact Mrs Ms mortgage didnt meet this criterion at the time she asked for 
a new rate was a fair and reasonable reason to refuse her, bearing in mind her particular 
circumstances  which included that she had been on a variable reversion rate for a number 
of years and was very concerned about that rate increasing. 
Kensington has also said it refused Mrs M a rate when she asked because the rate she was 
paying was lower than any of the fixed rates it had available, and also lower than its variable 
Mortgage Prisoner rate. I think this is a valid consideration  although it is one for Mrs M 
rather than for Kensington. This isnt one of the eligibility criteria Kensington has provided 
details of, and I share our Investigators view that it was for Mrs M to decide whether she 
wanted to pay a higher rate in return for the certainty of a fixed rate. 
That said, the lowest fixed rate Kensington had available between October 2022 and May 
2023 was a two-year fixed rate at 6.65% - which is higher than the rate Mrs M has been 
paying throughout that period. So Mrs M would need to think very carefully before taking that 
or another fixed rate, and if she does now choose one of the rates Kensington had available, 
resulting in her mortgage being reworked and backdated, she will need to make 
arrangements to pay Kensington the resulting shortfall  by way of a lump sum, additional 
payments agreed with Kensington, or by capitalising the shortfall. Mrs M should bear in mind 
that capitalisation would result in the mortgage balance, and in turn the monthly mortgage 
payments, increasing. I dont consider that Kensington should fairly make good the shortfall, 
in the circumstances and given the uncertainty about whether a fixed rate would be cheaper 
in the long term.   
Taking a new rate may cost Mrs M more in the long run  its impossible to say for sure, 
since that depends on how interest rates move in future generally, and what Barclays base 
rate, to which Mrs Ms current reversionary rate is tied, does in future specifically.
Choosing a new rate now to be implemented retrospectively does, as Kensington has 
pointed out, give Mrs M the benefit of hindsight when making her decision. That, though, is 
down to Kensingtons refusal to make its fixed rate products available to her earlier. Had it 
treated her fairly, she would have been able to decide whether or not to take a rate at the 
time of asking. I nevertheless understand Kensingtons point, and I agree it may not be fair in 
some cases to require it to backdate a rate. 
In this case, though, Mrs M has been clear and consistent about her concerns about rising 
interest rates, and that is why she asked Kensington for a rate in October 2022. I agree with 
our Investigator that October 2022 is a fair starting point to take given Mrs Ms clear 
concerns about rate rises when she asked for a rate at that point, and given that she would 
be very unlikely to have taken a fixed rate in April 2022, when she initially approached 
Kensington about making wider changes to her mortgage. Kensingtons fixed rates were 
then also considerably higher than the variable rate Mrs M was paying.
In all the circumstances, I think Mrs M may well have chosen to take a fixed rate in October 
2022, in order to protect herself against further rises on a variable rate. But even if she 
wouldnt have chosen to do so based on the rates Kensington had available at that time, she 
should still have been given the option of doing so. I therefore find that she should fairly have 
the opportunity to take one of those rates now if she wishes to do so, with independent 
advice if necessary. 
For these reasons, I dont find that Mrs M should fairly have been refused a fixed rate for the 
various reasons Kensington has given. In all the circumstances, therefore, Im satisfied that 
in refusing Mrs M a new rate, Kensington didnt act fairly and reasonably.Mrs M also asked Kensington about changing her mortgage onto a capital and interest 
repayment basis. Kensingtons records show that it looked into this and considered Mrs Ms 
income and expenditure to assess whether she could afford the resulting higher repayments. 
Her payments would have roughly doubled, and I think its clear that this would have been 
unaffordable, as Kensington explained to Mrs M. So I dont consider Kensington treated 
Mrs M unfairly in not changing the payment basis of her mortgage. I also dont consider it 
was unfair in offering to accept reduced payments for three months when Mrs M asked it 
about what forbearance options it could offer her as she was concerned about her rising 
monthly payments.  
Mrs M has told our Investigator that she wants to look into extending her mortgage term; 
doing this may make a switch to a repayment basis affordable. Kensington has said Mrs M 
hasnt yet asked it about this but it will consider a term extension if she asks. I leave it to 
Mrs M and Kensington to discuss this in the first instance.
Finally, I recognise that this matter has caused Mrs M considerable stress and anxiety. 
Mrs M has explained that it has affected her health and resulted in her needing to take time 
off work. I agree with our Investigator that £250 compensation in addition to the £500 
Kensington has already paid is a fair and reasonable award in recognition of the impact its 
treatment of her, including its delays in dealing with her requests, has had.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Kensington should give Mrs M the option of putting her in the 
position she would have been in had it offered her a rate when she asked in October 2022. 
Allowing time for an application to proceed, if Mrs M accepts this option, it should rework her 
mortgage as if a rate had been in place from 1 December 2022. 
Kensington should provide Mrs M with a list of the rates it had available in October 2022. If 
Mrs M chooses to accept one of those rates, Kensington must re-calculate her mortgage on 
that basis  it will also be entitled to ask Mrs M to pay any shortfall because the interest rate 
she has been paying has been lower than the fixed rate. That can be by way of a one-off 
payment, additional payments over a period of time to be agreed between Mrs M and 
Kensington, or capitalisation. 
Kensington should give any future application for a new rate fair consideration according to 
its criteria at the time, taking into account MCOB 11.8.1 E if it is still relevant at that time.
Kensington should also pay Mrs M £250 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to: 
- provide Mrs M with a list of the rates it had available in October 2022; 
- if Mrs M chooses to accept one of those rates, Kensington should re-work her mortgage 
on that basis, backdated to 1 December 2022. This will result in a shortfall, which 
Kensington is entitled to ask Mrs M to pay by way of a one-off payment, additional 
payments over a period of time to be agreed between Mrs M and Kensington, or 
capitalisation; and
- pay Mrs M £250 compensation within 28 days of the date we notify it Mrs M has 
accepted this decision, if she does. If payment is not made within 28 days, simple annual interest of 8%* running from the date of notification to the date of payment should be 
added. 
* If there is an 8% interest element to any payment to Mrs M, Kensington may deduct 
income tax from the 8% interest element as required by HMRC. But it should tell Mrs M what 
it has deducted so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if shes entitled to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman