DRN-4471053
The complaint
Mr G complains that Marshmallow Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim was a car, first registered in 2011.
Mr G or one of his parents acquired the car in December 2021 (according to the policy 
documents).
Mr G insured the car on a comprehensive policy with Marshmallow for the period from 
September 2022 to August 2023.
Unfortunately, in mid-December 2022, Mr G reported that the car was damaged in an 
incident on an icy road.
Much of the complaint concerns acts or omissions by Marshmallows claims-handling 
company. Insofar as I hold Marshmallow responsible for such acts or omissions, I will refer 
to them as Marshmallows.
Marshmallow took possession of Mr Gs car.
From late December 2022, Marshmallow arranged for a car hire company to supply a car to 
Mr G.
On about 23 January 2023, Marshmallow decided that Mr Gs car was a total loss.
Marshmallow has said  but Mr G disputes - that on 23 January 2023, Marshmallow or its 
repairer told him that he needed to return the hire car by 30 January 2023.
Mr G returned the hire car on the afternoon of 9 February 2023.
The car hire company charged Mr G for those 9 days, totalling about £700.00.
On about 13 February 2023, Mr G complained to Marshmallow that it should cover that cost.
By a final response dated early April 2023, Marshmallow turned down the complaint.
Mr G brought his complaint to us in early May 2023.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that it 
was reasonable to say that Mr G shouldve returned the car by 1 February 2023. The 
investigator recommended that Marshmallow should be liable for the car hire costs up to, 
and including, 1 February 2023. He said that Mr G should be liable for the hire costs after 
this date from 2 February 2023 until 9 February 2023.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G  
and to Marshmallow on 8 November 2023. I summarise my findings:
I wasnt minded to find Marshmallow responsible for the hire companys charges to 
Mr G for the period after 30 January 2023
Subject to any further information either from Mr G or from Marshmallow, my provisional 
decision was not to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Marshmallow Insurance 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr G disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
It is the standard procedure of the insurance company to give 7 days' notice of a 
vehicle being off hired. He can only assume that the reason for this is to allow 
customers to play out returning the vehicle. 
When he was first contacted by the car hire company on 30 January, he was asked 
to return the vehicle that day, despite him being across the country. He does not 
think it is reasonable to expect him to drop everything to return a vehicle he had no 
reason to expect would be off hired. 
He kept the vehicle for longer than 7 days. That was due to the amount of confusion, 
mixed messaging and false statements made during that time. 
If the email had been sent by the repair company on 23 January as they said it was, 
then he would have adjusted his plans accordingly and returned the hire car on time. 
However they did not send the email. So, he kept his original plans not knowing the 
car was to be off hired.
He didn't receive any written confirmation that his car was written off until 9 February 
after he returned the hire car. 
Marshmallow accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Marshmallows terms included the following:
8 - Provision of a Courtesy Vehicle
If the insured vehicle is accepted by our approved repairer as being a repairable 
proposition, but it is subsequently deemed by us to be beyond economical repair, we 
reserve the right to withdraw the courtesy vehicle immediately.
Thats not an unusual term in a motor insurance policy.As Ive said, on about 23 January 2023, Marshmallow decided that Mr Gs car was a total 
loss.
When he brought his complaint to us in May 2023, Mr Gs complaint form included the 
following:
The first time [the car hire company] contacted me was on the 30th and it was by
phone
On 4 February 2023 (a Saturday), Mr G and Marshmallow had a webchat. Mr G said the
following:
[car hire company] called me ten minutes after [claims-handling company] asking
me to return the car on Tuesday. They told me that the hire ended on the 31st 
From those two statements, I find that the car hire company contacted Mr G on 30 January 
2023 (a Monday) to ask him to return its car by no later than 31 January (a Tuesday).
The webchat on 4 February 2023 also included Marshmallows statement as follows:
your hire would have stopped when [the claims-handling company] determined your 
car to be a total loss, as we don't issue courtesy/hire cars in the event of a total loss.
That was in line with the policy term, in my view.
Mr Gs response to the provisional decision
Mr G has said that it is the standard procedure of the insurance company to give 7 days' 
notice of a vehicle being off hired. I havent seen any evidence to support that. And it would 
fly in the face of the policy term quoted above that Marshmallow had the right to withdraw 
the courtesy vehicle immediately. So I dont accept that Marshmallow had any standard 
procedure to give 7 days' notice.
Mr G has said that on 30 January he was across the country and he does not think it is 
reasonable to expect him to drop everything to return a vehicle he had no reason to expect 
would be off hired. However, he hasnt given any detail of his whereabouts that day, or why 
he couldnt return the vehicle the next day (or even that week). So I dont find it 
unreasonable to expect Mr G to return the car by no later than 31 January 2023.
Mr G has said that he kept the car due to the amount of confusion, mixed messaging and 
false statements. However, the webchat on 4 February 2023 had made clear that the hire 
had stopped. So I consider that Mr G was hanging onto the car for reasons of his own.
Mr G has said that If the email had been sent by the repair company on 23 January 2023, 
then he would have adjusted his plans accordingly. However, Mr G hasnt given any detail of 
his plans. And after the webchat on 4 February 2023 had made clear that the hire had 
stopped, he didnt adjust his plans so as to return the car before the afternoon of 9 February 
2023. So I dont accept that he wouldve adjusted his plans on 23 January.
Mr G has said that he didn't receive any written confirmation that his car was written off until 
9 February. However, I find that the repairer had told him by 30 January 2023 that his car 
was to be written off as a total loss.
ConclusionMr G hung on to the hire car after the car hire company asked him on 30 January 2023 to 
return it. Even after Marshmallow confirmed the position on 4 February 2023, Mr G hung on 
to the hire car until 9 February 2023.
So I dont find Marshmallow responsible for the hire companys charges to Mr G for the 
period after 30 January 2023. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Marshmallow Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman