DRN-3818829
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Santander UK Plc will not refund the money he lost as the result of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Mr G has brought his complaint through a representative, for ease of reading I will refer 
solely to Mr G in this decision.
What happened
Mr G received a call in July 2018 advising him an account he held at another bank (bank 2) 
was at risk. The caller, who had spoofed the published phone number of bank 2, explained 
he was a manager at bank 2 and said that Mr G needed to move his money to a safe 
account. Mr G says the caller was very professional, knowledgeable and created a credible 
sense of urgency. They had his personal details and information about his account. 
Concerned about the safety of his money, Mr G went ahead and transferred £7,500 from 
bank 2 into the safe account that the caller gave him the details for. 
The following day Mr G received a second call from the same person on the same number. 
He was told his Santander account was also at risk and that he should move his money in 
that account into the same safe account. For the same reasons as the day before, Mr G 
found the call to be plausible and tried to move £10,500. As this was over his daily limit the 
online transfer failed, so Mr G went to his local branch. 
In the branch Santander asked about the reason for the payment, Mr G answered exactly as 
the caller had coached him to. The transfer was successful. After Mr G received a third call 
he became concerned he was the victim of a scam and so returned to the branch. Santander 
investigated and confirmed it was a scam. Mr G says he was left to report it to Santanders 
fraud team, they would not provide a refund and could not recover any of the money from 
the beneficiary.
Mr G is unhappy with the security and service Santander provided. This loss has been 
devastating for him and his family. He asks for a refund of the £10,500; £500 compensation 
and for the bank to cover any legal costs has to pay as a result of this scam.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said she was unable to conclude 
Santander could reasonably have done more to prevent Mr Gs loss. The branch had asked 
Mr G questions about the payment but he responded with what the caller had coached him 
to say. And she felt had the bank probed further Mr G would still have proceeded.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr G asked for an ombudsmans review. He said Santander 
should have done much more to prevent Mr G making the payment. The bank is the expert 
and has a number of tools it can use to break the spell of such scams. In this case they were 
not deployed.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Theres no dispute that Mr G made and authorised the payment. Mr G understood he was 
moving money out of his Santander account and the reason why. At the stage he was 
making this payment, he believed his account was at risk of being hacked and so wanted to 
transfer his money to protect it. I dont dispute Mr G was scammed and he wasnt making the 
transfer for the reason he thought he was, but I remain satisfied the transaction was 
authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Santander has an obligation to follow Mr Gs instructions. So in the
first instance Mr G is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be 
taken into account.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. As the payment was made prior to the launch of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) the principles of that code do not apply in this case.
Overall, this means I think that Santander should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I think Santander acted fairly and reasonably. It detected the payment as 
unusual for Mr G and queried it. Mr G cant recall the questions the branch asked, just that 
there were only one or two. There is no record of the exact conversation, but Santander has 
confirmed branch staff used a mandatory scam script on all payments over £1,500 leaving 
the bank at this time. Unfortunately Mr G had been effectively coached by the caller and so 
lied to the branch staff about the transaction. He feels strongly had Santander done more the 
scam would have been prevented. But I am not certain that is the case here. 
I am not persuaded that had Santander probed further, Mr G would have been honest at this 
stage. The in-branch phone to speak to the fraud team was available to Mr G, but based on 
his testimony I cant see he was in any way hesitant about the payment at this stage and so 
did not opt to make use of this facility. I havent found any evidence that he would have done 
so had the branch staff prompted him to  on this visit he firmly believed his money was at 
risk and needed moving. 
I also note he had not at this stage questioned why the caller who initially claimed to be a 
manager from bank 2 was now advising him that his Santander account was also at risk. I 
think he was firmly under the spell of the scam at this point and further questioning from 
Santander would most likely not have changed this.Ive also thought about whether Santander took reasonable steps to recover Mr Gs funds 
once it was made aware he was the victim of a scam. The scam payment was made on 20 
July 2021 at 11.34. Mr G reported the scam at 12.32 the following day. Santander contacted 
the beneficiary bank at 13.14 that same day. The receiving bank confirmed on 23 July 2021 
that all the money had left the account. So, although I appreciate Mr G did not know he was 
a victim of a scam before the 21st, I am satisfied Santander acted as quickly as we would 
expect to try to recover the money for Mr G.
It follows I am not instructing Santander to refund any money to Mr G. This was a difficult 
decision to make, Im sorry Mr G has lost a considerable amount of money and I can 
understand why he would like to be compensated for his losses. I do accept he has fallen 
victim to as a cruel scam. But I can only consider whether the bank, which had no 
involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible for what happened and whether it 
is fair to hold it responsible for Mr Gs losses when there were signs that things were not 
quite right. For the reasons set out above I do not find Santander can be held liable in the 
circumstances of this case.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman