DRN-3917301
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that several false statements about income and expenditure were 
made on their mortgage application by Barclays Bank UK PLC in 2008.
What happened
In 2008 Mr and Mrs W took an offset mortgage with Barclays for approximately £250,000. 
Payments were interest only and the mortgage term was 16 years. Mr W says he was a  
self-employed trader but wasnt working at the time of the application. But he says he was 
told by and adviser to use the previous years income.
In 2021 Mr and Mrs W made a request for all the data held by Barclays about them. They 
say that revealed several false statements on the application, in particular, that                   
Mr and Mrs W had a £5,000 loan outstanding and that Mr W had a monthly income of 
£5,500. They also say that there is no evidence that they signed the document. So,            
Mr and Mrs W think the mortgage was mis-sold.
Documentation from the time shows Mr and Mrs Ws repayment strategy was making lump 
sum payments from savings as and when theyve accumulated. But that didnt happen so 
the majority of the mortgage amount borrowed may remain outstanding at the end of the 
term.
In its final response letter dated 29 November 2021, Barclays said Mr and Mrs W had 
brought their complaint too late. So, it didnt consider the merits of their complaint.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs W asked us to look into their complaint. 
Our investigator found that we could look into their complaint because the disputed 
information on the application form wasnt revealed to Mr and Mrs W until Barclays 
responded to their data request in 2021.
However, when our investigator looked into the merits, he didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint. He said he hasnt seen that the disputed information had a negative impact on  
Mr and Mrs W as they knew they had an interest only mortgage and knew it would be 
repayable at the end of the term if they did not repay it sooner. He hadnt seen evidence 
showing what Mr and Mrs Ws income was at the time, but Barclays werent required by 
regulation to obtain evidence of it. So, he hadnt seen that Barclays had done anything 
wrong.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They said, while they accepted the basis of our investigators 
findings, false information was submitted which they didnt agree to, on a document that is 
not signed.
As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr and Mrs Ws complaint Ive thought about whether Barclays acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when Mr and Mrs W submitted their application in 2008. Specifically, Ive 
considered whether the evidence available shows that its likely that Barclays falsified 
information on their application form.
The evidence Ive seen showing the information submitted for underwriting in 2008 appears 
to be a digitalised version of the application form, rather than a photocopy of a handwritten 
form. Whether the form was originally handwritten or was typed straight into a computer by a 
Barclays representative is unclear. However, contrary to what Mr and Mrs W say theyve 
seen, Barclays has provided us with a copy of an original mortgage declaration. Thats 
signed by hand in three places and the signatures are dated 30 June 2008. I have no way of 
verifying whether those signatures are Mr and Mrs Ws, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
they are not.
The copy of the declaration itself appears to be a scanned copy of an original, whereas the 
document showing the application details does not appear to be a scanned copy of an 
original. So, even if I could be sure the signatures on the declaration were Mr and Mrs Ws, I 
couldnt conclude that theyd declared the information Ive seen in the application was 
correct. That said, I think its more likely than not that the declaration document is genuine, 
and Mr and Mrs W did sign a declaration to confirm that the information in an application was 
correct. I say that because I think that was standard procedure at that time and I havent 
seen anything that would lead me to doubt the documents authenticity.
It appears that Barclays chose not to ask Mr and Mrs W for evidence of income. It didnt 
have to at the time and I think, in this case, it chose not to because the loan to value was 
below a specific threshold, so Barclays deemed the mortgage low risk. I understand that its 
therefore possible that income could be declared that wasnt accurate, or in some cases, 
simply wasnt provable. 
We havent asked Mr and Mrs W to prove what their income was at that time. I think thats 
unnecessary in this case. I say that because even if they did, the documentation from the 
time doesnt allow us to conclude which party  Barclays or Mr and Mrs W  was responsible 
for providing the incorrect information. As Barclays didnt require evidence of income in this 
case, Ive no way of knowing which party stated the incorrect information or whether the 
other party knew it was incorrect.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W may feel that my findings call into question their integrity. I 
assure them that is not my intention. However, to uphold a complaint of this nature, I must 
be sure that its more likely than not that Barclays were responsible for the incorrect 
information submitted. The evidence here doesnt support that conclusion, so I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 Gavin Cook
Ombudsman