DRN-3092791
The complaint
Miss H on behalf of A, a limited company, has complained about the way that AXA 
Insurance UK Plc handled a claim under its property owners insurance policy for accidental 
damage. 
What happened
A owns the freehold of a block of flats. Miss H owns the leasehold interest in a two bedroom 
flat in the block where she lives with her partner and two children. 
Miss H contacted the managing agent in March 2020 after water came into a bedroom in the 
flat through the roof. The managing agent repaired the roof and made a claim to AXA. The 
managing agent gave the loss adjuster a quote for the repairs to the flat.
AXA instructed a loss adjuster who inspected the flat in early June by video call. He reported 
that there were water stains in the bedroom and kitchen along with damage to the electrics. 
AXA asked Miss H to provide another estimate for the repair.
In July AXA offered Miss H the total of her estimate for the repairs less the £100 excess 
payable under the policy. Miss H didnt accept the offer. The loss adjuster then agreed that 
Miss H could proceed with the works and send the invoice to AXA.
Miss H asked the loss adjuster about alternative accommodation (AA). He said hotel costs 
wouldnt be covered as the kitchen in the flat wasnt affected. Miss H disputed this. She said 
the kitchen and one bedroom needed to have plaster removed from the walls, a damp proof 
treatment applied, walls re-plastered and then decorated. She said all the furniture from the 
affected bedroom and kitchen would need to be stored in the living room and other bedroom, 
leaving no space for the family to work, study or sleep. The loss adjuster didnt change his 
view. In July 2020 he said the policy didnt cover AA as the flat still had cooking and washing 
facilities.
On 10 August the managing agent challenged the decision not to pay for AA. Miss H said 
she wanted the work to be carried out before the children returned to school in September. 
She asked her builder to start work on 24 August. She said shed investigated short lets in 
the area and found them to be very expensive. She booked last minute flights and hotel 
accommodation abroad which could be cancelled up to their departure on 23 August. On 
24 August the loss adjuster emailed Miss H to say that AXA would pay for a two week stay in 
a hotel. 
The family returned to the UK on 31 August and booked into a family room at a hotel for a 
further five nights. Miss H said the work over-ran and they had to stay in the hotel another 
four nights. In September she sent the loss adjuster a claim for accommodation and 
associated expenses.
The loss adjuster said AXA wouldnt reimburse the cost of the holiday because it had been 
Miss Hs decision to travel abroad. He said she could have stayed in a local hotel at a cost of 
no more than £100 to £120 a night as opposed to the hotel in the UK that shed chosen.
Miss H didnt agree that the trip abroad had been a holiday. She said theyd been forced out 
of their home during a pandemic. She also said some of the work had to be redone due to 
her pressurising the builder to complete the job as quickly as possible. That would involve 
her in the further expense of getting work redone.
Miss H also complained that the loss adjuster had asked her during the video call whether 
her carpet was damaged. Shed showed him the damaged carpet. He later emailed her, 
saying that hed told her in the video call that the carpet wasnt covered by the policy as it 
didnt cover contents. Miss H says the loss adjuster hadnt explained that on the call.
Miss H brought As complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it in part. She didnt 
think AXA had handled the claim fairly. She recommended that AXA should pay reasonable 
hotel costs at what AXA would have paid for the nine night stay after the overseas visit, pay 
a disturbance allowance for the nine days of hotel stay at £10 per day per adult and £5 per 
day per child and add interest at 8% per annum from the date of payment for hotel costs to 
the date of settlement. 
As Miss H on behalf of A didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As policy covered the cost of reasonable AA for the leaseholders if the building couldnt be 
lived in as a result of insured damage. 
Despite AXAs initial stance it doesnt appear to be disputed now that in fact the flat wasnt fit 
to live in while the repair work was being carried out. Having seen the level of disruption the 
works caused and taking into account Miss Hs family circumstances, I think that was 
reasonable. 
The purpose of AA cover is to pay for the reasonable additional cost of temporarily 
rehousing the household when the home isnt fit to be lived in as a result of damage caused 
by something covered by the policy.
When I say reasonable I generally take that to mean a similar type of property to the one the 
consumer is insured for. And I take additional to mean costs above and beyond what a 
consumer would usually pay if the claim hadnt arisen. Where AA is only required for a few 
weeks, as in this case, staying in a hotel as opposed to a short term let might well be 
reasonable. The accommodation has to be suitable for them to live their normal lives with as 
little disruption as possible.
Miss H explained the decision to fly abroad to an all-inclusive hotel as follows:
With the current pandemic I was not prepared to spend long days in a hotel room in the 
UK so I took the decision to take my family abroad where we were guaranteed warmer 
weather than the UK and could spend much of the day outside."
She said she was worried about a long hotel stay in a city where infection rates were high. 
She was at pains to stress that this wasnt a holiday.
I can understand why travelling abroad was a more attractive option in the circumstances 
while the repairs were being carried out. Being cooped up in a hotel room with children would be difficult. But that wasnt AXAs fault. I also accept that some hotels hadnt reopened 
by this point. But ultimately it was Miss Hs decision to leave the country in order to stay in a 
more pleasant and warmer location while the repairs were carried out knowing that she 
didnt have AXAs approval to do so. I think she should have known that at best AXA would 
only pay for a reasonable hotel near to their flat. Whether or not the primary motivation was 
a holiday, I dont think the cost of this stay was a reasonable additional cost that AXA should 
have to bear. 
Since the works hadnt been finished by the time the family returned from abroad, I agree 
with our investigator that it would be reasonable for AXA to pay for the nine nights they spent 
in a hotel at the rate AXA would have paid for a hotel at the time in a location reasonably 
near to the flat and consequently the schools attended by the children.
Unlike accommodation costs, expenses on food and drink arent usually specifically covered 
by most insurance policies. But I generally think its fair and good industry practice for an 
insurer to cover the reasonable additional costs a consumer has incurred in eating out, 
breakfast expenses or buying ready meals over and above their usual expenditure. The 
industry standard in this situation is a daily allowance of £10 a day for an adult and £5 for 
each child. This is what I think AXA should pay for the period that Miss H and her family 
were staying in a hotel in the UK.
Technically AXA was correct to class the carpet as contents and so not covered by the policy. 
I can understand that it might have been disappointing for Miss H if the loss adjuster had 
given her the impression during the video call that the carpet might be covered. But he might 
well have not been sure about the policy coverage until hed checked with the insurer. Since 
any mistake was corrected within a short time and I cant see Miss H lost out financially as a 
result of this, I dont think AXA has to do any more in respect of this.
Miss H says the work wasnt carried out properly because she put pressure on the builder to 
finish as quickly as possible. As a result the damp proof treatment and plaster werent 
completely dry before painting. So some work has had to be redone. Miss H should send AXA 
evidence of this for it to consider whether or not it is liable.
Putting things right
To put things right I think AXA should pay Miss H reasonable hotel costs at what AXA would 
have paid for the nine night stay after the overseas visit, pay a disturbance allowance for the 
nine days of hotel stay at £10 per day per adult and £5 per day per child and add interest* on 
these from the date of Miss H paid for the hotel to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold this complain and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to act as set out in the section 
above headed Putting things right.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount specified and from/to the 
dates stated. If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Miss H, it should tell her how much 
its taken off. It should also give Miss H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman