DRN-4121832
The complaint
Mr T complains that Marsh Finance Ltd (Marsh) irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr T acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from Marsh. 
Mr T was required to make 47 monthly repayments of £449.09, with a final optional payment 
of £9,903.18 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £31,010.41.
I understand that, having paid all sums due up to August 2021, Mr T then sold the car and 
settled the agreement in September 2021. 
Mr T says Marsh didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable to him from the outset and worsened his already 
difficult financial situation. Marsh didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough 
assessment which included asking Mr T to provide copy payslips and bank statements. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Marsh ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr T.
Marsh didnt agree and said Mr T had enough disposable income to be able to afford the 
finance. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Marsh will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I agree that Marsh gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr T about his ability to repay. I say this because, having noted that in 
addition to completing a credit check, Marsh asked Mr T to provide a copy payslip and also 
copy bank statements for the previous three months. That means it was in a position to 
verify his income at the time and also have some understanding of his overall financial 
situation, being able to see Mr Ts regular income and expenditure. 
Mr T has also provided us with a copy of his credit report. This didnt show major issues of 
concerns in the in the three years prior to his taking out the agreement, such as defaulting  
on making required credit repayments. 
However, just because I think Marsh carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought carefully about what the 
evidence and information showed. And Ive kept in mind all the responses made by Marsh to 
our adjudicators uphold finding. 
In addition to the bank statements Marsh saw at the time, Mr T also sent us a further 
statement, covering the remainder of June and some of July 2020. Whilst this is helpful, I 
dont think it adds to or significantly changes my view about what the income and 
expenditure information Marsh had to hand at the time of the agreement showed about Mr T 
and his financial circumstances. 
Ive seen that Mr Ts bank statements show his income, which is consistent with the payslip 
he provided. Also, I agree with our adjudicator that there is significant evidence of Mr T being 
over-reliant on short-term, high cost  borrowing, in addition to longer term loan repayments. 
At the same time, Mr T was also maintaining a mortgage and several revolving credit 
accounts.
 
Broadly speaking, I would say the statements leading up to the lending decision show that 
Mr T was spending an average of around £2,300 each month on credit, plus another £900 
on housing costs arising from his shared ownership agreement. This already amounts to 
more than his monthly income and is before he started for paying for daily expenses such as 
utilities, food, clothing and car running costs. I also noticed that only one mortgage payment 
was showing in the bank statements. Responding to my query about this, Mr T said that at 
the time he had fallen behind with his mortgage payments and so had been allowed a 
payment holiday by his mortgage provider. 
Mr T also confirmed that at the time he was in significant arrears with his housing 
association and this meant that he was making ad hoc payments by way of bank transfers 
whenever possible, over and above the £700 that was normally due each month. This is a 
further issue that Marsh has queried. And as Marsh has correctly noted, Mr Ts mother was 
making occasional payments of around £2-300. Mr T has explained this was an attempt to 
help alleviate the extent of his financial difficulties. 
I think all this strongly suggests that at the point of taking out the agreement, Mr Ts financial 
circumstances were already deteriorating, to the extent that he was regularly resorting to 
high-cost short term borrowing as well as borrowing from family members, in addition to an 
already existing level of secured and unsecured credit. It follows that had Marsh taken steps 
to better understand the information it had been provided with about Mr Ts finances, it would 
have seen he wasnt in a position to afford the repayments towards the new agreement 
without experiencing even more difficulty and having to borrow further. Marsh therefore 
didnt make a fair lending decision.
Putting things right  what Marsh needs to do
The car was sold in September 2021 and the agreement was then settled in full. 
As I dont think Marsh ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr T should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £22,098.08. Anything Mr T has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ts complaint Marsh should do the following:Refund any payments Mr T has made in excess of 22,098.08, representing the 
original cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Marsh to take off tax from this interest. Marsh must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr T asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Marsh Finance Ltd to put things right in the manner set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman