DRN-3282765
The complaint
Mrs K complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Mrs K was provided with a credit card by NewDay in 2017. The credit limit was £600. She 
says that the lending shouldnt have been provided as at the time she was in a debt 
management plan and was struggling financially. She says adequate checks werent carried 
out before the account was provided.
NewDay says that Mrs K applied for the card stating her annual income was £24, 500 and 
that she had other household income of £24,900 and that she had £7,800 of unsecured 
debt. It says it carried out a credit check and while there was a default recorded it was from 
21 months prior to the application. It says its checks showed that Mrs K had no pay day 
loans, no accounts in arrears and had a settled payment arrangement. It says that based on 
its checks, Mrs K met its lending criteria and was provided with an account with a £600 limit. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint.
Mrs K didnt accept our investigators view. She reiterated that she had existing financial 
difficulties at the time and said her bank statements showed she had direct debits being 
returned and was in her overdraft. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit to Mrs K we would expect NewDay to carry out adequate checks to 
ensure the lending was affordable. There isnt a specific list of checks and it is generally 
reasonable to consider more detailed checks to be required in cases where the consumers 
income is low, the repayments account for a high proportion of income, or where the 
information gathered raises concerns about the consumers ability to afford the credit.
As part of the application process, Mrs K said she was employed with an annual income of 
£24,500 and other household income of £24,900 and that she had unsecured debts of 
£7,800. Given the credit limit that was being considered for the account, and the resulting 
repayments that would be required compared to Mrs Ks declared income, I find it 
reasonable that the information provided about Mrs Ks income was relied on without further 
verification. 
NewDay carried out a credit search and this showed that Mrs K had a defaulted account, but 
this was historic (21 months prior to the application) and had a balance of £200. The search 
didnt show any accounts in arrears or recent credit searches and found no county court 
judgements on her accounts or debt management plans. Based on this I do not think the 
credit search raised concerns that would have required further questions to have been 
asked.
So, while I note the comments about Mrs Ks bank statements showing her being in 
overdraft I do not think in this case NewDay needed to verify Mrs Ks information by asking 
for bank statements. I also find it reasonable that it relied on the information from its credit 
search and do not find this raised concerns about Mrs K being in financial difficulty. 
In conclusion, I think reasonable checks were carried out before the credit card account was 
provided and based on a credit limit of £600, I do not find that the checks suggested the 
credit was unaffordable. Therefore, in this case, I do not find that I have enough to say that 
NewDay was wrong to provide Mrs K with a credit card account with a limit of £600.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.       
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman