DRN-4071273
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) because of the 
unclear information given to him when he wanted to add a temporary additional vehicle to his 
commercial motor policy. 
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ss van needed repairs, so he contacted UKI through its chat function and by 
telephone to find out if he could add a temporary van on his policy.
On the evidence available, Im satisfied that under Mr Ss policy terms and 
conditions, he wasnt eligible for a courtesy van as the vehicle that he was insured for 
needed to have been damaged because of an accident, fire or theft. Or if its stolen 
and not recovered. As his van needed emergency repairs, there was no cover for this 
under Mr Ss policy for this. 
Ive considered the communication Mr S had with UKI between 28 January 2023 and
30 January 2023.  I can see there was some confusion and Mr S was led to believe 
initially that he would be able to add a temporary vehicle onto his policy. He was 
asked to contact the customer service team the following day. But that was a 
Sunday, and the telephone line was closed. Mr S then contacted the chat function 
again and then was told he wouldnt be able to add the van on the policy on a 
temporary basis.   
Having considered the communication, I think Mr S was provided unclear information 
and UKI didnt manage his expectations as well as it could have. Had UKI done this 
on 28 January 2023, the confusion and inconvenience caused could have been 
avoided. 
Mr S experienced delay in getting the temporary vehicle insured elsewhere and 
unnecessary frustration and inconvenience. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied therefore that £75 is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation for the delay Mr S experienced and for the 
inconvenience caused to him. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Putting things right
I order UKI to pay Mr S £75 compensation within 28 days from the date we tell it Mr S has 
accepted my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint about U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Direct Line.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman