DRN-1640636
 
The complaint
Miss W says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
 
What happened
Miss W opened a credit card account with Barclays in 1994. In 2004 she took out a PPI 
policy during a phone call. The policy would have protected her monthly repayments on her 
credit card account if she'd made a successful claim for accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicator's opinion, 
so the complaint's been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ws case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss W's told us that she wasn't aware that she could opt out of buying the policy, 
and she was given the impression that it was compulsory, as part of having the credit 
card. She says she wouldn't have chosen to take it.
 
Barclays records show that Miss W took out the PPI when she'd already had the 
credit card for over ten years. So I think it's unlikely that she'd have thought that she 
couldn't have the card without it. I've also seen a copy of the call script that Barclays 
was using at the time. It instructed the agent to get the cardholder's explicit consent 
before adding PPI to the account. And I've no particular reason to think the script 
wouldn't have been followed in Miss W's case. Taking everything into account, I think 
it would have been clear to Miss W that the PPI was optional. And I think she decided 
to take it out, knowing that she had a choice - although I can understand how she 
may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
 Miss W says Barclays didn't give her advice about the PPI, or recommend that she 
take it out. But Barclays says its agent would have recommended the PPI to Miss W. 
And for the purposes of this decision, I've assumed  that's right. This is to Miss W's 
advantage, as it means that Barclays had a responsibility to check that the PPI was 
suitable for Miss W. But it doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, based on what I've 
seen of her circumstances at the time.
 
Miss W's told us she thinks she'd have been entitled to six months' full pay, followed 
by six months' half pay from her employer if she'd been off sick. But if she'd made a 
successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have 
helped with her monthly credit card payments for up to 12 months. What's more, the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to any payments Miss W received from her 
employer. So she could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
 
I've borne in mind that Miss W's told us her parents could have helped her financially 
if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I can't be sure that Miss W's 
parents would have been in a position to help her if the need had arisen.
 
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Miss W, 
and she wouldn't have had to use any savings she may have had at the time to meet 
her monthly credit card repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job.
 
It's possible the information Barclays gave Miss W about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But I've explained that I'm satisfied she chose to take out the PPI. 
So she seems to have been interested in this type of cover, even if she's 
understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. Based on what I've seen of 
her circumstances at the time, she wasn't affected by any of the main things the 
policy didn't cover (for example, unusual working arrangements, or existing medical 
conditions).
 
The policy was competitively priced. And since Miss W was paying for it monthly, she 
could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if her circumstances change, 
or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
 
So I think it's unlikely that Miss W would have made a different decision even if better 
information had been provided. On balance, I think she'd still have taken out the 
policy.
 
I've taken account of all Miss W's comments, including what she's said about not having 
been told she could opt out of the policy at any time. But I'm satisfied that she'd have known 
that the PPI was optional. And if she'd wanted to cancel it, I think it's likely she'd have 
contacted Barclays to ask about this. I've seen nothing to suggest that she did so.
Miss W has also mentioned having made successful claims regarding PPI she had on other 
products around the time. But we consider each complaint on its individual merits. And for 
the reasons I've set out, I don't find that the PPI was mis-sold in this case.
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman