DRN-4455241
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money she lost when 
she was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. In summary, Mrs N was introduced by friends to a company Ill refer to as L in this 
decision. L was a betting syndicate run by someone Ill refer to as S. Members invested 
funds which were to be used to bet on horse races and later to buy racehorses. L had been 
trading for some years and Mrs N knew people whod made good profits. She invested 
£20,000 in April 2018. 
It later came to light that the syndicate was a scam. L was wound up and S declared himself 
bankrupt owing millions of pounds to multiple investors including Mrs N. 
When the complaint was brought to this service Santander hadnt investigated a complaint or 
issued a final response. When she brought the complaint Mrs N said that L and S had many 
accounts, including with Santander both in the UK and abroad, so Santander should have 
noticed unusual activity on the accounts and prevented payments from being made. Mrs N 
said she would like Santander to reimburse her loss and to take a closer look at S/Ls 
accounts.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that although she thought Santander should have intervened when Mrs N made the payment 
and asked questions about it, it wouldnt have made a difference in the circumstances of this 
case. This is because Mrs Ns answers to any questions Santander asked wouldnt have 
indicated a scam risk.
Mrs N wasnt happy with the investigators findings. I have summarised her main points 
below:
- Mrs N provided a newspaper article about the amount S owed to creditors.
- The director of L has fraudulently taken money from many innocent victims without 
ever placing bets. 
- Santander and other banks failed to flag up the millions of pounds the director of L 
was paying into and out of his accounts in the UK and abroad.
- L had traded for many years and was registered at Companies House, so she had no 
reason to think anything was wrong at the time she made the payment. 
- Mrs N provided a screenshot from the internet that said suspicious activity should be 
reported so that banks can prevent criminals from using the financial system to carry 
out illegal activities.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Im really sorry to hear about what has happened and about what the loss of her funds has 
meant for Mrs N. There is no question that she and others have been duped into paying 
money to a scheme that wasnt legitimate. But that doesnt automatically mean that 
Santander must reimburse Mrs Ns loss. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Santander is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. Its not disputed that Mrs N made and 
authorised these payments.
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) didnt 
come into force until after Mrs N made the scam payment, so I cant apply it here. But 
Santander had a duty to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
I agree with the investigator that Santander ought to have intervened when Mrs N made the 
payment request and asked her proportionate questions to satisfy itself she wasnt at risk of 
financial harm. Having reviewed Mrs Ns bank statements for the twelve-month period before 
the scam I can see that the largest transaction she made was for just over £3,000 so a faster 
payment of £20,000 was significantly out of character. 
Would intervention have made a difference?
I also need to go on to consider whether this intervention would have prevented Mrs N from 
making the payment. Only if I am satisfied that intervention at the time of the payment would 
have uncovered the scam can I fairly ask Santander to reimburse Mrs Ns loss. 
I think Santander should have asked Mrs N questions about the purpose of the payment, 
how she found out about the opportunity and the returns she was expecting. I dont consider 
that Mrs Ns responses to such questions would have caused concern or uncovered the 
scam. Mrs N likely would have been able to provide genuine and persuasive answers about 
the syndicate because as far as anyone knew it was legitimate at the time.
At the time Mrs N made the payment a family member had shown her the profit he had 
received from the syndicate and Mrs N (or her husband) knew others who had joined years 
before and were making a lot of money. As well as this, L was a registered company and the 
syndicate she was paying into was legitimate as far as anyone knew. It was later revealed 
that the individual running the syndicate had been misappropriating funds and failing in their 
obligations to members, but this wasnt known publicly at the time Mrs N made her payment. 
Santander may have provided a general warning about fraud and scams and how Mrs N 
could protect herself against them. But I think its unlikely Mrs N would have felt such a 
warning applied or that shed have done anything differently because the warning could only 
cover common scams at the time. A scam involving a betting syndicate wouldnt have been 
included in any such warning.
Mrs N says Santander and other banks failed to flag up the millions of pounds S was paying 
into and out of his accounts in the UK and abroad. She has asked this service to look into S 
accounts. Im afraid I cant comment on or consider this wider point as I dont have the power 
to do so. Under the rules that dictate which complaints this service can consider, Mrs N only 
has the right to bring a complaint against Santander that stems directly from her being a 
customer of the bank. This service cannot consider banking practice and fraud prevention 
activity as a whole and this isnt something I can consider as part of this complaint. My role is to consider individual complaints. This service also cant influence any form of criminal 
investigation.
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman