DRN-3871048
The complaint
Mr C complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt properly manage the 
investment in his group personal pension (GPP), causing him a financial loss.
What happened
In 2012, Mr C joined an Aviva GPP through his employer. The illustration Aviva gave Mr C at 
that time said hed chosen a lifestyle investment approach and explained how his fund 
investments would be switched over time.
Mr C was due to reach his chosen retirement age in 2023. In May 2022, Mr C contacted 
Aviva as he was unhappy his pensions value had fallen significantly since December 2021. 
And he asked why most of his pension was invested in medium-to-high risk funds rather 
than low risk funds and thought Aviva should have told him if the risk rating had changed.
Aviva treated this as a complaint. It told Mr C that, in line with his lifestyle approach, most of 
his pension was now invested in its long gilt fund. But it wasnt immune to risk, and 
increased inflation and interest meant gilt values had fallen. Its risk rating for gilts was 
historically 2 out of 7, but this wasnt guaranteed and could change. And while it 
administered Mr Cs pension funds, it was Mr Cs responsibility to make sure they remained 
suitable for him. Aviva said Mr C could change the funds his pension was invested in if he 
wanted, but recommended he seek financial advice first.  
Mr C brought his complaint to our Service. He accepted Aviva had invested his pension 
funds in line with the lifestyle approach but thought Aviva should compensate him for 
investing them in higher risk funds than it should have under the lifestyle approach. 
Aviva told our Service its response to Mr Cs complaint had been incorrect to say its long gilt 
fund historically had a risk rating of 2 on a scale of 1 to 7. Aviva clarified that the risk rating 
had been 5 out of 7 since 2018/19, when Aviva changed its risk rating scale  it was not the 
case that Aviva had assessed the funds risk as intrinsically higher. 
Our Investigator said Aviva hadnt made an error. She said Mr Cs plan was set up with a 
lifestyle approach and started prior to pension freedoms being introduced in 2015 when 
other flexible options werent available. So the lifestyle approachs goal was to invest for an 
annuity purchase, as gilts have an inverse relationship with annuities - when interest rates 
increase, the value of gilts go down and annuity rates go up. Our Investigator said 
unforeseeable global events had affected many investments, including safer options such as 
gilts. And Aviva wasnt required to advise or warn Mr C about this.  
Mr C disagreed. He said Aviva emphasised to him in 2012 that his pension would be 
invested in low risk funds as he approached retirement, so that unforeseen events wouldnt 
have such an impact. But he thought Aviva had instead increased the risk rating of its long 
gilt fund without warning him. 
Our Investigator said it was the responsibility of Mr C or his adviser to ensure Mr C 
understood his pension plan, its investments and their risk ratings. And that Aviva was only 
required to hold and manage the funds in line with the plans terms and Mr Cs instructions. 
Mr C still disagreed. He said Aviva had left him thinking the long gilt funds risk rating was 
being monitored so that significant losses wouldnt happen in the final years. And Aviva 
shouldve told him if the risk rating had changed and if losses were likely, so he could either 
make a decision about this himself or seek financial advice.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. I realise this will be very disappointing to 
Mr C, but Ill explain my reasons.
Its not disputed that at the start of Mr Cs pension, a lifestyle approach was chosen. These 
are used to manage investment risks as a customers retirement age approaches. Over a 
number of years, they gradually move investments out of equity type assets and into cash 
and fixed interest assets, such as gilts  because, generally speaking, investments like this 
are less volatile and lower risk over the long term than equity assets. Mr C has provided us 
with a copy of the 2012 illustration Aviva gave him, which explained what lifestyle approach 
hed be invested in and set out how his pension investments would be switched over the 
years to his chosen retirement age.
Mr C accepts Aviva invested his pension in line with the lifestyle approach he chose in 2012. 
As thats not in dispute, I dont need to consider it further. Instead, Ill focus on the crux of 
Mr Cs complaint - that Aviva invested his pension in higher risk funds than it should have 
under the lifestyle approach. 
Mr C says Aviva told him in 2012 that his pension would be invested in low risk funds as he 
approached retirement. This may have been Mr Cs understanding, but Im satisfied Aviva 
made clear to Mr C that it would move his pension investment into more cautious funds, 
which is not the same as low risk. I say that because the 2012 illustration Mr C has provided 
says, Youve chosen to invest in the [GPP] Profile 3 approach. The Lifestyle investment 
approach automatically moves your pension investments as you approach retirement. The 
aim is to invest in funds with the potential for growth in the early years, and then gradually 
move your money into more cautious funds as you approach retirement. 
As I say, the lifestyle approach is used to manage investment risks as a customers chosen 
retirement age approaches. But even then, risk is not eliminated. In certain situations, fixed 
interest investments can fall in value sharply. Unforeseeable global events meant that the 
value of gilts fell, and 75% of Mr Cs pension fund was invested in gilts in line with his 
chosen lifestyle approach. So Im satisfied that the fall in value Mr C unfortunately suffered 
wasnt due to any error by Aviva. The fund appears to have achieved similar returns to the 
appropriate benchmark indices, indicating it didnt perform any worse than comparable 
funds.
Mr C is concerned that Aviva increased the risk rating of his long gilt fund and didnt warn 
him of this. I note Avivas final response letter incorrectly said its gilt risk rating was 
historically 2 out of 7, and this unfortunately seems to have caused some confusion. Ive 
been provided with copies of Avivas long gilt fund fact sheets across the years. And the fund fact sheets from 2018 (the year Mr Cs lifestyle approach would start to switch his 
investments into the long gilt fund) onwards show the risk rating was 4 out of 5 before 
changing to 5 out of 7 when Aviva widened its risk rating scale. So its long gilt fund risk 
rating has remained broadly the same over that period, albeit using a wider risk scale. 
But regardless, Aviva isnt responsible for monitoring its risk ratings on Mr Cs behalf and 
warning him about changes, as Mr C suggests. Aviva is responsible for administering Mr Cs 
pension in line with his chosen approach. It is for Mr C to monitor his investments to make 
sure they are suitable for him, and I think Aviva took reasonable steps to draw Mr Cs 
attention to this, as I can see the annual statements Aviva sent to Mr C in 2019, 2020, 2021 
and 2022 made clear:
His pension fund value wasnt guaranteed and could still go down as well as up.
Mr C could read about his funds and their performance using the link provided to the 
Aviva website.
Which funds Mr Cs pension was invested in, and that he should review these fund 
choices regularly to check they were still right for him, as how his money was invested 
could make a big difference to his final pension pot.
Aviva offered many different funds to choose from, with different levels of risk and 
reward, and Mr C could explore these online using the link provided. 
Mr C should speak to a financial adviser if he was in doubt about any changes, and 
gave details of how to find one. 
In summary then, I dont think Aviva has made an error or treated Mr C unfairly. It was for 
Mr C to check his pension investments were suitable for his requirements and he could have 
switched his funds if he thought that suited his particular circumstances at that time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman