DRN-3476487
The complaint
Mr H complains St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) gave him unsuitable 
investment advice.
What happened
In 2017, Mr H received advice from SJP to invest £20,000 into an investment bond which 
would be held in a Loan Trust. SJP said this would help mitigate Mr Hs potential inheritance 
tax (IHT) liability. The bond was set up to provide an income of £800 per year. Mr H didnt 
take any withdrawals after 2018. He surrendered the bond in 2021 and paid early exit fees.
In 2018, Mr H told SJP that he would be switching to a new adviser. SJP didnt give ongoing 
advice past this point but did charge for it.
Mr H, represented by his new adviser, made a complaint. His representative complained, 
after looking at the suitability letter, that this advice wasnt suitable. He explained that there 
was no need for the income, so the bond wouldnt have fallen outside of the estate. Mr H 
says he was told the whole investment bond would fall outside of his estate for IHT 
purposes, but that this wasnt the case. Mr Hs representative explained that the advice 
shouldve been to reduce his pension withdrawals as this wouldve had a greater effect on 
his IHT liability. Mr H also complained that no ongoing advice was received and that he 
shouldve been advised of the consequences of cancelling the bond withdrawals.
Whilst our Investigator was looking into this complaint, SJP accepted that it should refund 
the ongoing advice charges when it hadnt provided this service. It said it stopped providing 
advice when Mr H told SJP he was going to use a new adviser. The offer compared what Mr 
Hs bond would have been worth had those charges not been applied and repay the loss 
together with 8% simple interest from the date of withdrawal to the date of settlement. Our 
Investigator felt this was fair. SJP also offered Mr H £125 compensation (as part of overall 
compensation offered to him and his wife) for an apology for its delay investigating his 
complaint.
Our Investigator didnt think the advice overall was unsuitable. He said that it did go towards 
Mr Hs objective of mitigating his IHT liability. And he couldnt see that hed been told the 
whole bond would fall outside of the estate. The Investigator referred to the suitability letter 
which mentioned that the income not spent would fall back within the estate and that the 
investment growth would be outside the estate for the purposes of IHT.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. His representative said 
that the advice shouldve been to reduce Mr Hs pension drawdown to zero as they didnt 
need the additional income. He said this wouldve mitigated his IHT liability as well as saving 
around £6,000 in income tax each year. Mr H would like his exit fees refunded, as well as his 
missed tax savings and pension growth had he been given the different advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ongoing advice
I can see that SJP charged Mr H for ongoing advice. This was part of the service that Mr H 
had signed up for. But when Mr H told SJP in April 2018 that he would be using a different 
adviser, SJP stopped providing this service. It follows that its fair for these charges to be 
refunded  as no ongoing advice was given past this point.
SJP confirmed that the ongoing advice charges to be refunded are:
£100.13 - 1 Feb 2018
£99.17 - 1 Feb 2019
£104.55  1 Feb 2020
£104.10  1 Feb 2021
It has offered to refund these charges by calculating what the investment bond wouldve 
been worth when Mr H surrendered it had those charges not been applied. It would then give 
Mr H the difference plus 8% simple interest from the date Mr H surrendered his bond to the 
date of settlement.
I think this is fair and reasonable. It puts Mr H in the position hed have been in had those 
charges not been applied. And, given SJP didnt provide the ongoing advice past a certain 
point, it is right that SJP doesnt charge for it.
Mis-sale of the investment bond
The main aspect of this complaint is that Mr H was mis-sold the investment bond which was 
put into a Loan Trust. His representative has explained that he had sufficient income and so 
was unlikely to be able to spend the yearly income from this bond, which meant that it would 
always fall back within the estate. Mr Hs representative has explained that had Mr H been 
aware the full investment bond wouldnt fall outside of his estate for IHT purposes he 
wouldnt have taken it out. Mr Hs representative went further and said Mr H shouldve been 
advised to reduce his pension drawdown income to zero and that Mr H has lost out because 
this advice wasnt given.
Ive had to consider the purpose of the advice SJP gave and whether the advice was 
suitable for Mr Hs objectives at the time. Having done so, whilst I can see why Mr Hs 
representative has explained an alternative option, I cant say the advice SJP gave was 
unsuitable for his circumstances and Ill explain why.
Mr H, together with his wife, sought advice from SJP on this occasion because they didnt 
have anything in place to start mitigating their IHT liability. The suitability letter sent to Mr H 
confirms this. So, Ive considered whether the advice SJP recommended addressed this 
need.
Mr H was recommended to invest £20,000 into a Loan Trust. This effectively meant that any 
growth on the investment would fall outside of his estate for IHT purposes, and any 
withdrawals from the bond would also fall outside of his estate if spent. Effectively, the Trust 
meant he could potentially reduce his estate and therefore his IHT liability. It seems 
accepted that the investment bond was in line with Mr Hs attitude to risk, so the advice to 
invest into the bond and setting up a Loan Trust wasnt unsuitable for his circumstances.
Mr Hs representative has focused on the fact Mr H had ample income already, and the 
advice shouldve been to reduce his pension drawdown income to zero. I think its clear Mr H, together with his wife who received advice at the same time, had sufficient income to 
meet their essential expenditure. Ive also seen that the majority of their income was for 
discretionary expenditure. So, I dont think there was an absolute need for additional 
income but the annual income was set to £800. Looking at Mr Hs level of income overall, I 
dont think this made a large amount of difference and could be spent. I can also see 
reference to Mr H wanting to ensure his investment produced an income throughout the 
suitability letter, so I dont think that made it unsuitable. The fact find and suitability letter 
suggests that Mr H was comfortable investing £20,000 but wanted to retain control over that 
money. So, placing those funds into a Loan Trust would give Mr H that control and access to 
the original capital but ensuring any growth falls outside of the estate.
Ive not seen any indication that Mr H was looking to reduce his income. And his 
representatives suggestion is to reduce his income by over £19,000. As there was no 
discussion about reduction of income, I dont think SJP has acted unreasonably in not 
suggesting this advice. Mr H wanted to look at IHT planning, and was given advice that went 
some way, albeit minimal, to mitigate his potential liability. It appears the advice was driven 
by how much Mr H wanted to invest. The alternative Mr Hs representative is suggesting 
would make significant changes to his income and is a holistic view on tax planning as a 
whole, not just something for IHT planning. I cant see that Mr H was looking for that at the 
time of the advice and I dont think the advice was unsuitable on that basis.
Ive also noted that Mr H felt he was told the full amount of the investment bond would fall 
outside of his estate for IHT purposes. But the suitability letter says the following:
Any income received which is not spent will fall back within the Settlors Estate for 
Inheritance Tax purposes, likewise will any outstanding loan amount.
Ive also noted the letter gives a projection of how the IHT liability could be reduced and 
refers to that happening if the Loan Plan is held until February 2042. So, Ive not seen 
anything that says the whole investment falls outside of the estate immediately. I do 
understand that to withdraw the value of the bond using the annual withdrawal amounts 
would take 25 years, making Mr H around 98 years old. But, the purpose of the advice was 
to go some way in mitigating Mr Hs IHT liability and by placing the bond in the Loan Trust, 
this did that.
In summary, whilst I understand Mr Hs representatives point that there were additional tax 
mitigating solutions available, I cant agree that this means this advice was unsuitable. 
Particularly given Mr Hs recorded objectives at the time of retaining control of the capital 
and taking an income. So I wont be asking SJP to refund the exit fees. 
SJP offered £125 for the length of time it took to investigate Mr Hs complaint. As complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, Ive not looked into this aspect. It is up to Mr H to speak to 
SJP if he decides to accept this offer of compensation.
Putting things right
I agree that SJP should ensure Mr H hasnt lost out for being charged for ongoing advice 
that he didnt receive. Its offer is fair and reasonable for this. St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc should now refund the ongoing advice charges (detailed above) by 
calculating what the investment bond wouldve been worth when Mr H surrendered it had 
those charges not been applied. It should then give Mr H the difference plus 8% simple 
interest from the date Mr H surrendered his bond to the date of settlement.If St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partially uphold this complaint. St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc must put things right in the way detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman