DRN-1925090
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about an accidental death plan that Stonebridge International 
Insurance Ltd (Stonebridge) sold.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both sides, so I have only set out a very brief 
summary of what happened below.
Mr and Mrs G held an accidental death plan. It had been sold to them by Stonebridge, and 
was designed to pay a beneficiary a lump sum in the event of a policy holders accidental 
death. 
Mr and Mrs G complained about a number of issues surrounding the sale of that plan. But 
the majority of those issues fell outside of this services jurisdiction  because of the rules 
governing the time limits around when we can, and cannot, consider a complaint.
However, two of the complaint points that Mr and Mr G raised were matters that fell within 
this services jurisdiction. They were:
That Stonebridge had received commission for the sale of Mr and Mrs Gs accidental 
death plan, and the case of Plevin v. Paragon Personal Finance (Plevin) should 
apply to their complaint. 
That Mr and Mrs G felt Stonebridge hadnt provided them with enough information 
about a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) investigation that had been completed 
when it wrote to them in 2014.
Our investigator looked at what had happened, but she said the principles of Plevin werent 
applicable to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint because their accidental death plan hadnt been sold 
alongside a credit agreement. She also said that Stonebridge hadnt been required to 
provide more information about the FCAs review, so she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed with our investigators findings. In summary they set out why they 
thought Plevin should apply to their complaint, and why Stonebridge should have provided 
them with more information about the FCAs review. So as no agreement was reached, the 
matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have set out their position at length and I thank them for taking the time to do 
so. However, I will only focus on those matters that I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. That means I may not address every point or argument thats been presented, 
and I trust that wont be taken as a matter of discourtesy. 
As both sides are aware, the case of Plevin was decided by the Supreme Court in 2014. It 
concerned payment protection insurance (PPI). And it made findings in relation to a lenders 
duty to disclose high levels of commission and the unfair relationship that could be created 
under s.140 of the Consumer Credit Act if it failed to do so. 
Following that judgment, the FCA published rules which explained that the principles of 
Plevin would apply in PPI complaints where:
The complaint is against the lender
The credit agreement started on or after 6 April 2007
Or it started before 6 April 2007 and was still running on or after 6 April 2008
And the agreement isnt an FCA regulated mortgage
As a service, we may consider whether the principles of Plevin should apply to non-PPI 
products where the above rules have also been met. And I can see that our investigator 
previously set this out in her findings. 
Mr and Mrs G have made a number of arguments as to why they think the principles of 
Plevin should apply to their compliant  including that they paid the plans premiums by 
credit card. I appreciate the points they have raised here, and I can see Mr and Mrs G feel 
very strongly about their position. But I cannot circumvent the rules that are already in place 
or apply the principles of Plevin where those rules are not met. 
In the circumstances of this case, Mr and Mrs Gs accidental death plan wasnt sold 
alongside a credit agreement, which includes it not being sold alongside the credit card that 
they used to pay their premiums. So although I am aware this may further disappoint 
Mr and Mrs G, I am not persuaded that the principles of Plevin apply to their complaint.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs G think Stonebridge should have told them about any 
commission related aspects of the policy when it was sold. But I am not aware of any 
requirements that meant Stonebridge was obligated to disclose that information to Mr and 
Mrs G at the time. And so, although I fully appreciate their concerns, I cant fairly conclude 
that Stonebridge acted unreasonably here either.
Separate to the above, Mr and Mrs G have also complained about a lack of information 
being provided by Stonebridge. In 2014 an FCA investigation led to Stonebridge carrying out 
an independent review of its past sales, and contacting affected customers to determine 
whether they should be compensated for some of the issues that the FCA had found. 
Stonebridge wrote to Mr and Mrs G at that time, and explained, Following an investigation 
by the UK Regulator the Financial Conduct Authority and an internal review of our sales 
procedures, we believe our service to you could have been better.
Mr and Mrs G have said that Stonebridge should have provided more information about the 
FCAs investigation and that, had it done so, they may have chosen to take different action 
such as cancelling their plan sooner. 
Again, I appreciate Mr and Mrs Gs frustration here, but there was no requirement by the 
FCA for Stonebridge to provide further information about the investigation that had taken 
place. The findings of the investigation were available on the FCAs website, meaning 
information about it was readily available to the public, including Mr and Mrs G. And so given 
there was no specific requirement for Stonebridge to provide information about the FCAs 
investigation, Im not persuaded that I can fairly conclude it needed to have provided more. I realise that Mr and Mrs G will likely be disappointed by my findings. But for the reasons I 
have given above I will not be directing Stonebridge International Insurance Ltd to do 
anything further in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman