DRN-3979823
The complaint
Mr & Mrs M complain that Brewin Dolphin Limited made an error that meant they both 
missed out on their ISA allowance for tax year 2018/19 for £20,000 each. They ask to be 
compensated for the term they would have held this element of their investment within a tax-
free wrapper.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity, I 
repeat it here.
Mr & Mrs M invested a significant sum of money with Brewin Dolphin. The intention was to 
utilise both their 2018-19 ISA allowances and for subsequent years.
Brewin Dolphin confirmed the accounts had been opened as instructed but it subsequently 
came to light that the ISA investment had not been completed. By the time Mr & Mrs M were 
aware it was too late to utilise the allowance for the tax year 2018-19.
Mr & Mrs M complained as they are very unhappy with the failure to utilise their ISA 
allowances and feel this will affect them financially for many years to come. They were 
extremely disappointed that Brewin Dolphin didnt contact them or their adviser beforehand 
to make them aware.
Brewin Dolphin said it received the application and cheque on 1 April 2019 but due to the 
timing of the cheque being received, it wasnt possible for the funds to clear before the end 
of the tax year, so they were unable to use their 2018/19 allowances. It said it didnt agree it 
had caused a delay and so didnt uphold the complaint initially.
However, Brewin Dolphin reviewed its files and the relevant HMRC guidance and as a result 
changed its position. It concluded it could have subscribed to Mr & Mrs Ms ISAs for the tax 
year 2018/19. This is because HMRC rules allow the subscription date to be the date a 
cheque is accepted, as long as the cheque subsequently clears.
It accepted that due to its error, a proportion of both Mr & Mrs Ms assets are outside of the 
tax-free wrapper an ISA provides. Due to the time elapsed it is unable to backdate the 
subscriptions and have instead offered to compensate Mr and Mrs M for this.
Brewin Dolphin calculated the potential tax liability both Mr & Mrs M will face over a ten-year 
period using this services approach to compensating missed ISA subscriptions. These 
calculations result in a potential tax liability of £1,375 each (based on both parties being 
basic rate taxpayers). Brewin Dolphin agreed to pay this amount and a further amount of 
£250 each in recognition of the trouble and upset this matter has caused. 
In his first view our investigator concluded this was in line with our approach to resolving 
complaints where ISA subscriptions have been missed and as such was a fair and 
reasonable approach to putting things right.
Mr & Mrs M disagreed.
They were not prepared to accept Brewin Dolphins offer as they didnt feel it fairly 
compensates them for the loss of their ISA allowances. Mr M said he was a higher rate 
taxpayer at the time of the error and has provided evidence theyll be able to utilise their ISA 
allowance for much longer than the ten-year period the offer has been calculated using.
Mr & Mrs M also provided a spreadsheet from their accountant demonstrating how they felt 
this lost opportunity would affect them financially for many years to come.
The investigator reconsidered the information provided and suggested to Brewin Dolphin 
that a term of 20 years would be more appropriate in calculating the lost tax benefits.
Following further discussions, Brewin Dolphin offered to recalculate the loss over a 20-year 
term. In summary this increased the offer to £2,750 for the lost opportunity and £250 each 
for the trouble and upset. This meant the revised offer was a total of £6000.
Mr & Mrs M remained dissatisfied.
In summary they said:
Mr M was a higher rate taxpayer, and the calculation should reflect this
Mr & Mrs M did not consider the 20-year term to be sufficient reflection of the 
investment term and therefore the impact the missed opportunity to shield this 
element of their investment from taxation would have
Mr & Mrs M are utilising most of their CGT allowance from other investments and 
there is little or no scope to incorporate the capital gains from the £40,000 within 
their allowance.
They do not accept £250 is a fair reflection of the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused for the last three years.
They asked for an ombudsmans review.
In my provisional findings, I said what I had to decide in this case is the financial loss that Mr 
& Mrs M have/are likely to incur because of the error Brewin Dolphin has acknowledged it 
has made. Its no longer in dispute that Mr & Mrs Ms £40,000 deposit ought to have been 
protected from tax inside an ISA wrapper. What is in dispute, is how to put things right. 
I explained in cases where an ISA subscription has been missed this service has a 
published approach to redress. It is always difficult to quantify future loss as there are many 
differentials that could apply. This service adopts an approach that seeks fairness to both 
parties.
I pointed out the position that has been put forward by all parties at this point doesnt follow 
our published guidance. And, aside from the length of time Mr & Mrs M wouldve held the 
investment for, I said I could see no reason to depart from the guidance. To clarify, the issue 
that Mr & Mrs M face is that any growth of the £40,000 investment they made will now be 
subject to CGT. Especially because its clear from the evidence that both Mr & Mrs M are 
able to, and do, fully fund their ISA allowance each year. This means there isnt space to 
absorb the £40,000 into their ongoing ISA subscriptions. I explained In cases like this we 
make the following assumptions:
1. Any charges on holding the investment outside the ISA will not be significantly different 
from those that would have applied if it had been held within an ISA 
2. Mr & Mrs M will pay tax on the investment at the highest rate applicable to them
3. Mr & Mrs Ms tax position will remain unchanged for as long as they hold the investment 
4. The tax position of the investment will remain unchanged while they hold it
5. If the investment pays dividend distributions, it will return 7.5% each year (made up of 5% 
growth and 2.5% dividend) 
6. If the investment pays interest distributions, it will return 6% each year (made up of 1% 
growth and 5% interest) 
7. If the investment doesnt pay either interest or dividends (e.g., growth stocks), it will grow 
at 7.5% each year 
8. The investment will be held for 10 years before it is sold.I explained at this point that Mr & Mrs Ms investment remains invested, but not within the 
ISA wrapper and so I am considering the impact of the potential tax liability only.
I said I was persuaded by the evidence suggesting both Mr & Mrs M will more likely than not 
invest their full ISA allowances for at least the next 20 years and that Mr Ms redress 
calculations should be based on the assumption he will be a higher rate taxpayer.
I reached my determination regarding Mr Ms tax status based upon the information that for 
the four years preceding the investment and the tax year 2018-19 alongside the following 
two years, Mr M was a high-rate taxpayer. He has explained a change in business objectives 
has resulted in the 21/22 tax year him being a basic tax rate taxpayer but is confident in the 
coming year that may change subject to business performance and investment income. On 
balance, I said I was inclined to agree with him. 
The redress is to ensure that Mr & Mrs M dont lose out when they sell their investment as if 
it was inside the ISA wrapper, they wouldnt pay any CGT. Ordinarily we expect investments 
to be sold after 10 years. However, Mr & Mrs M are in their mid-forties and own their own 
business. I think its very likely theyd have no reason to cash in these investments for many 
years to come. Mr M has said they would hold their investments for 30 or 40 years. I think 
this is too long a time period to suggest. 
I said I was persuaded that extending the assumed period to 20 years felt like a reasonable 
compromise between our usual approach and what Mr and Mrs M have proposed. It is, of 
course, impossible to say precisely when the £40,000 would leave the ISA but given what Mr 
and Mrs M have evidenced about their financial circumstances, Im persuaded its likely to 
have remained in the ISA for significantly longer than 10 years. So, it follows that I think we 
should use the assumption of 20 years when calculating what they have lost out on in the 
circumstances of this case. Other than this, I see no reason to depart from our usual 
approach.
I said I appreciated Mr M spoke with our investigator about the historic performance of the 
fund. I have listened to the telephone calls. But as our investigator mentioned historic 
performance isnt a guarantee of future performance and were looking over a very long 
timescale here. So, I dont think its enough to depart from our usual approach of using a 
return of 7.5% (5% growth and 2.5% dividend in this particular case). But I am of the view 
this should be calculated on a compound basis.
So, although I am in agreement that a 20-year term should be used, and the calculations 
should assume Mrs M to be a basic rate taxpayer and Mr a higher rate taxpayer, I reached a 
different conclusion, to that of our investigator, with regard to redress for the trouble and 
upset this matter has caused.
From what I can see this error could have been corrected far more swiftly than it was. The 
HMRC guidance was readily available and had Brewin Dolphin acted with more focus it is 
possible the ISA subscription could have been backdated.
Instead, this matter has dragged on for more than three years, and it took a considerable 
amount of time for Brewin Dolphin to acknowledge this was its error entirely.
Mr & Mrs M have explained the trouble and upset, sleepless nights and the amount of time 
and effort this matter has caused as they have sought to have this error corrected. Mr M is 
also right to point out there are different levels this service can apply when awarding redress 
for distress and inconvenience.I said I didnt agree that £250 is a fair reflection of the trouble and upset here, and so I asked 
Brewin Dolphin to increase this to £750 each which Im persuaded is a fairer reflection of the 
impact this error has had on both Mr & Mrs M for a significant period of time. 
I said I intended to direct Brewin Dolphin Limited to calculate the potential loss that Mr & Mrs 
M may incur due to its error which led to £20,000 being held outside of each of their ISAs. To 
do so Brewin Dolphin should use the following assumptions: 
1. Any charges on holding the investment outside the ISA will not be significantly different 
from those that would have applied if it had been held within an ISA 
2. Mr & Mrs M will pay tax on the investment at the highest rate applicable to each of them. 
In this case an assumption of basic rate tax should be used for Mrs M and higher rate tax for 
Mr M
3. In both cases the tax position will remain unchanged for the assumed period of 20 years.
4. The tax position of the investment will remain unchanged.
5. If the investment pays dividend distributions, it will return 7.5% each compounded year 
(made up of 5% growth and 2.5% dividend) 
6. Pay Mr & Mrs M £750 each for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
I gave each party the opportunity to provide any further submissions they wished me to 
consider before making my final decision. 
Brewin Dolphin accepted my provisional findings.
Mr & Mrs M expressed gratitude for the detailed response but didnt feel the redress went far 
enough. They said:
The 20-year basis of the calculation for redress felt arbitrary and they had provided 
significant evidence to suggest the term should be longer.
They were concerned about Brewin Dolphin being allowed to carry out the 
calculations and how would they know if they were correct
It had been four years since the error and they feel further interest should be added, 
not least to counter the effects of inflation
They wanted consideration to be given to their accountancy fees
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent been provided with any additional evidence that alters my view and 
so it follows my final decision will be in line with my provisional findings. But I will provide 
some further clarity to Mr & Mrs M.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr & Mrs M and by Brewin Dolphin. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
I understand why Mr & Mrs M find it entirely reasonable that a 20-year term may not actually 
reflect the time they intend to leave these funds invested, but equally there is not easy way 
to determine and appropriate timescale. The standard used by this service is 10 years, but I 
have been persuaded by testimony that this should be increased to a 20-year term. As I 
have said it isnt role of this service to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that 
is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, this service looks to resolve individual 
complaints between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone 
wrong we would ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is 
possible, in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. The 20-year 
term will take Mr & Mrs M much nearer to normal retirement age and it feels a fair and 
reasonable approach in considering when the funds may usually be realised. Of course, 
thats not to say Mr & Mrs M will realise the funds at that time, but equally they could realise 
them much earlier for any number of unforeseen circumstances. 
I acknowledge the length of time that has taken to settle this complaint and the toll this has 
taken, as clearly described by Mr & Mrs M. Its also fair to say our awards for trouble and 
upset are relatively modest, again reflecting the fact this is a free service and alternative to 
the courts. So, I have considered the impact of the delays on Mr & Mrs M, and this has been 
reflected in an increased award for trouble and upset. In terms of an interest payment to 
counter the impact of inflation, there is an interest payment  the 7.5% - over the last four 
years and going forward for another 16 years, which as I have said I believe to be a fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also appreciate Mr & Mrs M chose to ask their accountant to project a potential loss for 
them, but I cant fairly hold Brewin Dolphin responsible for those costs, as it was choice on 
their part rather than a necessity in the settlement of this complaint.
In terms of Brewin Dolphin being asked to calculate the redress, this is standard practice and 
the calculation assumptions have been specified within my decision. So, whilst I understand 
Mr & Mrs M may have lost confidence in Brewin Dolphin, it is a mistake they have made and 
so one which they must put right. If however, Mr & Mrs M felt further errors had been made 
within the calculation they would be able to bring the matter back to this service.
I hope this decision finally settles this matter and provides reassurance to Mr & Mrs M about 
the redress required and the manner in which the calculations should be carried out.
Putting things right
I direct Brewin Dolphin Limited to calculate the potential loss that Mr & Mrs M may incur due 
to its error which led to £20,000 being held outside of each of their ISAs. To do so Brewin 
Dolphin should use the following assumptions: 
1. Any charges on holding the investment outside the ISA will not be significantly different 
from those that would have applied if it had been held within an ISA 
2. Mr & Mrs M will pay tax on the investment at the highest rate applicable to each of them. 
In this case an assumption of basic rate tax should be used for Mrs M and higher rate tax for 
Mr M
3. In both cases the tax position will remain unchanged for the assumed period of 20 years.
4. The tax position of the investment will remain unchanged.
5. If the investment pays dividend distributions, it will return 7.5% each compounded year 
(made up of 5% growth and 2.5% dividend) 
6. Pay Mr & Mrs M £750 each for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Brewin Dolphin Limited to 
undertake the redress as detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman