DRN-2630709
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint concerns a delay in the receipt of his investment statement from Scottish 
Widows Limited (trading as Halifax). 
What happened
Mr H was due to receive a statement for his Personal Investment Plan in early March 2020. 
However, it didnt arrive until 21 March 2020. Mr H then decided to surrender his investment 
but by this time the price had fallen. He feels that Halifax should compensate him for the loss 
of around £900 he says he incurred as a result of the delay.
Mr H made a complaint to Halifax and it was upheld in part. Halifax offered Mr H £200 for the 
trouble and upset caused by various problems with communication over the period in 
question and to reflect the fact that Mr H said he been told in a phone call that the delay in 
the receipt of the statement was due to production problems because the statement was a 
new format. It also added £8 to compensate for the cost of some phone calls. 
But Halifax didnt feel it should be held responsible for any loss as Mr H couldve checked 
the price of his investment and initiated a sale at any time without having to wait for the 
statement. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusions as Halifax. He didnt think it was clear that the delay in receipt of the statement 
was due to a failure on the part of Halifax. And he agreed that Mr H could in any event have 
taken steps to sell sooner if hed been concerned with a fall in price. 
The investigator also noted that Mr H had been unhappy with the time taken for him to 
receive the proceeds of the sale. He said that Halifax had used the price on the day after 
receipt of the sale request, which was in line with its terms. But he did think there was a 
potential delay of two days in the proceeds reaching Mr H. He said that if Mr H could 
demonstrate that this had caused him a loss in respect of re-investment, then Halifax would 
look at addressing this.
Overall, the investigator felt that the offer made by Halifax was fair in the circumstances, so 
didnt recommend anything else be done. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view. He didnt feel that it was his responsibility to track 
his investments performance and that it was reasonable for him to rely on the statement. He 
reiterated that he felt the loss should be made good and that Halifax had failed to provide a 
good service overall, for instance by failing to send a copy of the breakdown of the 
investment surrender value.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matters been referred to me 
to review. 
     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I can understand it wouldve been frustrating for Mr H to not have received his statement as 
expected, and then to experience further problems when following up the matter with Halifax. 
But in all the circumstances, I think its offer to pay him a total of £208 to compensate for the 
issues is fair and reasonable. 
The main reason for Mr H not accepting Halifaxs offer is that he feels more is due to him in 
respect of the perceived loss incurred by him not selling the investment sooner. But, as the 
investigator said, I dont think that delay in receipt of the statement can reasonably be said to 
have caused Mr H such a loss. 
There was nothing preventing him from checking the price of the investment at any time and 
making a request to sell. Mr H has confirmed that he knew how to do this, and Halifax has 
confirmed that its phone lines wouldve been in service to be able to accept such an 
instruction. 
Mr H has said that its not his responsibility to track the value of the investment  rather he 
should be able to rely upon Halifax to provide statements in a timely fashion  but I dont 
agree. Whatever the reason for the statement not arriving sooner and it hasnt been shown 
that this was definitely the result of a failure on the part of Halifax  Mr H wouldve been 
aware that he didnt have the statement and if hed been concerned about the price and a 
possible fall in value, he couldve taken action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman