DRN-3017920
The complaint
Mr M complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading 
as Mercedes Benz Financial Services (MBFS) have asked him to pay to refurbish a car he 
was returning at the end of a lease.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr M responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). Whilst companies may have their own standards I 
think the fairest approach, and one this service takes, is to consider damage against 
this industry standard. 
Mr M accepts most of the refurbishment charges that have been levied but he 
disputes the charge MBFS have made for the damaged headlight. Ive therefore only 
considered that damage in this decision.
Ive considered the photograph of the damage provided by the inspector who 
reviewed and collected the car. The BVRLA guidance says All lamps and lamp units 
must work. Minor scuff marks or scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable. Holes or 
cracks in the glass or plastic covers of lamp units are not acceptable. There are 
cracks in the glass so I think the damage is beyond what would be considered fair 
wear and tear.
Mr M says that the cracks are internal but the BVRLA guidance doesnt distinguish 
between internal and external cracks and so Im unable to say MBFS have been 
unreasonable when making a charge.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman