DRN-3424629
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
(EDL) was irresponsible to have agreed credit for her.
What happened
EDL provided Mrs S with a loan of £2,000 in September 2019. The total amount of 
£3,870, including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of 
£161 (figures rounded). I understand that the loan has been repaid.
Mrs S says that EDL was irresponsible to lend to her because she didnt have any 
money left each month and had to ask her family for help to meet her repayments.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ss complaint and recommended that it be 
upheld. They found that EDL had been irresponsible when it agreed to lend to Mrs S 
because it should have seen from the information it had that she was having problems 
managing her existing debts, and so more credit was likely to cause her further problems.
EDL didnt accept this recommendation. It said that it had discussed Mrs Ss existing 
credit commitments with her and its loan was to be used for consolidation. It also said Mrs 
S was managing her finances well, for example she was not using an overdraft facility, 
her account was always in credit, and her savings account had a healthy balance. EDL 
asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 March 2022 explaining why I thought Mrs Ss 
complaint should be upheld. Mrs S agreed with my decision and EDL responded to say it 
had nothing further for me to consider. This is my final decision on this complaint and will 
be legally binding for both parties should Mrs S accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As mentioned Mrs S agreed with my provisional decision and continued to send us 
information following this. Having reviewed everything, my provisional conclusion remain 
unchanged. As before, I have concluded that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld and I will 
set out my reasoning again here. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, EDL will be aware of the relevant regulations so I 
will briefly summarise. EDL needed to check that Mrs S could afford to meet her 
repayments out of her usual means without having to borrow further, without missing any 
of her existing obligations and without experiencing significant adverse impacts. EDL was 
required to take reasonable steps to estimate Mrs Ss income and (non-discretionary) 
expenditure, and to estimate any reductions in income where it was reasonably 
foreseeable that a reduction was likely. EDL also needed to have regard to any 
information of which it was aware at the time that might have indicated that Mrs S was in, 
had recently experienced or was likely to experience, financial difficulties.
The overarching requirement was that EDL needed to pay due regard to Mrs Ss 
interests and treat her fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this 
requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are 
unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, 
disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did EDL complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Ss application to satisfy itself that she 
would be able to make her repayments without experiencing adverse 
consequences? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown 
and, ultimately, did EDL make a fair lending decision?
EDL provided this Service with copies of the information it relied on in making its 
lending decision. This included information about Mrs Ss income and expenditure, a 
check on her credit file, and payslips and bank statements for her sole current account 
and joint savings account. Having reviewed these I think that the assessment EDL 
carried out was proportionate to the circumstances.
However, this doesnt automatically mean EDLs lending decision was fair. In fact, as I will 
explain below, Ive concluded that EDLs decision to lend wasnt fair on this occasion. EDL 
could see from the information it gathered that Mrs S wasnt managing to meet her 
existing commitments without difficulty and that agreeing this loan was likely to add to her 
debts and lead to adverse consequences for her.
Mrs S was earning approximately £2,040 a month comprising income and child benefit. 
EDL relied on data from the Office of National Statistics to estimate Mrs Ss monthly 
outgoings at £820. It used her credit file data to estimate that she was spending about 
£665 on repaying existing credit commitments (excluding a recent short term loan) and 
concluded that Mrs S had a monthly surplus of about £550.
Ive noted that Mrs Ss outgoings came to more than the £820 EDL estimated. Her 
bank statements from the month of July 2019, for example, show spending of about 
£1,150 on food, insurance, petrol, and mobile bills. This doesnt include other retail 
spending.
Mrs S told EDL she wished to consolidate a short term loan and her credit card 
balances. I can see from EDLs assessment that these debts came to under £2,200. 
The assessment also shows that Mrs S would continue to pay about £620 a month on 
her other commitments, or about £780 including this new loan. In other words Mrs S 
would need to spend more than a third of her income each month to meet her ongoing 
debt repayments.
Altogether, I think EDL ought to have been concerned about Mrs Ss ability to meet 
her repayments out of her existing means over the term of the agreement.
EDL says that Mrs S had a healthy balance in a savings account and while I can see 
many transfers back and forth between Mrs Ss sole bank account and her joint savings 
account, its clear to me that she was using this as a means of managing her money. 
The savings account statement covers about four months from May to August 2019 and 
the balance decreased to zero three times in this period. So I dont think Mrs S had 
access to an accumulated savings capital to help her meet her loan repayments.
EDL also knew that some of Mrs Ss existing debts were being paid through a third-party debt collector, which suggests that she had problems meeting these. EDL says that it 
asked Mrs S about this and she said that these money problems stemmed from a period 
where she couldnt work due to ill health. However, EDL also knew that Mrs S was 
borrowing from short term lenders. The bank statements it had showed Mrs S borrowed 
£2,500 from Lender A (10 July) and used most of this to repay Lender B (12 July). She 
had borrowed again from Lender B on 26 July and said she would use some of the money 
from EDL to repay this lender. So I dont think EDL could reasonably accept that Mrs Ss 
financial difficulties were behind her. It seems to me her difficulties were ongoing.
Having considered everything carefully, I am satisfied that EDL had enough information 
about Mrs Ss circumstances, including her level of existing debt and the problems she 
had managing this, that it should not have agreed to lend to her on this occasion. It 
wasnt likely that Mrs S would be able to meet her repayments over the term of the loan 
without getting into further financial difficulty.
I understand that Mrs S did meet her repayments on this loan, but this doesnt 
automatically mean she managed to do so without difficulty. Mrs S explained that she had 
to rely on money from her family to help with her finances, and shes provided bank 
statements from after the loan was taken out which show personal deposits into her bank 
account. Mrs S also says her husband took out a loan to assist her. She provided screen 
shots of her online credit file which she says shows the loan her husband guaranteed  
this was for £7,000 taken out the month before EDLs loan. Mrs S also told us that she took 
out a credit card in early 2020, which was also evidenced by a screen shot from her credit 
file. 
Altogether, I think that EDL was irresponsible when it agreed to lend to Mrs S in 
September 2019 and that it needs to take steps to put things right for her.
Putting things right
Mrs S had the benefit of the money she borrowed so I think its right that she repays this. 
However, I dont think she should be liable for any interest or charges associated with the 
loan as it was unfairly given. In order to put things right for Mrs S, EDL needs to:
a) Refund to Mrs S all payments she made above the amount of £2,000 she 
borrowed; and
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mrs Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mrs Ss complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans and require it to put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman