DRN-2886465
The complaint
Ms G complains that a cheque for £10,000 wasnt credited to her Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc
(BoI) account.
What happened
Ms G paid a cheque into her account for £10,000 on 9 November 2020 which was a
payment from her late mothers estate whom had passed away in September 2020. Ms G
says she was concerned that the money hadnt reached her account and made a telephone
call on 17 November 2020 to find out what had happened. She says the worry about not
knowing where the money was caused her health to suffer and caused stress. Ms G says
the money was paid back to her brother on 27 January 2021 and says the compensation
paid by BoI doesnt go far enough.
BoI says the cheque was sent to it but cant say what then took place. It says Ms G could
have raised the issue with the bank that issued the cheque but has apologised and paid
£150 compensation.
Ms G brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator
thought BoI had paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount but thought it should pay
interest on the money for the time Ms G was without it.
BoI disagreed with that view and in summary says Ms Gs complaint wasnt about lost
interest which would have been about £14 in any event. And says it paid appropriate
compensation. It says it would only pay interest on cleared funds and this cheque wasnt
processed.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said that BoIs compensation offer doesnt go far enough. 
I said there was no real issue here that Ms G deposited the cheque for £10,000. I was 
satisfied that whatever took place after that wasnt Ms Gs fault and that it appears the 
cheque was sent to BoI for processing. I was also satisfied that the cheque was for a 
significant amount of money and was from Ms Gs mothers estate. I had no doubt Ms G 
would have been extremely worried about the money and that the cheque had been lost at 
what would have been an extremely difficult time for her following her mothers passing away 
some two months before.
I could see that Ms G made a number of attempts to find out where the money was and
attended the branch where the cheque was deposited and wrote a number of letters to BoI. I
also thought it took about two months for the money to be returned to Ms Gs brother which
suggested the cheque had been cashed somehow.
I appreciated BoI had apologised for what took place and had difficulties tracing the cheque
as it wouldnt have had the cheque details. But I also thought it was responsible for the 
cheque and for what took place, which meant Ms G was without her money and wouldnt 
have known where the cheque was. I thought that as a result of what took place that Ms G 
was unable to use the money and earn interest on that money. I appreciated BoI says it 
shouldnt pay interest, but I thought what took place did impact on Ms Gs ability to earn 
interest regardless of the amount of that interest.
Overall my provisional view was that Ms G suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of
what took place and that it took over two months for matters to be sorted out. I accepted BoI
wasnt directly responsible for that time period but if it hadnt lost the cheque then that delay
wouldnt have occurred. I thought BoI should pay a total of £200 compensation which I 
thought reflected the amount of money involved, that it was from Ms Gs late mother and the 
time taken to sort out. I said that award also reflects the impact on Ms Gs health and takes 
into account any lost interest.
I said I hope Ms G would be able to confirm if the £10,000 left her brothers account and was 
credited in January 2021 as she suggests. And also confirm if she now has the £10,000.
Ms G accepts my decision but hasnt provided the further information I hoped she would 
provide and BoI doesnt wish to make further representations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. 
Putting things right
BoI should pay £200 compensation in total. It appears BoI has paid £150 compensation to 
Ms G.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay Ms 
G a further £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman