DRN-1766641
The complaint
Ms As complaint is about five instalment loans she took with Gain Credit LLC  trading as 
Lending Stream. She says these loans were unaffordable. 
What happened
The loans were taken out between April and August 2018. A summary of Ms As borrowing 
history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Max 
Repayment
1 18/04/2018 Outstanding 6 £200.00 £72.64
2 01/06/2018 Outstanding 6 £770.00 £403.10
3 27/06/2018 Outstanding 6 £210.00 £451.82
4 02/07/2018 Outstanding 6 £90.00 £491.29
5 02/08/2018 Outstanding 6 £160.00 £520.73
Ms As complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think there was 
anything in the information Lending Stream had asked Ms A to provide that should have 
prompted it to do more checks for loans 1 to 3. So, the adjudicator couldnt say Lending 
Stream was wrong to have given these loans to Ms A. However, they did think that loans 4 
and 5 shouldnt have been lent as the adjudicator thought at this point Ms A was showing 
signs of struggling to manage her money. 
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. But Ms A disagreed because she didnt 
think Lending Streams checks went far enough from loan 2 onwards. Ms A asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed, so it was passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms A could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Ms A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms As complaint. Our adjudicator upheld loans 4 and 5. Lending 
Stream agreed with our adjudicators assessment. As Lending Stream has agreed with our 
assessment and Ms A hasnt given anything more for me to think about on these loans, I 
wont make any further findings on them. 
That just leaves loans 1, 2 and 3 to consider. Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators view 
because she thought Lending Streams checks didnt go far enough. It should have been 
aware that she was struggling financially and had a lot of other loans with short-term lenders. 
So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
Lending Stream has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of 
the borrowing. It has said it asked Ms A about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of between £2,338 and £3,000. Lending Stream 
also checked Ms As normal monthly living costs. Ms A declared these to be between £828 
and £943 a month. 
Based on this information, I dont think Lending Stream ought to have increased its checks 
before it lent to Ms A again.   Ms A borrowed all three loans within two months. So, she was very early on in her lending 
relationship with Lending Stream. Even though she had to make monthly repayments and 
the loans over-lapped each other, the highest repayment appeared affordable based on the 
information she declared to Lending Stream. And there wasnt anything in the information Ms 
A provided at the time which would have given Lending Stream cause for concern, so I think 
it was reasonable of Lending Stream to have relied on what Ms A gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Lending Stream to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Lending Stream did before 
lending the loans went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake 
any more in-depth checks. 
I appreciate, from what Ms A has said, the information she declared to Lending Stream at 
the time of the loans may not have been an accurate reflection of her financial 
circumstances. But I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on that information. At this 
stage of the lending relationship, and what Lending Stream knew about Ms A, I wouldnt 
have expected Lending Stream to verify the information Ms A gave it. This therefore means, 
I cant say that Lending Stream did anything wrong in lending Ms A these loans. So, I wont 
be asking Lending Stream to do any more than its already agreed to do. 
Im sorry to hear about Ms As financial difficulties and I appreciate that my findings are likely 
to disappoint her. But I hope my explanation will help her understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Putting things right
As a reminder this is what Lending Stream has agreed to do with regards to loans 4 and 5;
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts, Lending Stream should buy these back if 
it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream cant buy the debts 
back, then Lending Stream should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below.
A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms A towards 
interest, fees and charges on loans 4 and 5, not including anything Lending Stream has 
already refunded.
B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Ms A which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms A originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loans 4 
and 5, and treat any repayments made by Ms A as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on that loan. If this results in Ms A having made overpayments then Lending 
Stream should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint 
is settled. Lending Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and 
move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms A. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms A. Lending 
Stream shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Lending Stream has 
already written-off.E) Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms As credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit LLC to take off tax from this interest. Gain Credit LLC 
must give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I partly uphold Ms As complaint and Gain Credit LLC should put things right as Ive 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman