DRN-1095310
 
The complaint
Mr B, who is represented by a third party, says he was mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a credit card in August 2002. He was sold the policy 
on-line by Egg, but Barclays Bank UK PLC is now responsible for these sales. Ill therefore 
refer mainly to Barclays for consistency.
What happened
Mr B has already been paid some money for the commission Barclays received from selling 
him the PPI. 
Mr B told us that didnt need the policy and wasnt given a choice about taking it out. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Barclays had mis-sold the policy. But because Mr B disagrees, 
the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I dont currently intend to uphold the 
complaint about the mis-sale on the evidence Ive seen. 
Mr B doesnt remember much about the sale. I can sympathise with this because it was quite 
some time ago now. However, he says he didnt need PPI. 
Weve seen quite a few similar sales to this and as a consequence, we have a very good 
understanding of the procedures that were normally used. We know, for example, that 
consumers like Mr B would have had to either agree to, or decline, the PPI when they were 
making their way through the on-line form, before being allowed to finish their credit card 
application. And from what we know there wasnt anything else in the application process to 
make Mr B think he didnt have a choice about taking out the card. 
We no longer have access to Mr Bs actual on-line credit card form, but thats not unusual 
given the type of application and when it took place. Barclays sent us an example of the 
type of web-based application form Mr B would have used when he was applying for his 
card. And because we now know PPI was added to his account, I think its highly likely he 
selected the yes option.
As well as this, Barclays says Mr B would have been sent a welcome letter after hed made 
his application. This thanked him for taking out the card which referred to the PPI hed 
decided to take out. And Ive also seen copies of monthly card statements showing charges for Card Repayment Protection on them. I think if Mr B hadnt ever asked for the PPI he 
would have wanted to know what these charges were for.
So I think theres a lot of evidence that points to Mr B asking for the PPI with his new card 
and being able to see the cover had been set up for him.
This wasnt an advised sale and it was for Mr B to decide for himself whether or not he 
wanted PPI. Barclays duty was to provide clear enough information for him to make an 
informed choice.
Looking at the other aspects, I think at 74p per £100 of the outstanding credit card balance, 
the PPI appears to have been an affordable charge. And whilst Mr B said he already had 
some sick pay with his job, being 6 months at full pay followed by 6 months at half pay, this 
doesnt necessarily make the PPI of no use. It could have reduced his balance by 10% a 
month for up to a year in the event of a successful claim. And if he made a successful claim 
on the policy he also wouldnt have to risk possibly having to dig into his limited savings.
Mr B also told us that he had other insurance cover, for life and critical illness, but this is 
cover intended for a specific scenario rather than just being unable to work. 
It follows that even if I accept Barclays could have been clearer in certain aspects, I dont 
think Mr B would have done anything differently. I think the evidence shows he wanted some 
protection to go with his card. 
This means I dont think Barclays has to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr B. Its already 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to him because when the policy was sold it expected 
to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium). To 
put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium. I think that offer is fair in this case.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman