DRN-3286850
The complaint
Mr W is seeking to recover £89,800 from Barclays Bank UK PLC, which he transferred from 
his bank account as a result of a third-party scam.
What happened
Mr W saw an advert with a company - I will refer to as C - offering a crypto currency 
exchange platform. Mr W says the fact that it was promoted by two famous celebrities, 
endorsed his view C was a legitimate organisation. He told us he checked trust pilot where 
he found mixed reviews. He says he called the number advertised and received a call back. 
He questioned the mixed reviews and asked C directly whether this was legitimate. Mr W 
says C suggested he send a small amount to invest and it would return it to him to show it 
was genuine. On 25 October 2019, Mr W invested £4,300 with a cryptocurrency provider - I 
will refer to as C1. On the 12 November 2019 Mr W received a payment of £4,149.23 which 
he says was the return on his initial payment. Mr W says this convinced him it was all above 
board.
In the introductory email C sent to Mr W, it provided a link to so C could share screens and 
teach Mr W about its trading platform whilst linked to his computer. Mr W then made the 
following payments (where C2 and C3 are two further cryptocurrency providers/brokers):
Date Amount Payment to
13/11/2019 £4,400 C2
13/11/2019 £15,000 C2
05/12/2019 £19,400 C2
28/01/2020 £25,000 C3
29/01/2020 £26,000 C3
Barclays called Mr W to discuss the £15,000 payment to C2 on 13 November 2019 before 
releasing it. In January 2020, Mr W says he was persuaded to take out a loan by the 
scammers for the purpose of making a further investment. Mr W says, C told him the 
investment would be able to cover his loan repayments. 
On 27 January 2020, Mr W received £50,000 into his account from his loan. The following 
day Mr W tried to make payments online to a third cryptocurrency provider C3. Initially 
£50,000 and then, when that failed, he attempted to make two separate transfers. Barclays 
called Mr W again on 28 January 2020 before releasing the £25,000 and £26,000 payments. 
Mr W told us C transferred the money from C2 and C3 to what he believed was a trading 
account with C. He explained that he did have an account with C and was made to believe 
he had control of the account with a log in to a trading platform. He says he was informed he 
could trade using the account. But he now believes this to be a fake account. He says he 
had no access to the C2 and C3 wallets and had no direct access to his money.
Mr W became concerned because C was slow in making the payment from his investment to 
cover his loan repayment and, whilst he did receive one credit of £983.16, a second 
payment was not forthcoming. Eventually, C stopped contacting Mr W.
Mr W complained to Barclays, but Barclays deemed this a buyer/seller dispute as the 
transfers in question were made to legitimate companies. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He felt that Mr W had genuine accounts with 
C2 and C3 and, whilst the third-party C may have had access to those accounts, the money 
was moved from those accounts to the scammer, not directly from his Barclays account. So, 
he didnt think Barclays was at fault. However, the investigator did consider that Barclays 
would still be expected to monitor Mr Ws account for unusual activity. But he felt by the time 
Barclays ought to have intervened, Mr W was under the scammers spell and he considered 
any potential enquiry from the bank would not have deterred him making the payments.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 March 2022, reaching the same overall outcome as 
the investigator but explaining my reasoning in more detail.
Mr W responded to my provisional decision. He said he does not hold Barclays wholly 
responsible and accepts his share of the blame. He feels my report appears to agree that 
both parties are responsible  about 50/50. In terms of the delay in reporting the scam and 
the effect that has had  he says he couldnt have done much more as he wasnt aware of 
the scam until April.  
In terms of being under the spell of the scammers, Mr W feels this wasnt the case at the 
time of the first phone conversation  because he hadnt seen the trades on the fake 
platform and he hadnt seen the investments grow. In between his investments the 
scammers were providing evidence of successful trades, they were making him feel like a 
valued client and therefore when the loan situation arose, he felt much more comfortable 
that he was investing in a legitimate business. If he had been informed at the time of the 
£15,000 investment that he was investing in a potential scam, then he feels its more 
probable he would have pulled out.
Barclays said due to the type of accounts the funds were transferred to unfortunately it would 
not be able to find out when the funds were debited. In some circumstances it can contact 
the beneficiary banks to obtain this information but that is only if they are on the Cifas 
register and these companies are not showing on the register.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered both parties responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, my 
decision remains the same. For completeness, I have set my provisional decision out below 
and addressed the parties arguments within it to form my final decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account:
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice;
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
Barclays deemed this a buyer/seller dispute as the transfers in question were made to 
legitimate companies. I can see the transfers in question were made to genuine 
cryptocurrency providers and I can also see Mr W received some credits back from the 
investments  so I can understand why Barclays might think this is a buyer/seller dispute. 
But there was a third party involved here - C. Its also not uncommon for victims to receive some funds back as part of a scam  in an attempt to reassure them that they are making 
money and dealing with a genuine company and lure them into making further, much larger 
payments.
It seems to me C was not actually making trades/bets with the money received from Mr W 
but simply manipulating its online trading platform to show purported gains in order to 
induce further investments from victims such as Mr W. I am satisfied that C were not 
carrying out legitimate cryptocurrency trades but were instead dishonestly defrauding 
customers. 
I say this because on 15 April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a 
warning that C was offering financial services without authority. This is a potential indicator 
of dishonest intentions. There are other indicators; for example, I can see Mr W was 
encouraged by C to download a link so he could share his screen with C from the outset. 
This would likely have led to C being able to take control of Mr Ws payments. Mr W was 
also encouraged to take out a loan  and to give the reason of home improvements. 
Ultimately C stopped communicating with Mr W and didnt return his money - but he is still 
able to access his fake trading platform. There are also many reviews about C on the 
internet since Mr W made his investment - which suggest there are numerous other victims 
to the same scam. 
It is not in dispute that Mr W authorised the scam payments. Mr W was duped by the 
scammers into instructing the bank to transfer money to two genuine cryptocurrency 
accounts and from there into a fake trading account. The scammers deceived him over email 
and telephone into thinking he was making a legitimate cryptocurrency investment for further 
trading. So, although Mr W did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
As the investigator explained, Mr Ws complaint is not covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). This is because the payments were made to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency seller who transferred the purchased cryptocurrency into an 
account in Mr Ws name. So, because the payment didnt go directly to the scammer from Mr 
Ws Barclays account, its not covered by the CRM Code. 
And it doesnt automatically follow that Barclays is liable for a loss, just because a customer 
is a victim of fraud.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. It is not in dispute that there were fraud triggers in this case because Barclays staff did in 
fact intervene on two occasions. On the first occasion on 13 November 2019, Mr W was 
questioned by a member of staff on the telephone before the transfer was executed. A 
£15,000 payment was unusual and uncharacteristic for him and the account. There had 
been no comparable payments in recent times. Its not clear to me  but it is possible, from 
what the call handler says - that this payment also flagged because the payment was going 
to a cryptocurrency investment. Either way, the staff were right to question Mr W about it. 
So, staff were sufficiently concerned about the payment to ask questions. In other words, 
Barclays had been triggered by unusual or uncharacteristic activity. Accordingly, its a 
question of whether they did enough in all the circumstances. 
Having listened to the call on 13 November 2019, I note Barclays did ask Mr W to confirm 
the transaction was for a new payee and that it was going to C2. They also asked what the 
payment was in regard to and Mr W replied, an investment. The call handler did then go on 
to ask whether Mr W had done any research and whether anyone had used that company 
before. The call handler also asked if Mr W had checked the website for the company the 
payment was going to and whether he had read its risk warning. But I dont think this went 
far enough. Perhaps more significantly  there were no scam or fraud warnings during this 
call. 
In my view, Barclays could and should have done more. I say this because as a financial 
services professional, I think Barclays would have been aware at the time that fraudsters use 
genuine firms offering cryptocurrency as a way of defrauding customers. Cryptocurrency 
scams had been increasing in frequency and both the FCA and Action Fraud had published 
specific warnings about these scams in 2018. In my view, by 2019, Barclays had had time to 
understand these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this 
particular type of fraud.
So, whilst it may have appeared on face value to have been a legitimate payment to a 
legitimate organisation - even though the money appeared to be going somewhere safe or 
on (as it did) from here to the consumers own wallet, I dont think the conversation should 
have stopped there.
Based on the industry warnings at the time, I think Barclays ought to have had a good 
enough understanding of how these scams work  including that consumers often move 
money to a wallet in their own name before moving it on again to the fraudster or (as I 
believe was the case here) the fraudster having control or access to the wallet. 
During the call on 13 November 2019, Mr W gave responses which were not probed further. 
The caller could have asked more about the type of investment as they had  according to 
the internal notes - spotted the payment was to a cryptocurrency provider. They could have 
asked how the customer had been contacted about the investment and whether the 
investment opportunity was linked to a prominent individual or advertised on social media.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr W said my report appeared to be saying both 
parties were responsible here and so the split in liability should be 50/50. But when a 
business makes an error or gets something wrong, I need to think about whether it would 
have made a difference if it had got things right. Ive thought carefully about what is likely to 
have happened if Barclays had asked Mr W probing questions. It is not possible for me to 
know for certain what Mr W would have done. Ive therefore reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances and without the benefit of 
hindsight.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr W says at the time of the first call, he was not 
under the scammers spell  as he had not seen the trades and investments grow at this 
point. Whilst I accept Mr W might not have been so invested in the scam at this point, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, I can see from the chain of messages Mr W had with 
the scammer; Mr W was in contact with the scammer at the time of the call on 13 November 
2019. He was told by the scammer to say the transfer was for an investment. It seems from 
the messages during this call that Mr W was looking to the scammer for advice and willing to 
listen to that advice. So, if Barclays had probed Mr W further, I think it more likely than not 
that Mr W would have continued to turn to the scammer for advice about what to say and 
likely been coached through the process with the bank  rather than take on board anything 
the bank was saying. Consequently, I still think it more likely than not, that further 
questioning would not have unravelled the scam.
I appreciate in my provisional decision, I went on to say that in thinking about what is likely to 
have happened with further questioning, I had also considered the later call Mr W had with 
Barclays - before the £25,000 transfer on 28 January 2020. During this call, Mr W is subject 
to much more questioning and some warnings are given. So, I did say in my provisional 
decision that it did give me some insight into how Mr W would likely have responded to 
further questioning in November 2019. Even if I accept what Mr W has said  that he was 
much more invested at this later stage and I dont rely on his later actions when thinking 
about the first call  Im still not persuaded that further questioning would have unravelled 
the scam for the reasons given in the paragraph above.
The second call is relevant to the later transfers though. During this call, Mr W told Barclays 
the money had come from a loan which was for home improvements. When questioned by 
the call handler about the name of the company C3 and its potential connection with a well-
known cryptocurrency provider, Mr W explained it was the name of the company doing his 
home improvements. The call handler asked how long Mr W had had dealings with the 
company. Mr W replied that they had done bits and bobs for years. The call handler queried 
whether the companys initials started with C3 and Mr W explained it was a local company. 
The call handler then went on to explain that, from the banks side it did look like C3  was 
a cryptocurrency trading platform. He said one concern might be it was connected with a 
scam and that it seems to be a common thing that happens. He also explained that, if it was 
a genuine trading platform, the bank would advise extreme caution anyway. The call handler 
went on to warn Mr W that, if it was connected to a scam, the bank would need to make Mr 
W aware, if its not who he thought it was, there is no guarantee hed get his money back. 
The call handler also explained that, if its connected to a genuine trading platform, they 
need to make him aware if he loses money on the trading platform, he will be liable for the 
loan itself as theres no guarantee he would get his money back.
So, on this occasion Mr W was willing to mislead the bank  by giving a false reason for the 
transaction  in order to proceed with the transaction. I appreciate he may have been told to 
do so by the scammers but I think, in these circumstances, it was more difficult for the bank 
to accurately assess whether or not Mr W was at risk of financial harm so that it could easily 
unravel the scam and/or or break the spell which Mr W was acting under. 
In other words, even if Barclays had carried out further or better questioning in line with the 
banks duty of care, it seems probable that Mr W would have continued with the payment. 
In my provisional decision I went on to think about whether Barclays took reasonable steps 
to recover Mr Ws funds once it was made aware, he was the victim of a scam. I appreciate Mr Ws comments that he couldnt have done much more here. My evaluation was in regard 
to whether the bank had done enough  rather than Mr W. In fact, here, the payments did 
not go directly to the scammer but to two genuine cryptocurrency accounts. So, I dont think 
Barclays was under an obligation to try and retrieve the funds from the scammers/final 
destination bank. Although it seems from its internal notes on 20 May 2020 that Barclays did 
attempt to contact the receiving bank  the genuine cryptocurrency provider - I can see from 
the C2 statements that funds were moved straight away. So, even if there was an 
expectation for the bank to try and recover funds (and I dont think there was here) I still think 
any attempts would unlikely be successful. This was because the first scam payment was 
made in November 2019 and the last in January 2020 and the scam wasnt reported until 
May 2020, over four months later. 
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Mr W. He has put in time and 
effort into his complaint. I do accept he has fallen victim to what can only be described as a 
cruel and callous scam. Im sorry he has lost money and I can understand why he would like 
to be compensated for all his losses. However, despite my natural sympathy for the situation 
he finds himself in ultimately, I dont think intervention from Barclays would have made a 
difference in this case. It therefore follows that I dont think that Barclays refusal to 
reimburse Mr W for these transactions was unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman