DRN-2875365
The complaint
Mr M complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited (HICL) didnt repair his van 
properly when he claimed on is commercial vehicle insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr Ms van was involved in an accident, so he claimed on his policy. HICL accepted the 
claim and repaired Mr Ms van. When Mr M got his van back, he noticed issues with the 
repairs, in particular panels not fitted correctly, non-authentic parts used, wires left dangling 
and additional damage caused while in for repair. Because of this Mr M complained to HICL. 
HICL investigated Mr Ms complaint and upheld it. HICL offered Mr M £1,365 to correct the 
poor repair and fix the additional damage it had caused. It also offered Mr M £235 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience. Mr M didnt think this was good enough 
and brought his complaint here. He said HICL should pay him around £6,000 compensation. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt think HICL had done anything 
wrong using non manufacturer parts, but found the poor quality of repairs was the issue. He 
also found that Mr M had a quote from a garage of his choice to repair his van which came 
to £1,762.50. And since our involvement HICL had agreed to cover this cost and to cover the 
cost of a replacement vehicle, while his was in for repair. Our Investigator didnt think this 
was enough to put things right and also recommended HICL pay Mr M £400 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M didnt agree, he provided a detailed response but in summary said it wasnt fair for 
HICL to use non-manufacturer parts when repairing his van and didnt think the 
compensation was enough when taking into account the depreciation of his van because of 
the claim and the cost of repairs to it, which are recorded on an external database. He also 
said the third-party claim had higher compensation paid so its only fair hes paid more. 
As Mr M disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say for accidental damage it will cover him for the 
loss or damage to his van. They go on to say that in the event of a claim for accidental 
damage where the van isnt a total loss HICL will:
repair the damage at our Approved Repairer, we may decide to use suitable parts or 
accessories which are not supplied by the original manufacturer, or alternatively authorise 
repairs at a repairer of your choice subject to the provision of satisfactory estimates.
Ive therefore looked at whether HICL has done what it was supposed to under the policy. 
When HICL originally repaired Mr Ms van I dont think it did anything wrong by not using 
original manufacturer parts. I say this because the policy terms say it may use parts not 
supplied by the manufacturer and its also not unusual for an insurer to use approved parts 
which arent supplied by the original manufacturer. 
When HICL originally repaired Mr Ms van there were issues with the repairs and additional 
damage caused. HICL tried to correct these but they still werent completed to a satisfactory 
standard. Im therefore not persuaded it did what it was supposed to under the policy as it 
didnt do a lasting and effective repair to Mr Ms van. Ive therefore looked to see if HICLs 
offer to do to put things right is fair and reasonable. 
HICL agreed to pay Mr M the amount quoted by his chosen repairer, to fix the issues with his 
van. As this was produced by a garage of Mr Ms choice and HICL has agreed to cover it, 
Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable resolution to fix the issues with Mr Ms van. HICL 
should therefore pay Mr M the £1,762.50, if it hasnt already done so. HICL also offered to 
provide a courtesy vehicle for Mr M while his is in for repair for these additional faults. I think 
this is a fair and reasonable offer, as this means Mr M wont be without a vehicle while his is 
in for repair, 
However, Im not persuaded the £235 compensation HICL offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is enough. Mr M has had to return his van to the original repairer who 
tried to correct the faults but didnt. He now needs to arrange his own repair and not have 
use of his own van while its in. Because of this I think that £400 compensation for the 
additional unnecessary distress and inconvenience is a fairer amount. 
Ive considered Mr Ms points about why HICL should pay more compensation, but Im not 
satisfied it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I say this 
because while the third partys claim is more expensive than Mr Ms it doesnt mean HICL 
should pay more compensation to him. I understand the third-party claim involved personal 
injury and loss of earnings being paid. But I dont think that means its fair for HICL to pay  
Mr M more. This is because when Mr Ms van goes in for repair HICL have offered to provide 
him another vehicle, this means he shouldnt suffer loss of earnings so it wouldnt be fair to 
direct HICL to pay them. 
Ive also considered Mr Ms point about the claim costs being higher because additional work 
is needed to fix the issues with his van. HICL is obliged to report factually what it pays on 
claims. So, I dont think its done anything wrong if its factually recorded the claim cost. 
However, if Mr M has suffered an increase in premiums because of the difference in the 
costs reported, he would need to submit evidence of that for HICL to consider, as it would be 
a new complaint, and so not one I can deal with here. 
Mr M has also raised concerns about his van being worth less because of the claim. While 
its possible his vans value may be affected if it isnt repaired correctly, its also possible a 
vans value wont be affected if it is repaired correctly and not been deemed a previous total 
loss. As Mr Ms van hasnt been deemed a total loss by HICL and its agreed to pay the cost 
to repair his van properly, Im not persuaded HICL needs to do anymore in relation to this. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Highway 
Insurance Company Limited needs to pay Mr M £1,762.50 to rectify the poor repair to his 
van, and £400 distress and inconvenience if it hasnt already done so.  
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman