DRN-3345287
The complaint
Mr M complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
I Issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 February 2022 setting out how I think 
the complaint should be resolved. I gave both parties until 1 March 2022 to provide any 
further information or evidence they wanted me to consider before issuing a final decision.
The extracts from my provisional decision are below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at 
the time the loans were offered.
L2G is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this 
lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Briefly, it was 
required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that a consumer would be able to repay the 
borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that 
the consumer could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
It was required to gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, they 
did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key 
thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a number of 
different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what was being 
borrowed was due to be repaid.
Did L2G carry out sufficient/proportionate checks?
L2G has provided evidence to show that before lending any of the loans, it searched Mr Ms 
credit file, it asked him about his income and living costs including his regular credit 
commitments. L2G says it verified Mr Ms declared income and expenses for both loans and 
found that Mr Ms expenses were more than he had declared for both loans. It also says its 
checks showed that Mr Ms income for loan 1 was around £1,039 and around £1,162 for loan 2. 
It worked out Mr Ms living costs and credit commitments as £744.83 and £875.53 for each loan 
respectively. L2G says it verified the information through an online tool and using the nationally 
available statistics to estimate Mr Ms expenses. It says it added a 10% buffer to the expenses 
for both loans and based on that Mr M had sufficient disposable income.
I think the checks went far enough for loan 1. This was Mr Ms first loan with L2G, and 
although the results of L2Gs search of his credit file shows he was utilising credit, it didnt 
suggest he was reliant on credit or paying significant portions of his income towards this. And 
so, based on the checks which I think were proportionate, I dont think L2G acted unfairly 
when it lent loan 1.
However, by loan 2, I think L2G should have done more before agreeing to lend here. Mr M was 
returning for another loan within a short time of repaying the previous loan and while he repaid 
the previous loan early, L2Gs system notes suggests there were signs that he may have had 
some trouble doing so. Theres the further question about why Mr M repaid loan 1 within a 
month when he had 18 months to do so. Also, by this stage, the results of the credit search 
show that Mr M was now using more credit and including the repayment of this loan, he was due 
to repay a significant portion of his income towards credit and in my opinion, even without taking 
its checks further, it should have been aware that Mr M would likely struggle to repay this loan 
and this was borne out in the fact that Mr M hasnt been able to maintain his payments for this 
loan.
Overall, L2G wasnt wrong to lend loan 1 but it didnt do enough before making the decision to 
lend loan 2 and had it reacted to what it knew about Mr M, it wouldnt have lent loan 2 and so it 
needs to put things right.
The time to respond has now passed. L2G has said it had nothing further to add and Mr M 
hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the information, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision.
L2G shouldnt have lent Mr M loan 2 and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr M, L2G should;
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 and treat all payments 
Mr M made towards the loan as payments towards the capital amount.
If after doing the above, theres a surplus, then L2G should add 8% interest per 
year to the surplus from the date the payments were made, if they were to the 
date of settlement and refund those to Mr M.
if theres still a balance outstanding then L2G should agree a suitable repayment 
plan with Mr M;
L2G should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a 
result of loan 2.
HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman