DRN-2342492
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr P complain about the settlement offered by esure Insurance Limited following 
a claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A and Mr P contacted esure in February 2020 to report storm damage to their roof under 
their home insurance policy. Mr P said esure told him to go ahead and repair the storm 
damage. And Mr P said he was told he could make permanent repairs rather than just a 
temporary fix. He checked if esure needed photographic evidence and said esure confirmed 
it would pay for scaffolding if required.
Mr P said it took about two weeks for esure to send a surveyor. And by then the repair work 
had already started. The storm had caused falling tiles to damage a flat roof at his property 
and had also caused damage to his neighbours roof. So Mr P wanted esure to pay for those 
repairs as well.
But the amount esure offered was considerably less than the amount he paid his contractor 
for the repairs. And his contractor said more of the repaired damage shouldve been treated 
as storm damage. So Mr P wants esure to reconsider the amount its offered towards the 
claim.
After reviewing the surveyors report esure said it hadnt seen anything that suggested the 
amount offered was unfair. Its report didnt show any damage to the flat roof. And it wouldnt 
cover any damage to his neighbours property unless Mr P was negligent in some way. But 
that didnt seem to be the case. If Mr P was able to provide evidence showing more damage 
than indicated by the surveyor it would look at things again.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with esures response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He felt Mr P understood from the inspection what 
damage would be covered. Mr P had been paid just under £1200 by esure but wanted to 
claim significantly more. And hed proceeded to have a whole new roof fitted and pay for the 
neighbours roof to be renewed. So the contractors invoice was over £13000.
Our investigator said he couldnt say esure had acted unfairly or unreasonably. Itd based its 
payment on the evidence presented by its appointed surveyors. And he wouldnt expect 
esure to cover damage to a third party as it wasnt part of the terms of the policy. So he 
couldnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P didnt agree. He said the appointed contractor had visited after the repairs had already 
been partially completed. And hed sent an invoice clearly splitting his contractors costs for 
storm and non-storm damage. Hed been told the cracks in the flat roof had been caused by 
ridge tiles displaced by the storm. And he felt esure should cover more of the costs hed 
incurred.
So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked very carefully at everything Mr P and esure have said to see if esure has done 
anything wrong. And if so what it needs to do to put things right. Having done so Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same reasons. 
According to esures records Mr P reported the claim on 12 February. In the section what 
we will do the home insurance policy says for larger claims esure will arrange for a claims 
adviser, restoration company, building surveyor, investigator or supplier to come out and visit 
you as soon as possible.
If a claim is being made against an insurance policy its important the insurer is able to 
inspect the damage or be provided with sufficient evidence to make a reasonable 
assessment of the damage. I can see an appointment for the surveyor to assess the 
damage was made for 25 February.
I appreciate any house owner suffering roof damage would be keen to get repairs completed 
quickly. And I can see esures notes say Mr P was advised to take plenty of photographs to 
show the surveyor as he seemed keen to press on with the repairs immediately.
I realise Mr P says he felt esure told him he could go ahead and get the repairs done. But I 
think he was aware that some of the damage might not be covered by his home insurance 
policy. And when Mr P spoke to his contractor on 13 February he confirmed esure required 
an itemised bill and photographs for any work that could be claimed for. 
Mr P also asked the contractor to replace his neighbours tiles as part of the work. And he 
asked for some tiles to be reset above the porch and garage and for a waste water pipe and 
vent to be looked at.
When esures surveyor arrived to assess the damage on 25 February the repair work was 
already underway. The surveyor agreed damage had occurred to a section of the roof. But 
the surveyor scoped the work at a significantly smaller cost. 
Although he felt part of the roof had been damaged by the storm, scaffolding surrounded the 
property and the whole roof seemed to have been replaced. The surveyor felt part of the 
damage being repaired was the result of deterioration or due to previous poor workmanship. 
And that wouldnt be covered by Mr Ps home insurance policy. 
Mr P had also asked the contractor to repair damage to his neighbours roof. I realise Mr P 
may have felt responsible if something had fallen from his roof and damaged his neighbours 
property. But esure wouldnt cover damage to his neighbours property unless Mr P had 
been negligent in some way. And there was nothing to suggest that was the case. 
After reviewing the surveyors report and Mr Ps photographs, esure agreed to cover 
damage to about 2 sq m of roof tiles along with some ridges and part of the scaffolding cost. 
And esure agreed to increase the payment to include a vent pipe where it wasnt sure 
whether the damage was age-related or had been caused by the storm. In total esures 
increased offer amounted to just over £1300 plus VAT. 
Mr P thinks esure should increase the amount its paid to around £4500. He says his 
contractor felt the first six items of his invoice were the result of storm damage and should be 
covered by the home insurance policy. 
But based on what Ive seen I cant say esure has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I think 
esure is entitled to rely on the opinion of its appointed surveyor. And it doesnt believe the 
photographs provided by Mr P show any other damage has occurred that would be covered 
by the home insurance policy. I know this isnt the outcome Mrs A and Mr P were hoping for. 
But I wont be asking esure to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman