DRN-3018177
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected their claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs S bought solar panels for their home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr 
and Mrs S into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr and Mrs S, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would 
provide over the term of the loan. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual 
performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Ikano 
accepted this and asked for information to allow it to calculate the settlement. 
However, because Ikano has not done this within a reasonable time Ive been asked to issue 
this decision to confirm what it must do. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Ikano has accepted that there was a misrepresentation and what it must do to put things 
right. As such, Ive set out below what it must do to put things right.
  
Putting things right
Ikano should recalculate the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and 
income to Mr and Mrs S from the solar panels over the term of the loan so they pay no more 
than that, and Mr and Mrs S keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the 
loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs S are paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have, then Ikano needs to reimburse them accordingly. Should the calculation 
show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should 
be shared with Mr and Mrs S by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, Ikano should 
restructure Mr and Mrs Ss loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs S in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs S have the following options as to 
how they would like their overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs S and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs S and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs S accepts my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept.
If Mr and Mrs S have settled the loan, Ikano should pay them the difference between what 
they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mr and Mrs S has settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Ikano, and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs S paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs S receive their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs S paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs S receive their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs S first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ikano Bank AB (publ) should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman