DRN-2196416
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Charter Court Financial Services Limited, trading as Charter Savings 
Bank (Charter Savings Bank), because it refused to allow her to open a new ISA saver 
account into which she wanted to transfer ISA account balance. She wants compensation for 
lost interest, and also for her distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mrs B held a One Year Fixed ISA with Charter Savings Bank. This account matured in early 
2020. 
At that time, Mrs B was not resident in the UK. 
In February 2020, Mrs B requested that, on maturation, the balance of her ISA be 
transferred into a new ISA product with Charter Savings Bank. An agent at Charter Savings 
Bank told Mrs B that this was not possible because she was no longer a UK resident. 
Mrs B made a complaint. She argued that guidance from HMRC allowed ISA balances to be 
transferred to another provider, even if the customer had moved overseas. She thought that 
this necessarily included opening a new ISA to facilitate the transfer. 
Charter Savings Bank responded saying that she would be able to transfer her ISA funds 
into an existing account, but that Charter Savings Bank would not open a new ISA for her. 
Charter Savings Bank referred to its terms which require account holders to be UK resident 
at the time of opening an account. 
Mrs B was not happy with this response and contacted us. 
Her balance was transferred to an existing account and she feels that the decision to not 
allow her to open a new ISA was wrong, and has caused her to lose interest. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and has set out her view to the parties. 
This was that Charter Savings Bank had acted fairly and in a way consistent with its terms 
and conditions. She therefore did not ask Charter Savings Bank to do anything further. 
Mrs B did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular, had regard to the investigators view, the terms and conditions published 
by Charter Savings Bank and the guidance referred to by Mrs B.
I understand Mrs Bs view that, if it permissible to transfer an ISA into another account whilst 
a non-UK resident, then it would logically be permissible to HMRC that an account could be 
opened for that purpose. 
I do, however, agree with the investigators view that Charter Savings Bank has not done 
anything wrong in this matter. 
Charter Savings Bank is able to set terms and conditions, which apply to its accounts. It has 
done so, and those terms limit new savings accounts to UK residents. This is reasonable.
Those terms are clear that Charter Savings Bank will only open new savings accounts for 
UK residents. Mrs B is not a UK resident and I do not consider that Charter Savings Bank is 
required to offer an account outside of its terms. 
Charter Savings Bank has applied its terms fairly in this case and has communicated its 
decision clearly. 
It has also transferred Mrs Bs ISA funds to another existing account as Mrs B requested. 
I therefore agree that Charter Savings Bank has acted reasonably, and I do not ask it to do 
anything further. 
I realise that this will be disappointing to Mrs B, but I hope that it is clear why I have reached 
this view.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and given in the investigators view, I do not uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint and do not ask Charter Court Financial Services Limited, trading as Charter 
Savings Bank, to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman