DRN-3853600
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the way Zurich Insurance PLC has been handling a claim he 
made under a buildings insurance policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
In May 2021, Mr D got in touch with Zurich about water damage in his home.
Zurich began looking into the claim. Mr D didnt think Zurich was dealing with the 
claim as quickly as it should be and made two complaints. Zurich gave two 
responses, the latter of which was in September 2021. It thought it had acted fairly.
Mr D referred those complaints to this Service. Our investigator was satisfied Zurich 
had acted fairly and the matter was closed. Zurich continued to look into the claim, 
and information was shared between Zurich and Mr D.
In June 2022, Mr D complained a third time. Zurich responded in September 2022. It 
said it was reviewing the information provided by Mr D and didnt think there had 
been any unnecessary delays.
Our investigator considered what had happened between the second response in 
September 2021 and the third response in September 2022. She thought Zurich had 
acted fairly. She said Zurich had been actively investigating the claim and had at 
times been reliant on third parties for information. Overall, she was satisfied Zurich 
had asked for reasonable information and hadnt caused delays.
Mr D disagreed, made a number of further comments, and asked for his complaint to 
be referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
As our investigator has explained, the scope of this complaint is the claim events 
between September 2021 and September 2022. So Ill focus on that and I wont 
consider anything which happened outside of that timeframe. I recognise Mr D has 
provided extensive comments, but I wont be responding in the same level of detail. 
Ive read and thought everything hes said before reaching my decision, but Ill only 
go over my key findings.
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is about the time taken to progress the claim. Hes also 
questioned whether the way Zurich has handled the claim is motivated by racial 
discrimination.
Zurich has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. Ive looked at what happened 
during the relevant time and Im satisfied Zurich has fulfilled that duty. Ill explain why.
Zurich asked Mr D and other parties for information. Im satisfied that information was 
directly relevant to the claim as its likely to impact whether Zurich accepts the claim 
or not  and, if it does, how much it would pay. Given the quotes submitted by Mr D, 
the claim potentially has a very high value. Im satisfied the enquiries were 
proportionate and reasonable in the circumstances.
Zurich was proactive when asking for information, but it was reliant on other parties 
to provide that information, so it couldnt control how long it took to receive 
everything. It received much of the outstanding information in mid 2022, with more 
due to follow soon after. When it responded to the recent complaint, it agreed to 
review the information. I think that was a reasonable position to take.
Whilst the claim had been ongoing for over a year at the time of the recent complaint 
response, I dont think thats the result of Zurich making unreasonable enquiries, 
dealing with the claim too slowly or otherwise causing any unreasonable delays.
Its clear Mr D feels very strongly that hes been badly let down by the way Zurich has 
handled the claim. Hes described living in difficult circumstances during this time, 
including the impact on him and his family of living with the damage. However, as I 
havent found that Zurich caused any unreasonable delays during the claim, I dont 
find Zurich responsible for the distress and inconvenience Mr D has faced.
Zurich has told this Service it entirely refutes Mr Ds comments that there is a racially 
motivated cause behind it not accepting the claim. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr D has been treated unfairly or differently to any other policyholder.
Overall, Im satisfied Zurich has treated Mr D fairly in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman