DRN-3150293
The complaint
Mr P complains that his credit file was affected when Santander UK Plc failed to set up a 
direct debit . He would like his credit file amended.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
In a linked complaint our investigator showed that when Mr P entered a reduced 
payment plan in March 2020 Santander informed him that this would have an impact 
on his credit file. Looking at Mr Ps credit file the arrears are noted from May 2020. 
Santander  told us that its credit file reporting is two cycles in arrears which explains 
why the markers didnt show until May 2020.
Santander has acknowledged that it didnt reinstate Mr Ps direct debit payment when 
his payment holiday ended in January 2021. For its poor level of service, it paid Mr P 
£150 compensation. I think this was fair as its actions caused some inconvenience.
I appreciate Mr P is concerned as he had to make manual payments in January and 
February 2021 that this impacted on his credit file. Having looked at his credit file I 
dont believe this is the case. The markers on the credit file relate to when his 
account fell into arrears in May 2020. Although Mr P made the correct payments as 
per his loan agreement (£241) for January and February 2021 his account was still in 
arrears which explains why markers continued to show on his credit file. Santander 
explained this would happen to Mr P  in a letter in March 2021.
I  appreciate credit file information can be confusing, but I dont believe Santanders 
credit file reporting is either wrong or that its mistake reinstating the direct debit 
payments further impacted on Mr Ps credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
