DRN-3042875
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the fees he is being charged by Hartley Pensions Limited 
(Hartley) for administering his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
  
What happened
In 2018 Hartley took over the management of Mr Rs SIPP from a previous pension provider 
that went into administration.
The businesses involved in the set up and operation of Mr Rs SIPP are set out below:
The Lifetime SIPP Company (Lifetime)
Lifetime as a regulated SIPP operator that provided Mr Rs SIPP until March 2018 when it 
entered into administration.
Hartley Pensions Limited (Hartley)
Hartley is a regulated SIPP operator which acquired Mr Rs SIPP in March 2018 by novation 
when his previous provider, Lifetime, went into administration.
Hartley SAS Limited (Hartley SAS)
Hartley SAS was contracted to carry out the day-to-day administration of SIPPs for Lifetime, 
including collecting annual and ad-hoc fees.  It continues to perform this role for Hartley 
since Lifetime entered administration.
Mr R transferred existing pension provisions into a SIPP with Lifetime following advice in 
2011 from a business called Tailormade.  He then made the following investments:
Storefirst - £41,836;
SCS Farmland - £20,000; and 
Green Oil Plantations - £10,250.
In February 2012 Mr R requested 25% of his pension pot from Lifetime and was paid a 
Pension Commencement Lump Sum of £21,639.99 in March of the same year.  This meant 
his funds became crystallised and he entered a capped drawdown.  He was advised that a 
pension benefit review would take place every three years until the age of 75, and after that 
time it would be completed annually.
All three investments were in financial difficulty, and Mr R made a claim to the Financial 
Service Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the initial advice given by Tailormade.  The 
FSCS paid compensation to Mr R to compensate his losses, but the SIPP remained open as 
the FSCS was unable to take assignment of all the investments.
As the SIPP still holds an active asset, Mr R has been unable to close the SIPP and Hartley 
has been charging him annual administration fees of £924. In August 2018 Mr R raised a 
complaint with Hartley about pension review fees of £192, but subsequently made it clear he 
is unhappy with the fees hes being charged overall.
Hartley didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint and responded saying that the fees were being 
appropriately charged in accordance with the agreed fee schedule, and that it is a HMRC 
requirement for pension reviews to be carried out.
Mr R remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our Service.  One of our investigators 
looked into things and concluded Mr Rs complaint should be upheld in part.  The 
investigator considered Hartley has treated Mr R unfairly and felt it was charging 
unnecessarily high fees in relation to the SIPP.
The investigator concluded that the pension benefit review fee was fair and accepted it 
relates to something that any SIPP operator would have to carry out. But he felt the annual 
renewal fees for the SIPP were excessive, given that he felt limited administration would be 
required and Hartley offered similar services to new customers at a lower cost.
To put things right, the investigator suggested that Hartley reduce the annual fees it was 
charging Mr R, in line with what it charges new customers for its Prosperity SIPP.  He also 
told Hartley to refund the difference between that cost and what Mr R has actually paid since 
it took over the SIPP.
Hartley disagreed, but made no further comments.
Mr R disagreed and provided several responses which I have reviewed in full.  He pointed 
out that the FSCS valued all three investments as having nil value, and that he wanted to 
close the SIPP and stop incurring fees.  Mr R also said the terms of his FSCS reassignment 
means that any benefit that might be generated through the SIPP is for the benefit of the 
FSCS and his entitlement to any financial benefit has ended.  For this reason, Mr R says its 
unfair hes still being charged fees.
Mr R has also explained how the situation and ongoing uncertainty for future liability of fees 
is having an adverse effect on his and his wifes health. So, he also considers it would be 
appropriate for compensation to be paid in the form of damages.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that I understand Hartley is not the business that was responsible for 
advising on or accepting Mr Rs SIPP and investments in the first place.  It cannot be held 
responsible for any actions or fees that Mr R was charged before it took over administration 
of the SIPP in March 2018.
So, the key issue for me to decide is whether it is fair and reasonable for Hartley to charge 
fees for Mr Rs SIPP, and if it is, what level of fees would be fair and reasonable.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable in this complaint, I consider the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles for Businesses to be of particular relevance.The Principles for Businesses (PRIN) which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
(PRIN 1.1.2G).  In addition, in British Bankers Association, R (on the application of) v The 
Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (20 April 2011) Ousely J 
said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would 
be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford.  Even if no Principles had been 
produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty 
without having regard to the sort of high level principles which find expression in the 
Principles, whoever formulated them.  They are the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules (para 77).
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added.  The Principles always have to be complied with.  The specific rules do 
not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific 
applications of them to the particular requirements they cover.  The general notion that 
the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate.  It cannot 
be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules (para 162).
I consider Principle 6 to be of particular relevance:
Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
In September 2009 the FSA published a thematic review report on SIPPs which stated:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the 
fair treatment of their customers.  COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes 
clients
The context that these comments were made are in relation to the quality of the business 
that a SIPP operator accepts.  As Ive already explained, I understand that in this complaint 
Hartley is not responsible for the acceptance of Mr Rs business, but its clear from the FSAs 
comments that SIPP operators were obliged to ensure fair treatment of their customers.
So, Ive carefully considered Hartley obligation to treat its customers (and specifically Mr R) 
fairly when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise the fees Hartley has charged Mr R are those which were agreed with Lifetime when 
the SIPP was established, and so under the terms of the SIPP it is contractually entitled to 
collect them.  But Im required to consider whether thats fair and reasonable in the wider 
circumstances.  Mr Rs SIPP holds a single asset.  The investment in has become illiquid 
and is effectively worthless at present.  This has resulted in Mr R being unable to transfer 
that asset or close the SIPP.
Having reviewed everything provided to me by both parties, in the circumstances, I dont 
think Hartley has treated Mr R fairly  and so I cant say it has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner.I acknowledge that Hartley took over Mr Rs SIPP at a time when he was already in a difficult 
position, and I do accept that as a commercial business, there is a cost to Hartley providing 
administration of that SIPP.  But the fees Hartley levy upon Mr R must be fair.
Pension benefit review fee
I understand Mr Rs frustration at having to pay a pension review fee when he is not now 
getting any personal benefit from the SIPP.  However, once the pension was crystallised, it 
became a requirement for a pension benefit review to be undertaken every three years  
and annually once Mr R reached 75 years of age.
Whilst I appreciate Mr R likely considers it unnecessary, this process is something which any 
SIPP operator would have to carry out  irrespective of the position of the investments within 
the SIPP.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I must act impartially.  Whilst I can empathise 
with Mr Rs position, I also recognise Hartley must carry out this review and there will be 
associated costs.  
The fee which Hartley has charged Mr R is a continuation of the terms set out in Lifetimes 
fee schedule and doesnt seem excessive (compared to what would be usual across the 
industry).
So, Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable for Hartley to charge the pension benefit review fee.
Hartleys annual administration/renewal fee
I understand there are a number of tasks and responsibilities that may be required to be 
carried in relation to the administration of a SIPP.  In his assessment, the investigator set out 
a list of what those things may be  but I wont repeat them all here as all parties have seen 
that.
Hartley hasnt evidenced specifically what action has been required to administer Mr Rs 
SIPP, but I am satisfied it requires work to be undertaken.  The SIPP isnt dormant as Mr Rs 
pension benefits have been crystallised and an income has been generated by his 
investment (albeit I accept a minimal amount).
Whilst its relevant that Mr R is not entitled to any of the financial benefit, it was a term of his 
FSCS compensation that he agreed to.  I cant say it would be fair that Hartley carry the 
burden of covering associated costs.  Though I have considered the level of fees Hartley is 
charging and whether they are fair and reasonable.
The fees Hartley has levied in relation to Mr Rs SIPP are the fees that were in place and 
agreed between Mr R and Lifetime when the SIPP was set up.  But I dont think that 
automatically makes it appropriate for Hartley to continue with those fees.
Ive considered what Hartley would have charged a new customer for a similar service.  Im 
satisfied the Prosperity SIPP is the most equivalent from those that Hartley offers, and 
takes account of the fact Mr Rs pension benefits are crystallised.  Hartley would charge a 
new customer £400 + VAT per annum for that type of account.
So, overall, I believe this would be a fair and reasonable annual administration fee for 
Hartley to charge Mr R.
  
Putting things rightTo put things right, Hartley should reduce the fees its charging Mr R, so that he is only being 
charged the pension review view, and the lower annual administration fee equivalent to that 
charged to a new customer for the Prosperity SIPP.
Hartley should also refund to Mr R the difference between what hes actually paid since it 
took over the SIPP from Lifetime, and what he would have paid had he been charged the 
fees set out above.  Any refund should be paid plus 8% simple interest from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement.
I appreciate Mr R finds himself in a situation not of his choosing and the frustration that goes 
with that. Until all investments in the SIPP can be disposed of, then the SIPP itself cannot be 
closed.  This is not a straightforward situation, but I think Hartley should provide all 
assistance it reasonably can to assist Mr R, to engage with any necessary parties to arrange 
for the disposal of the underlying investments and enable closure of the SIPP.
I realise Mr R may be disappointed that I havent directed Hartley to cancel all fees.  Im also 
aware that hes referred to a previous published decision which Ive issued relating to similar 
issues.  The circumstances here are different from that case, and I consider each complaint 
on its own facts. But I must assure Mr R that Ive considered everything impartially, afresh 
and in full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Hartley Pensions Limited, and I 
direct it to put things right by following the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman