DRN-4199391
The complaint
Mr L, a sole trader, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc misled him regarding the arrears on a 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and refused to accept payment. He says this resulted in them 
unfairly transferring the loan to an external debt collection agency and recording a default on 
his credit file. 
What happened
Mr L took out a BBL in 2020 for £8,730. Under the terms of the scheme, no repayments 
were due for the first 12 months. 
By February 2022, Mr Ls BBL was two months in arrears. The business had still not fully 
recovered from the impact of the pandemic, so Mr L phoned the bank to discuss matters. 
During this phone call, a Pay as You Grow (PAYG) repayment holiday and term extension 
was set up. Mr L also offered to clear the arrears on the BBL by credit card payment, but the 
bank declined to accept this. 
In August 2022, HSBC say they sent Mr L a default notice, requiring him to clear the arrears 
of £1,085 by 24 August 2022. This was followed by a final demand on 26 August 2022. 
In September 2022, the bank transferred Mr Ls BBL to external debt collectors and recorded 
a default on his credit file. 
Mr L complained. He said he didnt get any correspondence between the phone call in 
February and a letter from the debt collection agency in October 2022. He said HSBC had 
refused to accept payment from him and told him to ignore messages about the arrears. 
The bank didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. They said theyd sent several letters to him 
regarding the arrears, as well as a default notice and a final demand. 
Mr L referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He felt he had been unfairly 
treated as he was willing to make up the arrears and continue with the monthly repayments 
due. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt recommend upholding 
Mr Ls complaint. She didnt think the bank had done anything wrong. 
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. He said the bank 
had told him to ignore all reminders about the arrears once the repayment holiday was in 
place and he hadnt received any letters after that. He also said that at the time of the phone 
call, his only means of making a payment was by credit card, but the bank had refused to 
accept this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for essentially the 
same reasons. I realise that will be a disappointment to Mr L so Ill explain why. 
This complaint hinges largely on the lengthy phone call between Mr L and the bank in 
February 2022. Ive listened carefully to the recording of this conversation. I understand that 
Mr L has also been sent a copy of this call. 
On the subject of the arrears, HSBC didnt say that Mr L should ignore any future contact. 
The banks representative emphasised that letters would still continue because were not 
agreeing a solution. He explained that he wasnt prepared to accept a credit card payment 
to clear the arrears, without going through an income and expenditure process to ensure that 
the payment was affordable. He also offered to put the account on a seven day hold while 
Mr L got together the necessary income and expenditure information so that an affordable 
plan could be agreed. Mr L didnt take up that option, but rather matters were left that he 
would arrange to clear the arrears when he had the funds. 
I think the bank followed good practice in declining to accept a credit card payment  which 
is another form of debt  without knowing if it was affordable. Banks are required to lend 
responsibly and not to encourage customers to get into debt, so I dont think this was an 
error. Neither do I think Mr L was misled about the arrears. I think it was clear that the 
arrears remained an issue and needed to be cleared, either in full or by agreeing on a 
repayment plan. In my view, the banks representative was very clear and he confirmed that 
Mr L had understood him.
Mr L has said that he then didnt receive any further letters until the one from the debt 
collection agency in October 2022. HSBC has sent us copies of the letters they say they 
sent in March and May, together with the default notice and final demand sent in 
August 2022. All were addressed to the address the bank held for Mr L  and the same 
address as the debt collection agency letter, which he said he did receive. These are 
standard letters and are automatically generated. Im satisfied that its more likely than not 
that they were sent.  
It doesnt necessarily follow that correctly addressed letters will be correctly delivered. But I 
wouldnt consider it fair to hold HSBC responsible for the non-delivery of correctly addressed 
letters, given that the delivery of letters is undertaken by a postal service over which they 
have no control. 
It was Mr Ls responsibility as the borrower to make repayments as they fell due and keep on 
top of his obligations under the loan agreement. I also think that the phone call was clear 
that the arrears still needed to be cleared at some point. So Mr L knew that was the position 
regardless of whether the subsequent letters arrived. I therefore dont think the bank did 
anything wrong by passing Mr Ls loan to the external debt collectors when he didnt clear 
the arrears or make any arrangement to do so. Neither do I think it was wrong to record the 
default on his credit file.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 Louise Bardell
Ombudsman