DRN-4144763
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Gresham Insurance Company Limited dealt with claims 
he made under a home insurance policy he shares jointly with Mrs G. Gresham applied its 
fraud exclusion and so refused to meet their claims for theft and accidental damage. 
Mr Gs son, also Mr G, is representing his father in his complaint. So for ease any reference 
in my decision to Mr G2 refers to Mr Gs son as his representative. 
Mr G2 says Gresham discriminated against his parents and they experienced racism during 
the handling of the claims by Gresham. 
All reference to the insurer Gresham in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr G2 says he set up a home insurance policy on behalf of his parents in April 2022 when 
they moved home. Mr G2 says that English isnt his parents first language. 
About six weeks later Mr G made three claims within a short period of time against the 
policy. The first for accidental damage to a TV, the second for two stolen mobile phones, and 
a third for accidental damage to another TV. 
Gresham settled the first claim. But on receipt of the additional claims within such a short 
period of time, it arranged for an investigator to interview Mr G2 and his father to take an 
account of what happened when the mobile phones were stolen - and when the second TV 
was damaged. 
Gresham found there were inconsistencies in the accounts and evidence provided by Mr G2 
and his father to support the claims. Given its concerns, Gresham applied its fraud exclusion 
and cancelled the policy from the date the claim for the mobile phones was made in July 
2022. This meant it wouldnt deal with this claim - or the claim for the second damaged TV. 
Mr G2 complained to Gresham on behalf of his parents about its decision. But Gresham said 
it had acted correctly and in line with the policy. So Mr G2 asked us to look at the complaint. 
He said Gresham had refused to provide a copy of the statements used to reach its decision. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She explained that both 
Mr G2 and his father had signed each page of the witness statements they had provided 
when interviewed. We let Gresham know we would provide a copy of the statements to Mr 
G2 as they are key evidence in reaching our decision. 
Mr G2 disagrees. He has reiterated that he and his parents provided Gresham with all of the 
information it asked for. He is unhappy with the way he says his parents were treated by 
Gresham and for the way it handled their complaint.
So the case has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Gresham can avoid or cancel a policy and refuse a claim if it believes a condition of the 
policy has been breached. In this case, Gresham say, based on the evidence it has, its 
likely Mr and Mrs G did breach the fraud condition of the policy. Ive checked the terms and 
conditions of the policy in relation to this, and they say:
8. Our rights
We may cancel your policy or additional covers where there is a valid reason, for 
example where:
 you have not paid your premium when due. If you miss a payment, we will write to 
you giving a further date to pay. If we dont receive payment by then we will cancel 
the policy from the date shown on the letter;
 we reasonably suspect fraud
 you fail to co-operate with us or give us information or documentation we ask for, 
and this affects our ability to process a claim or defend our interests;
 you have not given complete and accurate answers to the questions we ask
Where we cancel, we will always give you at least 14 days notice by post or email to 
the last address you have given us and tell you the reason why. The exception is 
where we have evidence that you have acted fraudulently or deliberately given us 
incorrect or incomplete information when we may cancel your policy without notice 
and backdate the cancellation to the date when this happened, which could be when 
you first bought your policy.
It isnt for us to decide whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Instead, I need 
to decide if Gresham acted reasonably on raising the fraud condition and taking the action it 
has.
So Ive looked at what Gresham has taken into account, and whether I think this was fair.
Ive seen a copy of the witness statements provided by Mr G2 and his father as to the 
accounts for the claims for two stolen mobile phones and accidental damage to a second 
TV. 
Mr G2 provided a copy of the contract agreements for two new mobile phones which were 
purchased in his mothers name in April 2022. 
Mr G2 says they decided to sell both phones and advertised both for sale on a social media 
platform.
I agree that there are a number of inconsistencies in the accounts given. Mr G said that the 
men looking to buy arrived at the home to buy two phones. He said his son, Mr G2, dealt 
with them and the transaction by bank transfer. Mr G2 was satisfied that the bank transfer 
had been successful and so allowed the men to leave with the phones. But as the money 
didnt reach the account, they realised they had been scammed. 
Mr G2 stated that he arrived as the men were leaving - and that his father had dealt with the 
transaction. He said he didnt speak to the men. Mr G2 later changed his account to say that 
he arrived home and joined the conversation and agreed with the buyer to pay to his account 
by bank transfer. 
Evidence has been provided to show communications between two parties on a social 
media platform for the sale of one mobile phone. Mr G2 hasnt provided evidence to show 
that two mobile phones were for sale. 
In relation to the claim for a second damaged TV, Mr G2 stated that his father told him their 
dog had knocked into a TV that was propped against a wall in their living room which caused 
it to fall and break. Mr G stated that he wasnt in the room when the TV was damaged. He 
believed as the window was open it may have fallen over due to a draught. Mr G2 has provided comments on the witness statements. In summary he says they dont 
reflect their words accurately. 
Its isnt for this service to dictate to an insurer on its own business process - but I find that 
Gresham treated Mr and Mrs G fairly and as it would any other customer in appointing an 
investigator to interview Mr G and Mr G2 as the parties involved in the claims. 
Mr G2 says Gresham didnt properly address their grievances. This service cannot look at 
complaints handling in line with the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. This is 
because it isnt a regulated activity. 
I can see that an interpreter was provided for Mr G - and that Mr G and Mr G2 both signed 
each page of the witness statements they provided to confirm that the information was 
correct. So I cant say Gresham acted unreasonably in relying on the statements when 
making its decision. 
Mr G2 says he feels Gresham has discriminated against his parents given the problems 
theyve experienced. However, having looked at all the evidence I dont think Gresham has 
done so. Nor do I think Gresham has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mr 
G2 to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into their concerns.
Mr G2 says Gresham failed to make reasonable adjustments for Mr and Mrs G. In other 
words, has failed their duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. 
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its 
relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. 
If Mr and Mrs G want a decision that Gresham has breached the Equality Act 2010, then 
theyd need to go to Court.
Mr G2 says his parents have a disability. I understand the interview took place at their home. 
And as Ive said, I think Gresham treated Mr and Mrs G fairly in making a reasonable 
adjustment for Mr G by providing an interpreter. 
As there were a number of inconsistencies and lack of evidence to support the claims - and 
putting all of its concerns together - I dont think it was unreasonable for Gresham to decide 
the fraud condition of the policy had been breached. And having reached that conclusion, I 
dont think Gresham acted unreasonably in deciding to cancel their policy and reject their 
claims. 
If Mr and Mrs G believe Gresham has breached data protection rules, they can contact the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) at https://ico.org.uk/
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman