DRN-2293565
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) reduced his overdraft limit. 
What happened
Earlier this year, BOS wrote to Mr B telling him that it had decided to reduce the overdraft 
limit on his account. Mr B wasnt happy about that as the limit had been the same for several 
years. He says that BOS should have invited him into the branch to discuss it. He wanted 
the overdraft limit to stay the same. He was also concerned that the letter from BOS about 
the overdraft contained his full sort code and account number, which could have 
compromised the security of his account.
Mr B complained to BOS. His complaint wasnt upheld because BOS said its terms and 
conditions allow it to reduce the overdraft limit at any time. It said that, following a routine 
review, it had decided to reduce Mr Bs overdraft limit to a more appropriate level. It said this 
was based on his usage over recent months plus an extra amount on top to allow some 
flexibility.
Mr B wasnt happy with BOS response so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think BOS had done anything wrong here. But Mr B didnt agree and 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of our investigator. I realise Mr B will find this 
disappointing, but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs bank account set out how his overdraft works. They say 
that BOS will review the overdraft regularly and that, based on this review, BOS can reduce 
the overdraft limit. So Im satisfied that BOS was entitled to reduce the overdraft limit under 
the terms and conditions.
BOS has explained that, as a responsible lender, it needs to ensure that customers 
overdraft limits are at an appropriate level. In Mr Bs case, it says that the new, reduced limit 
tied in with the way he had been using the overdraft. Looking at Mr Bs account usage over 
the few months before BOS wrote to him, I think the decision to reduce the limit was 
reasonable. Mr B hadnt made full use of the original overdraft limit and his spending was 
well within the new limit. And BOS gave Mr B enough notice of the change before the new 
limit took effect. I realise Mr B would have liked the limit to remain the same. But I think BOS 
was entitled to reduce it and I think its decision to do so was reasonable. So Im not going to 
ask it to re-instate the original overdraft limit.
The letter which BOS sent to Mr B about the overdraft contained his full account number and 
sort code. I understand Mr Bs concerns about that. But BOS has explained that it considers 
the post to be a secure method of delivery and uses it to send out items such as 
chequebooks and debit cards, which contain full account details. BOS says its the bank 
which bears the risk of fraudulent activity based on information it sends out by post. I think 
thats a reasonable approach. And I note that the letter was sent to the correct address. So I 
dont find that BOS did anything wrong in this respect. And Im not aware of any detriment 
caused to Mr B as a result of his full details being included on this letter. So Im not going to 
ask BOS to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman