DRN-3154901
The complaint
In summary, Mr J complains that Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited didnt 
make him aware it was taking commission from his policy. He didnt agree to it doing so.
What happened
In 1999 Mr J took out an income drawdown plan through an adviser. In 2010 Compass took 
over Mr Js former advisers firm. Mr J said he received no documents from Compass and 
had managed and made changes to his pension without the assistance of Compass after his 
adviser retired. 
In its response to Mr Js concerns, Compass explained that it had taken over his former 
advisers clients and that commission had been received in respect of Mr Js policy since 
2010 under the terms of the original contract. 
It explained that when the policy was set up commission payments would remain in force 
until cancelled by him. And it went on to explain how such arrangements changed for new 
investments, but not existing ones, when the retail distribution review came into force at the 
end of December 2012. It said that Mr J could have cancelled the arrangement but didnt. 
And it was unable to provide a copy of any signed documentation in respect of the payment 
of commission.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js concerns. In summary he concluded that by not 
contacting Mr J, Compass didnt give him the opportunity to consider if he was happy for the 
commission arrangement to stay in place. And he thought that if Compass had contacted Mr 
J in 2010, he would have cancelled the commission payments.
Compass didnt agree. In summary it said the commission was set out at the point of sale, 
and Mr J would have been given documentation to confirm that it would be paid. The plan 
commenced in 1999. It went on to say that the commission payments were 0.5% and it 
believed Mr J would have had a copy of this. It had tried to contact Mr J in 2010 when he 
migrated to Compass, but it had no records of further contact; or of what was discussed at 
the meeting/telephone conversation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I want to make it clear that the legitimacy of commission payments being made from 
pension arrangements such as Mr Js, is not in dispute. I understand and accept that taking 
into account the plan started in 1999, the payment of commission from Mr Js income 
drawdown plan was an appropriate way for the adviser who set the policy up for him to be 
remunerated at that time. And the application of the retail distribution review (RDR) from the 
end of December 2012, didnt mean that commission payments couldnt continue to be paid 
on policies started prior to that date.
But the crux of Mr Js complaint isnt that commission payments were taken by the adviser 
that set up the plan originally; its that he wasnt told the agency of his plan had been 
transferred to Compass in 2010. And that it had taken commission payments from that time 
without Mr J knowing that it was doing so until 2020.
Mr J has argued that since the retirement of his adviser in 2010, he has made his own 
decisions regarding his drawdown plan and wasnt aware that Compass had in effect taken 
over the agency of his policy. There isnt any documentation available from the time of the 
policy was taken out. And neither Compass nor Mr J have been able to provide much in the 
way of documentation either. So, Ive considered what little evidence is available.
Compass has confirmed that the annual statements it holds on its file dont show 
commission payments being paid. And this corroborates what is shown on the statements 
provided by Mr J. So, I think its unlikely that Mr J was aware commission payments were 
being made from 2010 at least, until his 2020 statement, which does show a commission 
figure. 
Compass has said it wasnt obliged to provide any ongoing service by way of reviews, as Mr 
J was never on a service proposition with it. This isnt surprising to me because it doesnt 
appear to have had any/or any substantive contact with him since it took over the agency of 
his policy in 2010. So, I dont think its given Mr J the opportunity to have a service 
relationship with it, even though it was receiving commission from his policy for 10 years. 
Compass said it wrote to Mr J in October 2010 reminding him of the need to review his 
finances regularly, but its not provided a copy of that letter or any other correspondence to 
him. Its also told us that in October 2010, it phoned Mr J to book a review meeting, but it 
cant confirm if contact was made. Compass hasnt been able to provide any evidence that 
indicates it tried to make further contact with Mr J. So, Im not persuaded that it made any 
meaningful further attempts to contact him. 
Its also said that it wasnt obliged to contact clients who werent paying fees in accordance 
with its service proposition, although historical commission payments may have been 
received. Im a little surprised at this statement having reviewed the proposition booklet it 
has provided. This does explain that: ..an annual review will be offered at an extra charge 
and is recommended.
It then goes on to set out the review options and the ongoing charges. The basic option of 
the three offered is the Essential. And the charges for that option are stated as:
0.5% of the value of any investments held or the natural trail commission if the product was 
incepted before 31/12/2012.
So, taking into what is said in the proposition booklet, Im satisfied that Compass was being 
paid commission on a policy taken out before the end of December 2012. And the payment it 
received was in line with payments it required for reviews to be potentially provided.  
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that it that it made any meaningful 
attempt to inform Mr J about the review service that was available to him. And I think in line 
with its proposition to clients such as Mr J, it should have tried to contact him to offer a 
review after its initial attempt in 2010. But as Ive also explained above, I dont think it did. As 
a result, I dont think it has treated Mr J fairly or reasonably. 
Mr J has explained that since his adviser retired, he has in essence, managed the policy 
himself. And when he found out about Compass being paid commission, he cancelled that 
through the product provider. And it doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr J was able to do that. And Ive not seen anything which persuades me that Mr J wouldnt have also cancelled 
the commission payments and not used Compass; if he had been contacted by it in 2010, or 
at any time after that. So, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and for 
the reasons he explained. 
Although Compass has said Mr J needed to cancel any commission payments, Ive not seen 
anything to indicate why it wasnt able to simply ask Mr Js income drawdown provider to 
stop paying it commission if it didnt want to receive it. And in my experience that is generally 
a very simple thing for an advisory firm to do. 
Compass has also referred to another case this service has considered, which it says is 
similar to Mr Js, and supports its argument that his complaint shouldnt be upheld. I and this 
service assess cases on their own individual facts and circumstances. Im not going to 
comment on any findings made on another case. My consideration is about what has 
happened in the particular circumstances of Mr Js case. 
Also, Im not bound by any assessment or decision that may have been reached by an 
investigator or ombudsman in a different case, however similar the parties may think they 
are. And in my experience cases that seem to be similar, are not always the same. There 
are often different facts and circumstances that distinguish one case from another. And that 
can lead to different outcomes on cases that may appear to be similar.
Putting things right
Compass needs to refund Mr J all of the commission it has received from his income 
drawdown plan. 
Pay simple interest at the rate of 8% a year from the date those payments were 
received to the date payment is made to Mr J.
Provide Mr J with a breakdown of how it has calculated the compensation paid to 
him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above my decision is to uphold Mr Js complaint about Compass 
Wealth Management Consultants Limited. If Mr J accepts my decision it should pay Mr J 
compensation using the methodology set out above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 12 
August 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman