DRN-2768464
The complaint
Miss Ds complaint is about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation
to her central heating insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier in April 2021, part of which is copied 
below: 
 
The policy includes an annual service of the boiler. British Gas carried out an annual service
on Miss Ds boiler in October 2019. She then applied for cover with another provider after
her policy with British Gas ended in November 2019. The new provider carried out a check
on Miss Ds boiler and heating system before it would confirm cover. Having done so, it
reported to Miss D that the gas emissions readings were unacceptable, which meant the
boiler was unsafe and needed to be switched off.
Miss D contacted British Gas and it sent an engineer out the next day. He said the boiler
was safe and there were no issues with it. Miss D then arranged for the engineer to speak
with the new provider about its findings. The new provider apparently told the engineer it was
probably a faulty gas valve. British Gass engineer replaced the valve but there was still a
problem, so he spoke with the manufacturer. It apparently told him that the problem was
therefore the heat exchanger. The heat exchanger was out of stock, so British Gas
suggested the boiler manufacturer would be able to complete the repair quicker (as the
boiler was still under warranty). British Gas says its engineer spent some considerable time
on the phone arranging for the manufacturer to visit. He then classified the boiler as at risk,
turned it off and placed a warning label on it.
Two days later an engineer from the boiler manufacturer arrived to complete the repairs.
Miss D says he told her he was shocked at the way the boiler had been left by British Gas
and also that the new gas valve hadnt been fitted properly. Miss D also says the readings
the boiler manufacturers engineer took were so high they damaged his machine, and he
said that had the boiler been used it wouldve had serious consequences for Miss D and her
daughter.
Miss D is very unhappy about this issue not being spotted either during the annual service,
or by the engineer that came out afterwards. She says British Gas left her at risk as a result.
Miss D wants a new boiler and three years premiums refunded as compensation because
British Gas didnt complete the repair, the manufacturer did.
British Gas does not accept it has done anything wrong. It says it replaced the gas valve but
the boiler still wasnt fully operational so needed a new heat exchanger. Its engineer
followed the correct safety procedures, labelled the appliance and left paperwork to reflect
this decision. British Gas also says it would not have been possible for the manufacturers 
engineer to take gas emission readings when it went out, given the heat exchanger wasnt 
working and it cant comment on the readings taken by the new insurance provider, as it is 
unsure of its procedures.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be
upheld, as he didnt think there was enough evidence that British Gas had acted wrongly.
Miss D doesnt accept the investigators assessment. She provided an email from the other
insurance provider, which confirms it considered the boiler to be at risk; when it attended
and inspected it. Miss D also provided a photo of the at risk notice left by the new provider
dated 31 October 2019. She says she had taken this off, so the British Gas could work on
the boiler.
British Gas provided a response from its engineer to this. He said that on attending, Miss D
lied to him and said the call out was because her son could smell possible gas near the flue.
The boiler was on and there was no at risk notice on it. He tested everything, stripped the
boiler and everything was fine. Miss D then told him that another engineer had been working
on the boiler the day before and I did more test after speaking to the 3rd party. I found that
the readings produced by the boiler on a specific setting were not correct. I contacted the
manufacturer and replaced the gas valve. The readings were still not correct. So I arranged
for the manufacturer to visit as the boiler was still under warranty. I classed the boiler as At
Risk and advised the customer not to use it.
He also provided further follow-up comments:
The boiler had not been switched off by the 3rd party who had worked on the boiler. One of
our engineers had serviced the boiler about 2 weeks previously and I could see his test
results recorded on the computer. I did all the necessary tests that would be required as per
what the customer had told me. If the customer had informed me that a 3rd party had been
tampering and altering settings on her boiler I would have automatically done further
examination. I am unsure why the customers recollection of the events differs and to what
end.
British Gas says the engineer was working blind as the only information Miss D provided
was that her son said there was a strange smell outside near the flue and when he spoke to
the third party engineer, they told its engineer that there was an issue with the boiler, but
nothing more. It was only at this point that Miss D showed its engineer the third party
paperwork. This paperwork didnt show that they had placed an at risk notice on the boiler,
or that they turned the boiler off.
The investigator didnt think any of this new information changed the outcome of the
complaint. As he was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The new insurance provider that inspected the boiler found it was at risk. Miss D has
provided a copy of the safety warning notice it attached to her boiler, dated 31 October 2019.
They have also said:
the fault we found was when we tested the boiler as per the manufacturer
instructions the low gas readings were unacceptable, British Gas do not do this
check was his reply but he agreed he would sort the problem. He attempted to repair
the boiler but still the fault was there. He arranged for the manufacturer to attend who
did repair the boiler and then took you onto our contract.
British Gas told us it could not comment on another providers gas readings as it does notknow its procedures. I am not convinced this is a reasonable response on this point. I would
expect similar tests to be carried out by qualified gas engineers when testing the safety of a
gas appliance and that they would be able to interpret another gas engineers findings.
British Gas also said that the flue readings (which it takes as part of its normal safety check)
could still register as acceptable, even if there was a problem with the gas valve and
unacceptable readings there, so it didnt do anything wrong. The investigator accepted this.
However, the new provider carried out a test on a part of the boiler which it is says is a
routine test of the safety of the boiler, in accordance with the manufacturers instructions and
the results of which meant it was unsafe to operate the boiler. I have seen no proper
explanation as to why the same test of the same parts was not done by British Gas.
British Gas also says it was not at fault for not identifying this issue as it was working blind
and blames Miss D, and the new provider, for not telling its engineer exactly what the fault
was. I am not clear why an expert gas engineer from British Gas would need to be told what
the issue was by a householder and could not find it himself. This was not an intermittent
fault but an issue with gas emissions that meant the boiler was unsafe to operate.
Its engineer also seeks to cast doubt on Miss Ds credibility, as he says the boiler was on
and there was no at risk notice when he first attended, and she didnt tell him about the
previous findings. Miss D says she removed the notice so British Gass engineer could
access the boiler. Even if Miss D did say there was a gas smell from the flue and removed
the notice (perhaps as a test to see if British Gass engineer could identify the problem given
that the boiler had been recently serviced and the issue not picked up) I do not think this
negates British Gass responsibility to competently identify safety issues and faults with the
boiler. As said above, I have not seen any proper explanation as to why the gas valve would
not be tested as part of British Gass annual service of the boiler.
In addition, British Gass engineer spoke to the new insurance provider and still wasnt able
to find the cause of the fault. Again, British Gas seeks to blame the new insurance provider
for not telling it clearly enough what and where the problem was; and suggested the boiler
had been tampered with [and they had altered] the boiler settings and thereby caused the 
problem. I do not find this response persuasive.
British Gas told Miss D twice that the boiler was working properly and was safe to operate. It
then apparently subsequently determined that it was in fact not safe to operate and the gas
valve and heat exchanger needed replacing, having spoken to the new insurance providers
engineers. This is difficult to reconcile. British Gas has not explained how it went from being
satisfied everything with the boiler was working fine, to then needing a new gas valve and
heat exchanger and being unsafe.
I am not therefore persuaded that British Gas did nothing wrong. I think there are concerns
that it carried out an annual service of the boiler (which would normally require a check of
the boiler in line with manufacturers instructions as the new provider said it did) and did not
identify the issue which rendered the boiler unsafe to use; and this was then compounded by
another engineer also failing to identify the same issue.
I therefore have to consider what is required to put this right for Miss D. The boiler was
repaired, albeit by the manufacturer under warranty. Though Miss D is concerned that she
could potentially have been left at risk, fortunately this was not the case. However, I accept
this would have caused her unnecessary worry and she had to accommodate additional
engineer visits in order to repair the boiler. Miss D had taken this cover with British Gas in
order to keep her boiler working safely and she should not have been put in this position.
Overall, I consider the sum of £200 to be appropriate.My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require it to pay
Miss D the sum of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its
handling of this matter.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information they 
want considered. 
Miss D has confirmed she accepts my provisional decision. She is shocked that British Gas 
still wont accept it did anything wrong. Miss D says again that the boiler was switched off 
when British Gass engineer attended (and she was using fan heaters to heat her home); he 
said the boiler was safe, turned it back on and went to leave her property. She had to run 
after him and get him to speak to the new insurance providers engineer. 
British Gas has also confirmed it has received my provisional decision. It says it stands by its 
position but confirms it agrees to pay the compensation I provisionally proposed, as it 
accepts the matter caused Miss D worry. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or arguments, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings. I remain of the opinion that British Gas failed to identify an 
issue with the boiler during the annual service and a later attendance and that it should pay 
Miss D compensation for the trouble this caused her. 
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require it to pay
Miss D the sum of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its
handling of this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman