DRN-3118333
The complaint
Mr C complains that, when he switched some of his pension from the with-profits fund to 
another fund in 2005, the terminal bonus was calculated and switched as well. He thought 
the bonus would be paid when he reached his selected retirement age (SRA). He said if hed 
known this he wouldnt have switched from the fund. He says that it was an invitation from 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to make a free switch which led to these events.
He also complains about an incorrect valuation of his pension plan that he received in 
January 2018. He says it seems that his fund is diminishing quickly, and he doesnt think its 
proved to be a good investment. 
What happened
Mr C took out a retirement annuity contract with Equity and Law (now part of Aviva) in 
September 1985. The plan was set up to run until his 65th birthday and was invested equally 
between the managed and with-profit funds. Sometime later Mr C was invited to become a 
sales agent for the provider. As he was then regarded as a member of staff, he was able to 
give up the commission he was entitled to from his monthly contributions in order to get 
enhanced allocation rates applied to his funds.
The original plan included a Guaranteed Rate of Return of 4% on the with-profits element of 
the investment.
In August 2005 Mr C says he received an invitation from Aviva to make a free switch of his 
funds and so decided to switch out of the with-profits fund. The £5,207.46 that he held was 
transferred into the managed fund. However, because Aviva said hed terminated his 
agreement, the with-profit terminal bonus that had accrued to that point was also transferred.   
In July 2013 Mr C transferred his pension back into the with-profit fund. This meant he was 
now eligible to receive a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) at his SRA, provided he remained 
in the fund for five years. 
In January and April 2018 Mr C received retirement quotes from Aviva with a difference of 
around £55,315 between the transfer values. So, he contacted Aviva who explained that the 
January 2018 illustration was too high because it included a terminal bonus based on Mr Cs 
continued investment in the with-profits fund throughout the term of the plan, which hadnt 
been the case.
Mr C asked for confirmation of the amount of terminal bonus included in the valuation 
because he said he hadnt transferred out of the with-profits fund. He said his original 
contributions had remained in the fund, even when he diverted some of his monthly 
contributions to another fund in 2005. He asked Aviva to review whether his contributions 
had benefited from the enhanced allocations he was eligible for, as well as confirming hed 
been invested in the with-profits fund throughout. 
Aviva explained that Mr C had transferred from the with-profits fund in August 2005  and 
therefore the terminal bonus had been calculated up to that point and transferred along with 
the rest of the fund. It also confirmed the current value of his plan and that he received 
higher allocation rates, through increased units, where commission had been sacrificed in 
previous premium increases.
Separately Aviva responded to the matter of the different valuations.  It said that, following a 
system migration, it had used incorrect figures within the January 2018 illustration.  This led 
to the figures being over inflated. It also apologised that Mr C hadnt been able to speak with 
the same adviser throughout the complaint process and included a number of illustrations for 
him to be able to choose his final pension options. It said his pension income could be 
backdated to July 2018  as hed originally requested. It offered Mr C £500 for any 
inconvenience and distress hed suffered.
Mr C said that Aviva had invited him to switch funds in 2005 and said the switch would be 
free. But he said Aviva never explained that the terminal bonus would be calculated and 
transferred at that time, so the switch hadnt been free, and he thought hed been treated 
unfairly because he wasnt made aware of the situation which occurred. 
Aviva said it didnt have any evidence of writing to Mr C in 2005 inviting him to switch funds. 
But it confirmed that in 2005 and 2013 it had received instructions from him  firstly to switch 
out of the with-profits fund and then to switch back  and had carried out the switches as 
requested. So it didnt think it was responsible for Mr Cs decision to switch. 
Mr C wasnt happy with that response, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He said this was a complaint that shouldnt be upheld. 
He said Aviva hadnt provided Mr B with any financial advice  as the administrator of his 
plan. So he didnt think it had been at fault. He did say that Aviva had been wrong to provide 
two significantly different valuations in 2018  but had provided an in-depth explanation to 
Mr C and paid him £500 for any trouble and upset the matter had caused.
Mr C didnt agree and made the following points:
He didnt think wed fully looked into his complaint. He submitted more paperwork 
hed found from the original sale.
There was no evidence that Aviva had told him to take independent financial advice 
before switching. He thought the investigator had assumed this was what Aviva 
ought to have done.
The offer to switch free of charge came from Aviva and it didnt notify him that a 
terminal bonus had been added to the switched funds  calculated at that time 
instead of on his SRA. He believed the switch was going to be for future contributions 
 not the existing fund. 
The £500 compensation hed received wasnt enough to make up for the lost bonus.
He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so was passed to me to 
review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Cs complaint shouldnt be upheld  and that Avivas 
compensation payment for providing incorrect valuations was fair and reasonable. I made 
the following points in support of my findings:
I though Avivas terms and conditions (T&Cs) were clear in confirming that if it 
received an instruction to switch funds like the one sent by Mr C, then it would 
calculate the up to date value of the with-profits fund and terminal bonus and switch 
the total amount to another fund. Aviva wasnt providing financial advice so wasnt obliged to specifically make Mr C 
aware of the effect of such a switch on the terminal bonus  other than what was 
generally available from the T&Cs. 
Mr C had said he was invited to switch his funds for free in 2005  but I hadnt been 
able to see a copy of the communication he said he was sent. However, he had 
made a similar request in 2003 when he asked for future premiums to be invested 
as follows, whereas his 2005 instruction was authority to switch all of the units 
currently in the with-profits fund into a balanced fund. Looking at the distinction 
between his instructions I thought Aviva had acted correctly on each occasion 
according to its T&Cs. 
I thought that the marketing letter Mr C was sent in 2005 probably referred to there 
being no penalty for switching between funds, as opposed to the penalty Mr C said 
Aviva had imposed on him by switching his terminal bonus as well as the with-profits 
fund.
Looking at Mr Cs pension statements and illustrations from 2017 to 2020 it was clear 
that a rise in the fund value in January 2018 was out of line with the rest of the fund 
value fluctuations. So I was satisfied that this was an error on Avivas part and didnt 
think it should have to honour the (incorrect) higher amount. 
Mr C had raised the question of the pension plans performance as a result of 
receiving the illustrations  but I said we wouldnt normally uphold a complaint about 
performance alone because of the nature of investments which can fluctuate in value 
due to outside economic factors. 
There was no evidence to show that Mr C wouldnt receive the GARs when he drew 
his pension benefits.
Mr C needed to approach Aviva for an answer to his (new) complaint point about 
whether hes entitled to more than 25% tax free cash. 
I thought a payment of £500 for the raising of Mr Cs expectations from the incorrect 
pension statements, and the lack of illustrations provided when Mr C wanted to look 
into drawing his benefits, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr C didnt respond to my provisional decision, but Aviva confirmed it had paid Mr C a 
cheque for £500 compensation in September 2018 and had no further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further comments or submissions, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
Originally in 2003 Mr C instructed Aviva that on the assumption that I can now make a free 
redirection of future investment of my monthly contributions I shall be most grateful if you will 
arrange for future premiums to be invested as follows. 
This action was carried out in line with Mr Cs wishes, but in 2005 he again instructed Aviva 
to switch all the units currently in the with-profits fund into the balanced fund, and I shall be 
obliged if you will confirm to me when you have done this.
But in 2005, because hed requested all the units to be switched, Aviva calculated the 
value of his with-profit terminal bonus at that point and switched that into the other fund 
along with the rest of the with-profit fund he held. That was because Avivas T&Cs said:
 if the instruction under the switching option requires the replacement of or the allocation of 
units in the with-profits fund then on the exercise of this option:
(a) the value of such units in the with-profit fund, and
(b) the guaranteed rate of interest which will apply to any units so allocated will be 
determined at the time by the actuary.
Mr C says he didnt ask for the terminal bonus to be switched at that point and he didnt 
believe it was going to be switched  Aviva hadnt made him aware of that possibility. He 
says it should have done more to make him aware what would happen. 
But looking at the two requests Mr C made in 2003 and 2005 theres a distinct difference 
between his instructions. Its clear that one request is for future premiums to be invested 
and the other is to switch all units currently in the with-profits fund. So I dont think Aviva 
has done anything wrong in the way it actioned the requests  which I think were carried out 
in line with the T&Cs.  
And because Aviva was acting as the provider of Mr Cs pension plan and not his adviser, I 
dont think it had an obligation to make him more aware of the implication of switching the 
entire fund  other than what information was generally available through the T&Cs and 
other policy related documents. 
Mr C says he took up the option of switching his funds following a letter he received in 2005 
offering a free switch. He says therefore that no costs should have been imposed, which 
includes the financial penalty he suffered from the terminal bonus being calculated at that 
time and transferred to another fund. I do have some sympathy for Mr Cs position here and I 
can understand his frustration. I havent been provided with a copy of the letter from 2005, 
so I cant confirm whether it invited Mr C to a free switch of funds.  But Aviva still wasnt 
providing advice at this point, so I think Mr C needed to be aware of all the implications that 
might possibly apply to such a course of action. 
Mr C could have taken financial advice before such an action or consulted the T&Cs, but 
either way I dont think Aviva needed to do more. It wouldnt have been aware of Mr Cs 
objectives and needs for switching and it didnt provide a recommendation for him to do so. 
And I think it was likely that because it was a general mailshot type letter at the time, no 
individual customer circumstances had been considered by Aviva. 
The other part of Mr Cs complaint was regarding the inflated fund value he was notified of in 
January 2018, which he says raised his expectations of the performance of his plan. He said 
that following the correction he received in April 2018, he now considers the plan has 
performed poorly and hasnt proved to be a great investment.
In my provisional decision I explained that Id seen the annual statements and retirement 
illustrations from 2017 to 2020. Id noted the plans transfer value had increased by around 
48% in the January 2018 statement from around five months previously, and then fell by a 
similar amount in a statement around four months later. So I thought it was clear that an 
error had occurred within the January 2018 illustration, as the transfer value was significantly 
out of line with the other valuations Mr C received directly before and after. 
And Ive carefully considered the explanation Aviva gave for this error, namely that it 
included the full value of with-profit terminal bonus to that point, even though Mr C had 
switched to the managed fund in 2005.
This was now the subject of Mr Cs complaint and would most likely confirm the reason for 
the significant inflation to the pension fund value in early 2018. So Im satisfied it was a 
genuine error from Aviva  for which it apologised and paid Mr C compensation of £500, although I note that level of compensation also included payment for other errors which Ill 
return to later.
I can understand why, when Mr C became aware of the correct value of his plan, he would 
have carefully looked at its overall performance and became concerned that the returns 
were not as good as hed hoped for. But investment performance alone isnt a reason that 
wed generally use to be able to uphold complaints. Thats because the value of investments 
will invariably rise and fall because of reasons that are usually outside of the providers 
control  such as market performance and macro economic factors. In this case theres no 
reason to question the original suitability of the plan, so I dont think any poor performance is 
as a result of any failings by Aviva and I dont propose to ask it to do anything to compensate 
Mr C for the perceived poor performance of his plan. 
I said previously that Aviva had acknowledged it made an error within the 2018 pension 
illustration it sent Mr C, and paid compensation for any raised expectations he might then 
have had about his retirement provision.  Aviva also accepted that it didnt provide Mr C with 
some illustrations he requested when he was considering drawing his benefits, and that it 
didnt allow him to continue communication with the same adviser when he registered his 
complaint.
Ive considered the impact these errors had on Mr C and Ive concluded that the payment of 
£500 is within the range of what Id expect to see for errors such as these. So I think the 
payment was fair and reasonable within the overall circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr C raised two further complaint points around the GARs on his plan and the possibility of 
being entitled to more than 25% tax free cash at retirement. In my provisional decision I said 
that Mr C should contact Aviva to discuss these points more fully and should direct any 
complaint he has about them to Aviva in the first place. As Mr C hasnt responded to my 
provisional decision Im unable to conclude whether he has approached Aviva  so I shall 
leave it up to him to decide if he wants to take matters further.
My final decision
For the reason that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman