DRN-2282231
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the poor service he received from an approved repairer. Mr B 
made a claim for repairs under his car insurance policy with esure Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an incident and he made a claim to his insurer, esure in 
December 2019. esure arranged for Mr Bs car to be repaired by one of its approved 
repairers (AR). 
Mr B complained to esure as his car was returned to the AR twice after the first set of repairs 
for rectification works. Mr B and an independent assessor (IA) were both satisfied with the 
final set of repairs, carried out in March 2020. 
Mr B wanted esure to refund the excess he paid of £450 to compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused him. 
esure upheld Mr Bs complaint. To put things right it paid Mr B £250 compensation. 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He said he found a further 
issue with a damaged locking nut key. 
Our investigator didnt recommend this complaint be upheld as there was no evidence to 
show damage to the locking nut key was caused by the AR. But she thought esure should 
pay Mr B a further £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr B by the AR. Mr 
B said he borrowed his fathers car while he was waiting for his car to have rectification 
repairs carried out. 
esure didnt agree. It believes the compensation its paid is fair. In summary it says:

Mr Bs car was drivable for the times it was returned to him - and he was 
provided with a courtesy car while his car was being repaired. It provided a 
recording of a call between its engineer and Mr B where the engineer told Mr 
B it was safe for him to drive his car. So, it says the level of inconvenience for 
Mr B wasnt as significant as weve suggested.
There was an unavoidable delay over the Christmas period which was 
outside of their control. There was significant damage to Mr Bs car which 
meant it was going to take longer to repair. Overall the repair period was 
about 12 weeks. So, while esure accepts the experience Mr B had was below 
standard, it believes the compensation its paid is reasonable.
So esure wants an ombudsman to decide.
Mr B accepted the investigators findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its reasonable to expect a degree of inconvenience when having to deal with a claim. But in 
this case, I think the poor repairs carried out by the AR caused over and above a reasonable 
level of inconvenience for Mr B. I dont think the initial period of time from 19 December 2019 
to 4 February 2020 was unreasonable, given the repairs needed. And I think the AR kept Mr 
B updated during this time. There was some delay while the AR waited for parts to arrive. 
But this was outside of their control. 
However, Mr B contacted esure on 4 February 2020  the day his car was first returned to 
him  to complain about the finish to the car and he was unhappy that the brake discs had 
been replaced, but not the brake pads. He was unhappy that the interior of his car was dirty 
and provided images of his car to esure. 
Mr B said he didnt drive his car during this period. It was picked up on 12 February 2020 for 
rectification repairs and he was provided with a courtesy car. His car was returned to him on 
28 February 2020. But Mr B found new issues with wire missing from a light fitting and bolts 
missing from a driver door card. Mr B also identified new damage to the driver front alloy 
wheel.
esure has provided a recording of a call between an engineer and Mr B to discuss his 
concerns and how to put things right on 6 March 2020. Mr B asked if he was safe to drive his 
car, because he had concerns that if he used his car, the AR might dispute the damage he 
was claiming for. The AR advised Mr B that he could drive his car. 
esure says this shows that the level of inconvenience for Mr B doesnt reflect the 
recommended increase in compensation to £400. It says on both occasions following 
repairs; Mr Bs car was safe to drive as the damage was cosmetic. 
But I dont agree. I dont think it was unreasonable of Mr B to decide not to drive his car 
given his concerns that the brake pads hadnt been replaced following the first set of repairs. 
And while it was fortunate that he was able to borrow his fathers car, I dont think this means 
he wasnt inconvenienced. 
I think Mr B was put to considerable time, trouble and worry in having to check his car after 
three sets of repairs, to contact esure and provide evidence of his concerns, to be around for 
when his car was collected and when the IA inspected it, and in making alternative 
arrangements to use his fathers car in the periods between his car being brought back to 
him and being returned to the AR. 
So I think a fairer outcome is for esure to increase the compensation it pays to Mr B by a 
further £150, bringing the total award to £400. I think this is in line with awards we give for 
cases in similar circumstances. 
There isnt evidence to show that the damage to the locking nut key was most likely caused 
by the AR. And I think esure reasonably instructed an IA to inspect the work following the 
second rectification repairs that were carried out. This issue wasnt identified.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr B a further £150 compensation in addition to the 
£250 its already paid for the distress and inconvenience caused. esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If esure Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman