DRN-1122238
The complaint
Mr W complains that no interest and cashback credited his Santander UK Plc current 
account during May 2019.
What happened
Mr W had a 123 current account with Santander, which benefited from the addition of 1.5% 
interest and cashback if certain bills were paid via direct debit using the account. But, in 
order to qualify for interest and cashback, conditions needed to be met. One of these 
conditions was that Mr W needed to credit his account with at least £500 each month. 
Another condition was that there had to be at least two active direct debits set up from the 
account.
Until May 2019 Mr W was paid interest and cashback. During May he credited his account 
with over £500. But he cancelled two direct debits that were being paid from his account. 
These were cancelled on 18 and 21 May 2019, which was after the direct debits debited his 
account. Mr W thought that, because the direct debits had been active when the payments 
left his account, he was eligible to earn cashback and interest on his account.
Santander told Mr W its terms and conditions meant his account wasnt eligible to earn 
interest and cashback in May 2019. It said this was because his direct debits werent active 
on 28 May, which was when cashback was due to be calculated on his account. It said the 
critical date here was the date the cashback calculation was due to be made rather than the 
date the direct debits were taken from the account.
Mr W disagreed with Santanders interpretation of its terms and conditions and complained. 
He thought Santander should pay cashback and interest but it declined to do so  
maintaining its position that he hadnt met the conditions applicable to earn cashback.  
Mr W remained dissatisfied with Santanders approach to his complaint so he referred it to 
this service. Our investigator reviewed the eligibility criteria and agreed with Santander that 
the terms of Mr Ws account had been applied correctly. So they didnt think Santander was 
wrong not to pay interest and cashback. But Mr W didnt agree and requested a final 
decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr W is unhappy about what happened. He had earned a large 
amount of interest and cashback up to May 2019. Thereafter, his account stopped earning 
interest and cashback. I can appreciate the financial loss he feels hes suffered due to the 
interest and cashback he expected to earn on the account. But having thought about 
everything he and Santander have said, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr W so Ill explain why I dont think Santander made an error in not paying interest or cashback on Mr Ws account 
balance in May 2019. 
The terms and conditions for Mr Ws account clearly outline the eligibility criteria that apply if 
a customer wants to earn interest and cashback on their account balance. They state a 
customer must have at least two active direct debits set up, pay a monthly account fee and 
deposit at least £500 into the account each month.
Its accepted that Mr W met the eligibility criteria relating to the minimum monthly deposit 
and payment of the monthly account fee. Whats in dispute is whether he had at least two 
active direct debits set up.
Santander said Mr W doesnt qualify for interest or cashback payments on the balance 
because he didnt have any active direct debits set up when it calculated whether to pay 
cashback and interest on his account balance. And it directed our service and Mr W to 
clause 5.2 of the account terms and conditions, which state:
Youll need to ensure the direct debits are active on your account when we calculate your 
cashback.
But Mr W argues that he had two active direct debits set up on his account during the 
relevant period because payments debited his account via those direct debits. So, he feels 
he meets Santanders eligibility criteria to be awarded cashback and interest on his account 
balance. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen the cashback on Mr Ws account was due to be calculated 
on the 28th of each month. As his direct debits were cancelled before that date he doesnt 
meet the eligibility criteria. This is because on 28 May there were no direct debits active on 
his account.
Ill address now whether I think Santander made Mr W aware of the eligibility criteria. 
When Mr W opened his account he was provided with the key facts document which 
confirmed the terms and conditions hed need to meet in order to receive cashback and 
interest. Mr W wouldve had to accept these terms and conditions to proceed with his 
application before opening his account. And Im satisfied hes seen these terms and 
conditions because hes drawn our investigators attention to them. It follows that Im 
satisfied Santander explained how Mr W would need to operate his account if he wanted to 
qualify for interest and cashback payments.
Im also satisfied that Santander provided Mr W with the means and information for him to be 
able to ensure he was meeting the relevant criteria. Ive seen a copy of his statements, and 
can see that they clearly set out how much interest and cashback he is earning each month 
on his account balance. The statements also show the dates on which cashback and interest 
credit the account. And they remind the customer they must pay at least £500 into your 
account each month and have at least 2 active direct debits. 
As the account holder, it was ultimately Mr Ws responsibility to ensure he continued to meet 
the eligibility criteria if he wanted to qualify for the rewards this account offered him. He 
therefore needed to make sure at least two direct debits were active at the time cashback 
was to be calculated. I think it was reasonable to expect Mr W to be aware when the 
cashback and interest payments credited his account. This information was identifiable on 
statements but if Mr W was unsure he could have clarified this with Santander. Overall, Im satisfied Santander adhered to the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account. It 
didnt make an error in not crediting his account with interest and cashback. And I cant fairly 
hold it responsible for Mr Ws decision to cancel his direct debits at the time he did and the 
subsequent loss of interest and cashback he incurred.
In conclusion, while I acknowledge Mr Ws strength of feelings about these matters, I dont 
think Santander has made an error or acted unfairly. So I will not be ordering it to do 
anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman