DRN-2981698
Complaint
Mrs W has complained about loans which Oplo PL Ltd (previously known as 1st Stop 
Personal Loans Limited) provided to her. Shes said that the loans were unaffordable as she 
was in a hopeless and serious financial situation at the time.
Background
In February 2017, 1st Stop provided Mrs W with a loan for £4,000.00. The loan had a 24-
month term and an APR of 29.83%, which meant the total amount of £5,190.40, including 
interest of £1,190.48 was due to be repaid in monthly instalments of around £216. The loan 
was settled in full in October 2017. In March 2018, 1st Stop provided Mrs W with a second 
loan. This loan was for £5,500.00, had a 60-month term and an APR of 25.71%, which 
meant the total amount of £9,328.20, including interest of £3,828.20 was due to be repaid in 
monthly instalments of around £155.
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think the checks 
carried out before the loans were provided were reasonable and proportionate. She also 
thought such checks would more likely than not have shown Mrs W couldnt afford the 
required monthly payments and so upheld the complaint. 1st Stop didnt agree, so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mrs Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Ws complaint. These two 
questions are:
Did 1st Stop complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs W would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mrs W wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did 1st Stop act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way?
If I determine that 1st Stop did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs W and 
that she has lost out as a result, Ill go on to consider whats fair compensation.
Ill proceed to consider the first of the overarching questions.
Did 1st Stop complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs W 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place when 1st Stop lent to Mrs W required it to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether Mrs W could afford to make her repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
Any affordability checks should have been borrower-focused  so 1st Stop had to think 
about whether making the payments would cause difficulties or severe adverse 
consequences for Mrs W. In other words, it wasnt enough for 1st Stops lending decision to 
only consider the likelihood that it would get its money back, or that it had the ability to 
repossess the vehicle, without considering the impact making these payments would have 
on Mrs W.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check generally ought to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for a 
longer period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
should be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps between loans. Ive thought about all the relevant factors in this case.
1st Stops checks
1st stop says that it cross-checked Mrs Ws declaration of her monthly income against 
information held by credit reference agencies. It then added Miss Ws credit commitments to 
her living costs and then deducted this from her income. This left Mrs W with enough to 
make her payments at the time of each application.
Ive carefully thought about what 1st Stop has said. But simply obtaining information about a 
borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focused 
assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan.
 
Im concerned that 1st Stop appears to have ignored that Mrs W had had previous difficulty 
repaying credit, was using significant amount of her revolving credit facilities and had a significant history of payday and other high-cost lending. Furthermore, 1st Stops records 
appear to suggest that Mrs Ws existing debt to income was at 47% for loan 1 and 41% for 
loan 2. Im not saying that any of these things on their own meant that 1st Stop should have 
lent. But I do think that it needed to find out more about Mrs Ws circumstances to ensure 
that these loans were affordable.
So as well as asking Mrs W about the details of her income and carrying out credit checks, I 
think that 1st Stop needed to do more to verify Mrs Ws expenditure. It could have done this 
by asking for information such as bank statements or copies of bills. And when it obtained 
this information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mrs W did have enough 
funds to be able to make the payments to these loans.
 
As I cant see that 1st Stop did do anything further to verify Mrs Ws expenditure, I find that it 
didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before entering into 
these loans with her.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not have shown that Mrs W 
was able to sustainably make the repayments to her loans?
As proportionate checks werent carried out before this agreement was provided, I cant say 
for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that 
a proportionate check would have told 1st Stop that it was unfair to enter into this agreement 
with Mrs W. 
Mrs W has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied 
for the finance. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mrs W has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks 1st Stop mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from 1st Stop showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mrs Ws financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at 
the time. To be clear, Ive not looked at Mrs Ws bank statements because I think that 1st 
Stop ought to have obtained them before lending to her. Ive consulted Mrs Ws bank 
statements because they were readily available at this stage and they contain the 
information I now need to reconstruct the proportionate check 1st Stop should have but 
failed to carry out. 
As Ive already explained, 1st Stop was required to establish whether Mrs W could 
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. So I dont think the fact that 
the loan payments were made on time for a period are in themselves indicative that the 
loans were affordable. 
Furthermore, as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mrs W has provided in light of all of this. 
Mrs Ws bank statements show that she was receiving the salary shed declared. However, it 
was clear that she was in a cycle where she was continually borrowing to repay existing 
creditors. Equally, shed fallen into difficulty with creditors and owed money to at least five 
debt collectors and was living in her overdraft. Mrs W did manage to repay loan 1 early. But this was as a result of a successful Payment 
Protection Insurance complaint rather than because she came into a sustainable source of 
funds she could reasonably rely upon to repay her later loan. By the time of loan two        
Mrs Ws position wasnt much better. She still owed money to the same debt collectors, was 
still continually refinancing debts in an attempt to delay dealing with her unsustainable debt 
position and still reliant on her overdraft to make ends meet.
Ive seen what 1st Stop has said about Mrs Ws change of circumstances some 18 months 
into the term of loan two. But in truth any change here merely exacerbated the situation and 
brought matters to a head. And it doesnt alter the fact that Mrs W was already in an 
impecunious position before she was provided with these loans.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that Mrs W simply didnt have the funds necessary to 
make the monthly payments to these loans, without her borrowing further or it having a 
significant adverse impact on her financial position. 
So overall and having carefully considered everything, I think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have alerted 1st Stop to the fact that Mrs W simply wasnt able 
to sustainably make the payments to these loans. And so it follows that she wasnt in a 
position to take on these commitments.     
Did 1st Stop act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude 1st Stop acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some 
other way.  
So I find that 1st Stop didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 1 of this 
decision, I find that:
1st Stop didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs W to satisfy 
itself that she was able to make the payments to these loans; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mrs W 
was not in a financial position to make the repayments on these loans without it 
having a significant adverse impact on her financial position or her borrowing further;
1st Stop didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mrs W; 
The above findings leave me reaching the overall conclusion that 1st Stop unfairly and 
unreasonably entered into this hire-purchase agreement with Mrs W.
Did Mrs W lose out as a result of 1st Stops shortcomings?
As Mrs W was required to pay a significant amount of interest fees and charges on loans 
she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied she lost out because of what 1st Stop 
did wrong. So 1st Stop needs to put things right.Fair compensation  what 1st Stop needs to do to put things right for Mrs W
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for 1st Stop to put things right 
for Mrs W in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Mrs W paid on loan 1;
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £5,500.00 
originally lent. 1st Stop should treat any payments made should the new starting 
balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to 
Mrs W. If an outstanding balance remains on loan 2 after these adjustments, 1st Stop 
can use the compensation due for loan 1 to reduce and clear this balance.
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees, charges and overpayments 
from the date they were paid by Mrs W to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file as a result of loan 1. 
Any adverse information recorded about loan 2 should also be removed in the event 
Mrs W no longer has an outstanding balance with 1st Stop, once all adjustments 
have been made.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 1st Stop to take off tax from this interest. 1st Stop must 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
If after all of the above adjustments have been made (including offsetting the compensation 
for loan 1) an outstanding balance remains on loan 2, 1st Stop should set up an affordable 
payment plan for Mrs W. Id also remind 1st Stop of its obligation to exercise forbearance 
and due consideration if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain 
after all adjustments have been made to the account, and its the case Mrs W is 
experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Oplo PL Ltd should put 
things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman