DRN-3127383
The complaint
Mr O, through his representatives, complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd caused delays in his 
claim for his deceased wifes by incorrectly requiring a grant of probate. He says this caused 
him financial loss, distress, and inconvenience. He wants compensation. 
What happened
In late 2019 Mr Os wife sadly died before her pension with Zurich was in payment. Mrs O 
died outside of the United Kingdom (the UK), in the place where she was resident. 
In early February 2020 Mr Os representatives contacted Zurich to inform it of Mrs Os death. 
By letter dated 13 February 2020 Zurich wrote to Mr Os representatives indicating what it 
said needed to be provided in order for the lump sum under the pension plan to be valued 
and paid out. This included:
(a) a copy of the death certificate,
(b)  the grant of probate, 
(c) a claim form, and 
(d) identity verification documents for the claimant. 
The letter indicated that where the form referred to UK documents, the overseas locations 
equivalent would be acceptable. 
There was no requirement for a grant of probate where Mrs O died as there were no assets 
which required a grant, and no need to obtain one in relation to the pension plan, as this 
passed outside of Mrs Os estate. Mr Os representatives promptly informed Zurich of this 
but despite repeated communications, it took until mid-April 2020 for Zurich to acknowledge 
no grant of probate was required.
 
In its mid-April 2020 email, Zurich indicated that the final value of the units would be 
determined as at the day after the date Zurich received the original copy death certificate. It 
said it was unable to confirm the unit prices as it hadnt received Mrs Os death certificate.  It 
also said that the number of units would be based on the date that Mr Os representatives 
notified Zurich of Mrs Os death. 
In late April Mr Os representatives emailed Zurich. The representatives indicated that as per 
discussions, they were reluctant to forward Mrs Os death certificate until there was an 
agreement on a unit price that was fair and reasonable to Mr O as beneficiary. Without such 
agreement, the representatives said it was necessary to make a formal complaint as due to 
the completely unsatisfactory service from Zurich, Mr O would receive a significantly lower 
figure now than if Zurich had provided the correct information in a timely manner. If Zurich 
had provided the correct information Mr Os representatives couldve provided what was 
necessary for a claim by 21 February 2020. It also said, among other things, that the delays 
had caused Mr O distress at a time when he was still grieving. 
Zurich responded to the complaint in mid-June 2020. It upheld those parts of the complaint 
relating to delay and the distress caused to Mr O. It apologised for providing incorrect 
information about the need for a grant of probate.  Zurich said it would pay Mr O £100 in 
recognition of the trouble and upset caused.
It didnt uphold the complaint in relation to the final value of the plan. Zurich said Mr Os 
representatives had been made aware from the outset that Zurich required the death 
certificate (or a certified copy) before it was able to finalise the claim value.  
Mr O wasnt happy with this, and there were further communications between his 
representatives and Zurich, but these didnt change Zurichs position. 
Mr O brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into it. She thought Zurich made it plain from the first 
instance that no pension fund value could be given until a death certificate was provided. 
Since the fund value was provided fairly after receipt of the death certificate, Zurich didnt 
need to do anything more in terms of the value of the pension fund.
 
She did think Zurichs service was not at the level one would expect, especially at a time of 
loss and grief, and it had provided incorrect information which had caused delays.  She 
thought Zurich should pay Mr O a further £200 for trouble and upset on top of the £100 
already offered. 
Zurich said that whilst it did not think that the £100 offered for Mr Os trouble and upset was 
inappropriate, as a gesture of goodwill it would agree with our investigators proposal to pay 
a further £200.
Mr O, through his representatives, said he did not accept the findings. His representatives 
said the grant of probate issue caused an impasse of many months and Zurich didnt say 
that the death certificate could be submitted to freeze the account until much later by which 
time the value had fallen substantially because of covid.
The complaint then came to me for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The essence of this complaint is that M O has suffered a financial, distress, and 
inconvenience because Zurich provided incorrect information about the requirements for 
claiming the benefits under Mrs Os pension policy. There is no doubt that Zurich said it 
required a grant of probate before it could process the claim, and that Zurich took some 
months to finally establish this wasnt necessary, despite Mr Os representatives promptly 
informing Zurich of this. I dont doubt that this caused further distress for Mr O at a very sad 
time for him after the death of his wife. And it caused ongoing inconvenience due to the 
discussions about the probate requirement. Like our investigator, for these reasons I think 
the £100 Zurich offered for Mr Os distress and inconvenience was insufficient and that £300 
in total is appropriate. 
But I do not think the issues over the grant of probate caused Mr O a financial loss. Ill 
explain why. Ive looked carefully at Zurichs letter of 13 February to Mr Os representatives 
which set out the requirements for valuing and claiming the benefits under the pension plan. 
Paragraph 2 of that letter gives the current value of Mrs Os plan and then says:this figure is not guaranteed and the final value will be determined when we receive the 
original copy death certificate.
In my view this extract from the letter  makes it clear that the final value is calculated upon 
receipt of the death certificate. The death certificate was provided quite some months after it 
was available. I say this because Mr Os representatives have indicated that they had the 
death certificate by 20 February and couldve satisfied the requirements for claiming the 
pension (other than the grant of probate) by 21 February. 
I understand that Mr Os representatives say they were not told until quite some time later 
that the value could be frozen by the provision of the death certificate. While I dont doubt 
that there was a later communication along those lines, there is no dispute that the letter of 
13 February was received. As I think the valuation paragraph is clear, I cant fairly say that 
the probate issue caused the delay in the provision of the death certificate.
It also seems to me from the Notice of Death form accompanying the February letter that 
Zurich had communicated that it was possible to provide the death certificate without the 
grant of probate. The top of the form says:
Notice of Death under an (overseas place) Personal Pension Plan
The original copy Death Certificate, a certified copy of the Grant of Probate (please refer to 
the confirming your identity form enclosed for details of who can certify the copy), along 
with formal identification of the claimant(s) (please refer to the covering letter for details) 
must be attached. 
I can see that this could give the impression that everything must be submitted together. 
However in the first third of the first page of the form, there is a note stating that;
If a Grant of Probate or a Letter of Administration has not been provided, please confirm 
why. 
Mr Os representatives have themselves indicated that the requirements other that the grant 
of probate couldve been satisfied by 21 February, which includes the death certificate. 
Because of this I cant fairly hold Zurich responsible for the death certificate not being 
provided until much later. As the value of the units under the pension plan was calculated 
after the provision of the death certificate by Mr Os representatives, Im not going to ask 
Zurich to do anything further about that part of the complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that Zurich Assurance Ltd must pay Mr O £300 for his distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman