DRN-3543627
The complaint
Mrs W complains about two loans provided to her by Bamboo Limited, (Bamboo), which 
she says were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this service on Mrs Ws behalf by a 
claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken by 
Mrs W.
What happened
Bamboo agreed two loans for Mrs W. Loan 1 was for £1,000 and taken out in March 2019. 
Loan 2 was for £1,419.28 and taken out in September 2019. Loan 1 was repaid from the 
proceeds of Loan 2 and Mrs W repaid Loan 2 in August 2021. Some of the information 
Bamboo provided about the loans is shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan 
amountMonthly repayments Term 
(months)
1. 26/3/2019 10/9/2019 £1,000 23 monthly repayments of 
£61.73 and one monthly 
repayment of £61.7124
2. 10/9/2019 5/8/2021 £1,419.28 23 monthly repayments of 
£87.61 and one monthly 
repayment of £87.6324
Mrs W says that the provision of the loans was irresponsible and presented issues of 
unaffordability and credit risk. She was already repaying balances on seven other accounts. 
Bamboo should have been aware that her existing indebtedness was unsustainable and the 
provision of two loans was irresponsible when Mrs W still had significant liabilities with 
existing lenders. She said that Bamboos checks were insufficient.
In its final response letter, Bamboo said that it was happy it had acted appropriately. But it 
offered Mrs W £200 in full and final settlement of her complaint.
It appears that Mrs W rejected Bamboos offer.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said with regard to 
Loan 1 that from the information Bamboo gathered before Loan 1, there were signs that   
Mrs W was having problems managing her money. Bamboos credit checks showed that  
Mrs W had taken out four new accounts within the 12 months prior to the loan application 
with significant repayments. Mrs W was also often using her overdraft. The investigator 
thought that the checks Bamboo carried out demonstrated that Mrs W would have been 
unlikely able to make her repayments sustainably. With regard to Loan 2, the investigator 
said there wasnt any persuasive evidence to suggest that there had been any significant 
and sustained improvement in Mrs Ws financial circumstances since Loan 1. The 
investigator wasnt persuaded that the subsequent borrowing - which only increased Mrs Ws 
indebtedness when she was already struggling financially - was likely to have been 
sustainable and affordable either.
Bamboo disagreed and responded to the investigators view to say, in summary, that:
- It had received no evidence to substantiate the claim that Mrs W was struggling 
financially at the time of either loan. She had no missed payments, defaults, 
arrangements or county court judgements showing. It didnt believe that utilisation of an 
overdraft could be construed as a sign that someone was in financial difficulty.
- Although Mrs W was utilising her overdraft in the months leading up to Loan 1, 
sometimes the overdraft wasnt being utilised at all. Bamboo could also see that by the 
time of Loan 2, Mrs W had reduced her overdraft and was still able to keep comfortably 
within the lower limit.
- With regard to Mrs Ws recent borrowing, it wouldnt find it unusual for a consumer 
carrying out home improvements to have recently borrowed from other sources. 
- The loans were demonstrated to be affordable for Mrs W and left her with a buffer of 
£400 at the time of Loan 1 and £350 at the time of Loan 2 to be able to afford non-
essential expenditure and any shock payments. No evidence had been provided to 
show that its affordability assessments were inaccurate. Bamboo didnt consider that by 
lending £1,000 (on Loan 1) and a further £554.22 (on Loan 2), it had caused Mrs W to 
be overindebted in any way.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs W
and to Bamboo on 10 May 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when Bamboo lent to Mrs W the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
Id said that Bamboo would be aware of the relevant regulations and how we considered 
irresponsible lending complaints, so I didnt go into detail on those points. I summarised by 
saying that Bamboo needed to check that Mrs W could afford to meet her repayments 
without difficulty before agreeing credit for her. In other words, it needed to check she could 
make her repayments out of her usual income without having to borrow to meet them, while 
meeting her existing obligations and without the payments having a significant adverse 
impact on her financial situation. The assessments needed to take into account the nature of 
the credit and Mrs Ws circumstances. 
With this in mind, my main consideration was whether Bamboo treated Mrs W fairly when it 
agreed to lend to her. I had thought about whether Bamboo completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing her applications to satisfy itself that she would be able 
to make her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences. I had thought about 
the information it knew, and what it ought reasonably to have known. 
Loan 1
The loan was repayable by 23 monthly repayments of £61.73 and one monthly repayment of 
£61.71. The interest rate was 41%, (49.7% APR). If Mrs W made each payment when it was 
due, shed pay £1,481.50 in total. Id noted that Bamboo gathered some information from Mrs W about her income and 
accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. It assessed her living expenses using 
data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS). It had also carried out a credit check. 
Mrs W told Bamboo she was married and was a homeowner without a mortgage. She had 
no dependents. Her net monthly income was £1,242.  
Id noted that Bamboo didnt ask Mrs W for payslips or bank statements to verify her income 
but relied on an income verification tool from a credit reference agency. I hadnt seen the 
results of its income verification so couldnt say if this was accurate.
Bamboo didnt ask Mrs W for any information about her living costs. It had assessed these 
as £356.46 according to ONS statistical information. 
The lender had used information from its credit checks to assess Mrs Ws monthly credit 
commitments as £479.20.  
Bamboo had assessed Mrs Ws monthly disposable income as £417.47 after repayment of 
its loan. It said that Mrs W had sufficient disposable income to comfortably maintain the loan 
repayments.
I had reviewed Bamboos credit checks. Id noted that these showed that Mrs W had eight 
active credit accounts and that two of these had been opened in the previous six months. 
Her total credit balance was £8,237.
I could see that Mrs W had opened four accounts in the 12 months prior to the application for 
Loan 1. In that time, shed borrowed three loans totalling around £5,200. Two of these loans 
were taken out in the month prior to the loan application with total monthly repayments of 
£114. The fourth account was a mail order account with a balance of around £600. Id also 
noted that Mrs W had an overdraft limit of £1,600. Since November 2018 her overdraft had 
ranged between £1,198 and £1,310. But it appeared that Mrs W had then repaid her 
overdraft. Id asked the investigator to ask Mrs W if she had used one of her loans to repay 
it, but we didnt receive a response from Mrs W to this query. Id also noted that Mrs W had 
two other mail order accounts. One of these had a relatively large balance of £3,356 and a 
credit limit of £3,500. 
Although Mrs W appeared to have managed her overdraft and credit commitments 
satisfactorily with no missed payments, I thought Bamboo ought reasonably to have 
questioned why Mrs W, who apparently had a relatively high level of disposable income, had 
needed to take out so much recent credit.
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. Altogether I thought Bamboos 
credit checks ought to have caused it concerns as Mrs Ws finances appeared to be under 
pressure. This was shown on its credit checks by Mrs Ws relatively recent need for a 
relatively high amount of new credit as shown by the three relatively recent new loans and a 
mail order account. 
I also didnt think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on statistical information about      
Mrs Ws living costs without verifying them. Bamboo used ONS data, which was based on 
the finances and expenditure of the average consumer, to estimate Mrs Ws living expenses. 
But Mrs Ws multiple recent credit applications meant that Bamboo knew it was providing a 
loan to someone who fell outside this average portfolio. I didnt think that using ONS data  
which was unlikely to reflect the existing commitments of someone in Mrs Ws circumstances 
- was fair, reasonable, and proportionate. Altogether, I didnt think that Bamboo had carried out proportionate checks here. Its 
affordability assessment wasnt tailored to Mrs W and I thought it should have been in her 
circumstances.
In addition, Mrs W was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. And given the 
amount being lent and the length of the loan term, I thought Bamboo should reasonably 
have taken steps to build a clearer picture about Mrs Ws finances before providing her with 
an expensive loan in order to satisfy itself that Mrs W could repay the loan over a 24 months 
period. She was, after all, committing to repay £1,481.50 over that period. 
Bamboo was required to establish whether Mrs W could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the loan repayments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this 
by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mrs W, asking for copies of payslips, bills 
and/or receipts for her expenses and by asking her for more information about her existing 
credit commitments. Bamboo didnt say that it took steps to do this. So overall, I didnt think 
the checks Bamboo carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate. 
But that in itself didnt  mean that Mrs Ws complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have likely shown 
Bamboo that Mrs W couldn't afford the loan. So, Id asked the investigator to ask Mrs W for 
her bank statements and credit report to see what better checks would have shown Bamboo. 
I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that Bamboo should have done. But I thought 
looking at these documents gave me the best picture of what the lender should have seen.
Loan 2
Id noted that Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2. Mrs W borrowed Loan 2 
around five and a half months after taking out Loan 1. I thought Mrs Ws need for further 
credit just several months after Loan 1 might have caused Bamboo concern. Mrs W received 
around £500 from the loan proceeds. Loan 2 was repayable by 23 monthly repayments of 
£87.61 and one monthly repayment of £87.63. The interest rate was 41%, (49.7% APR). If 
Mrs W made each payment when it was due, shed pay £2,102.66 in total. The loan was to 
be used in part for car repairs. Mrs W repaid the loan on 5 August 2021.
Id noted that Bamboo spoke to Mrs W on the phone and gathered some information from 
her about her income and accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. Mrs Ws 
income was the monthly equivalent of £1,362 and she said she didnt pay accommodation 
costs. Mrs W had told Bamboo that she wanted a loan of £300 for car repairs. But Bamboo 
said that its minimum loan was £500 and so Mrs W received an amount of around £500. 
Bamboo didnt ask Mrs W for any information about her living costs. It assessed these as 
£364.62 according to ONS data. As Id said above, I didnt think the use of ONS data was 
appropriate in Mrs Ws circumstances. 
The lender said it used information from its credit checks to assess Mrs Ws monthly credit 
commitments as £429.82.  
I had reviewed Bamboos credit checks. Id noted that the checks showed that Mrs W still 
had eight active credit accounts. But Mrs Ws overall credit balance had increased to 
£13,103 and her loans balance had increased to £8,829.
I could see that Mrs W had taken out a relatively large loan for £6,735 four months before 
the loan application and this might have been used for debt consolidation as two of Mrs Ws loans referred to above had been repaid around that time. In addition, Mrs Ws current 
account overdraft of £1,179 was repaid around that time and the overdraft limit before    
Loan 1 of £1,600 had reduced to £750. But the overdraft balance had since risen to £403. 
And Mrs W still had a large mail order balance of £3,200. Id noted that the mail order 
provider had been reducing Mrs Ws credit limit from the £3,750 credit limit at the time of 
Loan 1 so that it was shown as the same as Mrs Ws account balance of £3,200. In addition, 
Mrs W had another mail order account with a slightly higher balance of £671 than the 
balance of £602 the account had at the time of Loan 1.
Id also noted that the checks showed that there were 11 credit searches in the three months 
prior to the loan application. I thought this suggested a recent need for credit.
Altogether I thought Bamboos credit checks ought to have caused the lender some 
concerns. Although Mrs W appeared to be managing her credit and overdraft satisfactorily 
with no missed payments, I thought the credit checks suggested that Mrs Ws recent 
finances still appeared to be under pressure. I thought this was shown by Mrs Ws relatively 
recent need for credit shown by the new loan for £6,735 in May 2019 which whilst it may 
have been used in part for debt consolidation, also increased Mrs Ws overall indebtedness.  
Id noted that Bamboo had calculated that Mrs W had a monthly disposable income of 
£479.95 after meeting the monthly proposed loan repayment of £87.61. But I thought 
Bamboo might have been concerned as to why someone with such a relatively large 
proportion of available income (according to its own calculations) would need to borrow 
expensive credit of around £500. 
Looking at everything in the round, I again didnt think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely 
on the ONS data and the information provided by Mrs W without verifying it. I thought 
Bamboo should again have reasonably taken steps to gain a more thorough understanding 
of Mrs Ws financial position in order to satisfy itself that she could repay Loan 2 without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any contractual or statutory 
payments and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial 
situation. So overall, I didnt think the checks Bamboo carried out on this occasion were 
reasonable and proportionate. So, I again asked the investigator to ask Mrs W for her bank 
statements from around the time of the loan and her credit report to see what better checks 
would have shown Bamboo.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did Bamboo make fair 
lending decisions? 
Loans 1 and 2
Despite our request for Mrs Ws bank statements from around the time of Loans 1 and 2 and 
her credit report, we hadnt received copies of these. So, I wasnt able to get a picture of 
what her financial situation was like at the relevant times. That meant I couldnt say that, if 
Bamboo had completed further checks, it wouldve found that Mrs W couldnt afford to repay  
Loans 1 and 2. So, based on the information Id seen, I wasnt able to conclude that Bamboo 
shouldnt have agreed to provide Loans 1 and 2 to Mrs W. But Id said that if Mrs W was able 
to provide us with the relevant copies of her bank statements, I would reconsider my 
decision. So, subject to any further representations by Mrs W or Bamboo, I didnt intend to 
say that Mrs Ws complaint about Loans 1 and 2 should be upheld.
Mrs W hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
Bamboo responded to my provisional decision to say that it had no further comments.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Mrs W and Bamboo have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Im sorry to disappoint   
Mrs W, but it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman