DRN-3732095
The complaint
Mr L complains that his SIPP (self invested personal pension) with Hargreaves Lansdown
Asset Management Limited (HLAM) was mis sold. Mr L says he shouldnt have been allowed
to transfer two personal pensions into the SIPP and make the investments he did and which
have led to financial losses.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 22 September 2022. Ive repeated here the circumstances 
which led up to Mr Ls complaint and my provisional findings. Ive corrected a typing error 
(for which I apologise) at the beginning of the second paragraph on the last page of my 
provisional decision. 
Mr L opened his SIPP with HLAM in 2011. He already had a Fund & Share Account and a
Stocks & Shares ISA (Individual Savings Account) with HLAM. Mr L received marketing
information from HLAM about transferring existing pension arrangements into a SIPP. A free
gift  a leather folder  was offered.
Mr L had two existing personal pension plans which he transferred into the SIPP. In total
£106,094.86 was transferred. Over a period of some years Mr L also made contributions to
the SIPP of, in total, £21,675.
In January 2020, via his then representative, Mr L complained to HLAM. In summary Mr Ls
representative said HLAM had failed in its due diligence responsibilities: the SIPP and the
underlying assets werent suitable or appropriate for Mr L. Hed also been allowed to invest
part of his SIPP portfolio in an unregulated investment.
HLAM didnt uphold the complaint. HLAM said the transfers into the SIPP were execution
only. HLAM hadnt given any advice or made a personal recommendation. HLAM referred to
the declaration Mr L had signed. After the transfers HLAM acted as an execution only broker
and provided no advice to Mr L about the investment or the administration of his SIPP. A
range of investment options was available, including funds, shares and bonds. Mr L was an
execution only client and made his own investment decisions. Hed invested in a variety of
asset classes. He didnt need to be a sophisticated or high net worth client to invest in
individual company shares listed on recognised exchanges or funds.
Mr L referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what had happened.
But she didnt think HLAM needed to do anything and she didnt uphold the complaint.
Amongst other things she said the fact sheet enclosed with HLAMs letter of 4 July 2011
gave Mr L sufficient information to decide whether to transfer his pensions. The declaration
which HLAM had pointed to and which Mr L had signed on 8 July 2011 confirmed that Mr L
had read the factsheet Important Information about transferring your pension and wished to
proceed; he agreed that HLAM hadnt given him advice; he understood he was responsible
for the decision to transfer and that he should get independent financial advice if he was
unsure if it was right for him; and hed checked whether hed be losing any employer
contributions or other benefits. And, in its letter dated 12 July 2011, HLAM said, This is a
non-advisory service. If you have any doubt as to the wisdom of transferring your pension
you should seek advice before proceeding. The investigator said HLAM hadnt given Mr L
any advice and he had the opportunity to get advice elsewhere.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators view. He referred to what hed paid into his SIPP,
including the amounts transferred. He said the product hadnt been right for him. HLAM had
persuaded him to transfer without explaining the high risks by offering him an incentive. He
considered that HLAM had been negligent and hadnt met the regulators standards which
had resulted in a large financial loss. Mr L added that his SIPP now only holds shares in one
company  a major UK bank  because he didnt want to lose any more money after several
companies hed invested in had gone bust. He was currently paying £20 pm into his SIPP to
cover HLAMs charges (around £16 pm). He was now 56 and he couldnt withdraw his
pension because of the losses.
The investigator considered Mr Ls comments but her opinion didnt change. She told Mr L
shed refer the complaint to an ombudsman.
Mr L forwarded an email hed received from HLAM in February 2022 saying his portfolio
wasnt as diverse as it could be and that a poorly diversified portfolio will be impacted much
more by market volatility than a well diversified one. There was a link to information about
how to improve diversification. Mr L said it was the only email hed ever received about his
SIPP. He had no idea where to invest his money and hed been left without any advice about
the risks he was taking by transferring his two existing personal pensions. The email was the
only advice HLAM gave him but it was too late. Mr L felt HLAM was trying to cover its
tracks.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business  HLAM  has done anything
wrong in respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made. And  if I find that
the business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or
distress and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, I need
to take account of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards,
codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under
the remit of the regulator, now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and previously the
Financial Services Authority (FSA). Ultimately, Im required to make a decision I consider to
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook, are a general statement of the
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). In my view,
Principles 2, 3 and 6 are of particular relevance here.
Ouseley J in R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC
999 (Admin) held it would be a breach of statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a
complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in
all the circumstances of a case. And Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application
of the Principles in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial OmbudsmanService [2018] EWHC 2878. Im therefore satisfied that the Principles are a relevant
consideration that I must take into account when deciding this complaint.
The Berkeley Burke judgment also considers section 228 of the Financial Services and
Markets Act (FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint.
The judgment of Jacobs J upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman
in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles and good
industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were required to be
taken into account.
On 18 May 2020 the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken account of both
these judgments when making this decision on Mr Ls case.
I acknowledge that COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 2.1.1R (A firm must act
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps
with certain of the Principles and that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High
Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA
(the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied
with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal didnt
so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS
claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that, in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. However, I think its important
to emphasise that I must determine Mr Ls complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion,
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, Im required to
take into account (and as Ive set out above) relevant considerations which include: law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in
Mr Adams statement of case.
I also want to emphasise here that I dont say that HLAM was under any obligation to advise
Mr L on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application or not
permitting an investment isnt the same thing as advising Mr L on the merits of investing
and/or transferring to the SIPP.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
These reports provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the
publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be
doing, also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice and
Im therefore, satisfied its appropriate to take them into account. Mr Hs SIPP was opened in
2011 and so predates some of the publications Ive mentioned. But those didnt introduce
new regulations or duties but, as Ive said, were reminders as to SIPP operators existing
responsibilities and how the regulator considered SIPP operators should act.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Ls SIPP
application and subsequent instructions, HLAM complied with its regulatory obligations as
set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence; to take reasonable care to
organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of
its customers; to treat them fairly; and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing
that, Im looking to the rules and the publications listed above to provide an indication of
what HLAM couldve done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Taking account of the factual context of this case, it is my view, in order for HLAM to meet its
regulatory obligations (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it shouldve undertaken
sufficient due diligence checks to consider whether to accept or reject particular applications
for investments, with its regulatory obligations in mind.
Ive set out above how it came about that Mr L opened a SIPP with HLAM. He was already a
customer of HLAM and he was sent information about other products and services which
HLAM offered. In other cases weve seen, theres an introducer who is usually unregulated.
Typically a consumer will receive an unsolicited phone call from an introducer about
transferring existing pensions to a new arrangement, usually a SIPP. Often it will be to allow
investment into a particular fund or scheme which may be involve non mainstream,
unregulated and higher risk funds. We might say that the SIPP provider ought to be cautious
in that sort of situation, particularly if it receives a number of applications from the same
source.
But, in Mr Ls case, things didnt happen that way. Theres no introducer involved and Mr L
knew about HLAM and the products it offered  including a SIPP into which certain types of
existing pensions could be transferred  because of his existing customer relationship with
HLAM. I dont think there was anything which ought to have given HLAM any concerns about
the SIPP application and the transfers - HLAM had no need to undertake any checks on any
introducer as no introducer was involved.
We havent seen everything that Mr L may have been sent in the way of marketing
information. I dont think thats surprising, given that Mr Ls SIPP was opened in 2011. But it
seems he did get the leaflet Consolidate your pension under one roof which refers to
transferring existing pension plans into the SIPP. The information set out was fairly brief but
it did ask applicants to read the key features, available on HLAMs website.
I dont think the leaflet said anything which was misleading. It said that if Mr L was happy
making his own decisions he could transfer the types of pensions listed without receiving
advice. I bear in mind that Mr L received a free gift but I dont think, given its relatively
modest value, that can be regarded as a significant incentive for Mr L to transfer.
Im satisfied that Mr Ls relationship with HLAM was non advisory. HLAM didnt give Mr L any
advice about setting up his SIPP, transferring his existing pensions, making contributions tothe SIPP or as to how his SIPP fund should be invested. All that was done on an execution
only basis  that is all the transactions were undertaken by HLAM on Mr Ls specific
instruction and where HLAM hadnt given Mr L any advice on the merits of the transactions
and/or the investments he made.
The declaration Mr L signed on 8 July 2011 confirmed that. In signing it Mr L agreed,
amongst other things, that HLAM hadnt given him any advice and that he understood he
was responsible for the decision to transfer and that he should get independent financial
advice if he was unsure if it was right for him. And the letter HLAM sent him on 12 July 2011
said that it was a non advisory service and, if Mr L had any doubts about if he should
transfer, he should seek advice before going ahead.
Ive also considered if the investments Mr L made, again on an execution basis, shouldve
led HLAM to query things or carry out further checks. As Ive said above, sometimes an
investor will give instructions to invest in specialist, esoteric or unregulated investments. That
may give rise for concern, particularly if the amount to be invested is large and/or a
significant proportion of the investors pension fund. And when those types of investment are
usually only regarded as suitable for certain types of client  typically sophisticated or high
net worth investors. In that sort of situation a SIPP provider, acting in its clients best
interests, might be expected to undertake extra due diligence checks before proceeding with
the clients instruction to invest.
But, again, that wasnt the situation here. Although Mr Ls then representatives letter of
complaint refers to unregulated investments, HLAM has provided a list of Mr Ls SIPP
transactions. They dont include any unregulated collective investment schemes or other
specialist funds. HLAM has told us that originally Mr L invested in (mainstream) funds but he
then began to day trade shares in both blue chip FTSE100 companies and smaller AIM
(Alternative Investment Market) companies. From the list of trades HLAM provided, the
shares were typically UK retailers, energy suppliers and blue chip companies. They were all
mainstream, traded on recognised exchanges and readily realisable. I think Mr L had some
previous experience in stocks and shares  his Fund & Share Account and his Stocks &
Shares ISA. I dont think the nature of the investments Mr L made was such that shouldve
prompted HLAM to undertake further due diligence checks.
Ive considered the email Mr L hed received from HLAM in February 2022 about his portfolio
not being as diverse as it could be. Mr L has described that as belated advice. But I dont
think it was advice. Nor was it a personalised communication  that is aimed at Mr L in
particular. I think it was more general and emailed to a larger group or category of customers
whose portfolios HLAM had identified as possibly being insufficiently diversified.
I note the email included the following:
This email is designed to help investors build and maintain a diversified portfolio, but it isnt
personal advice. If youre not sure what to do, ask for financial advice. All investments go up
and down in value, so you could get back less than you put in.
I think that made it clear that the email wasnt advice. I dont agree that it shows that HLAM
was trying to make up for earlier poor advice. As Ive said, I dont think HLAM had given any
advice.
Im sorry Mr L has lost money following the transfer of his two existing personal pensions 
into his SIPP. Hes bought shares in several companies which failed. Hes also undertaken 
share day trading and lost money there too. And the value of the shares he currently holds is 
less than he paid for the them. I appreciate that Mr Ls losses dont only impact on him but on his family too and his ability to support them. And that, with hindsight, Mr L wouldve been 
better off had he retained his two existing personal pensions.
But I can only tell HLAM to pay compensation to Mr L if I think HLAM did something wrong
and which means it is responsible for the losses Mr L has suffered. Unfortunately for Mr L,
for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that was the case. HLAM did have to treat its
customers fairly and act in its clients best interests. But given what Ive said above about the
circumstances in which Mr L came to open his SIPP and transfer in his existing pension
plans and make the investments he did, I dont think there was anything which shouldve
caused HLAM to consider if it should accept Mr Ls business and carry out the instructions
he gave. I dont think in the circumstances of this case that Mr L has been treated unfairly or
other than in accordance with HLAMs regulatory obligations, including the Principles for
businesses.
HLAM accepted my provisional decision. Mr L remained unhappy. Ive listened to his 
telephone conversation with the investigator. She explained that Id issued a provisional 
decision setting out what my decision was likely to be and why and that Id consider further 
comments. 
Mr L explained how hed come to have a Stocks & Shares ISA with HLAM and that it wasnt 
because he wanted to invest in shares. Hed got some marketing information in the post 
from HLAM about pensions with an offer of a free wallet. He thought it seemed a good idea 
but he needed to have an account with HLAM in order to transfer his pensions to a SIPP so 
he'd opened the ISA. Mr L stressed that he hadnt understood the risk of the investments he 
went on to make. 
Mr L said he thought the outcome of his complaint mightve been different if hed had a third 
party to represent him. Initially a claims management company was acting for him but its 
situation was changing and hed been asked to sign papers instructing solicitors. Hed seen 
a newspaper article which said he didnt need to be represented if he complained to us and 
he thought he could do it on his own. He now felt hed have had a better chance of success 
if hed had a third party, with more knowledge than he had, to back him. 
He said his wife worked part time in a job that wasnt well paid, he had a daughter to support 
and, given his age, he couldve accessed his pension benefits but he was currently unable to 
do so as hed lost money in risky investments which HLAM had failed to warn him about. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr L considers the outcome of his complaint may have been different if hed been 
represented by a third party. But wed approach the complaint in exactly the same way 
whether or not Mr L was represented. Wed establish the facts surrounding the complaint 
and what HLAM did (or didnt do) and whether HLAM had acted as it shouldve done in 
accordance with its legal and regulatory duties and its obligations to treat Mr L fairly. We 
have an inquisitorial remit which means we arent confined to just considering the specific 
points the consumer has actually made. We take a broader approach and we will use our 
knowledge, expertise and industry knowledge to look into things more widely. 
Ive set out in full above my provisional conclusions and these form part of this decision. I did 
say that Mr L appeared to have some previous experience in stocks and shares. Mr L has 
explained how his Stocks & Shares ISA came about and when. And HLAM has confirmed 
that Mr Ls ISA was opened on 25 February 2011. His Fund & Share account had been opened a month earlier, on 25 January 2011. Mr Ls SIPP was opened on 3 March 2011 and 
the transfers into the SIPP were made a few months later. Giving the timings, I accept the 
fact that Mr L had an ISA and a Fund & Share account when he opened his SIPP doesnt 
evidence previous share dealing experience. 
But I still dont think that means Mr Ls complaint can be upheld. In a nutshell Mr Ls 
complaint centres on whether HLAM had any duty to carry out further checks or due 
diligence before accepting his non advised or execution only application to open a SIPP and 
carrying out his subsequent execution only instructions  to transfer in two personal pension 
plans and make the various investments hed decided on. 
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision and in the absence of any unregulated 
introducer and given that Mr L didnt want to make specialist or esoteric investments, I dont 
think HLAM had any duty to query things with Mr L or carry out further checks. HLAM had 
made it clear to Mr L that no advice was being provided and that hed be responsible for the 
decisions he made. As Ive said, HLAM did have to treat its customers fairly and act in its 
clients best interests. But I dont think there was anything which shouldve caused HLAM to 
consider if it should accept Mr Ls business and carry out the execution only instructions he 
gave. Thats still my view and taking into account that Mr L may not have had previous 
experience in stocks and shares. 
I cant say, in the circumstances of this case, that Mr L has been treated unfairly or other 
than in accordance with HLAMs regulatory obligations, including the Principles for 
Businesses. Despite my sympathy for Mr L, Im unable to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman