DRN-3728214
The complaint
Mr W complained that in 2002 he was underpaid a terminal bonus by Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited (when it was trading as AXA Sun Life) and he is unhappy with the amount Aviva 
has paid by way of redress.
What happened
In 2017, Aviva took over administration of Mr Ws AXA Sun Life With-Profit policy. 
It identified a number of customers who had held 'With Profits' policies where the terminal 
bonus was miscalculated. This included Mr W. 
On 23 June 2021, Aviva sent Mr W a letter informing him that when his AXA Sun Life policy 
came to an end on 5 August 2002 his terminal bonus had been underpaid. The letter also 
included a cheque for £100.30 to correct this error.
On 2 July 2021, Mr W told Aviva he didnt agree its calculations. He said the underpayment 
in 2002 had been £64.29 and, after adjustment for inflation, the equivalent amount Aviva 
should pay him for this was over £100. And he didnt agree with the interest applied. 
On 8 July 2021, Aviva sent a final response letter explaining why it didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
This prompted Mr W to bring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint. Based on the information she was provided with, 
she thought that the £100.30 Aviva sent to Mr W had been made up as follows:
- £55.29 - the amount he was underpaid by 
- £45.01 - gross interest
- less £9.00 - income tax.
She felt that whilst the redress of £55.29 for the underpayment was fair, interest hadnt been 
paid in line with her expectations. She suggested that 8% simple interest per year would be 
more appropriate to reflect the cost to Mr W of having been deprived of the underpayment.
She said Aviva hadnt done anything wrong when it made a tax deduction of £9.00 as it was 
required by law to deduct income tax at the lower rate from this interest and pay it to HMRC. 
But she felt it was fair and reasonable to recommend that Aviva should pay Mr W £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience of having to contact HMRC regarding the tax.
Aviva initially confirmed that it would accept our investigators view and arrange for the 
additional payments to be made once it received a final determination.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view. He stood by his original complaint to Aviva  
amongst other things, he was certain that the underpayment hadnt been properly 
calculated. 
When our investigator followed this up with Aviva, it agreed that Mr W had been right to 
dispute the calculation and said that its actuarial team had supplied incorrect figures. It 
agreed that, as Mr W had said, he had been underpaid by £64.29 (not £55.29). It said that 
8% interest on this figure, as recommended by our investigator, to cover the period from 
5 August 2002 (the date of termination of his policy) up to 23 June 2021 (when the cheque 
was issued) worked out at £161.69.
It sent its new calculation:
Once you deduct what has already been paid = £161.69 - £100.30 - £9.00 = £52.39
Rolled up from 23 June 2021 to March 2022 = £55.48 (gross)
Aviva told our investigator that as 8% interest had been rolled up to the date of payment, it 
now didnt feel any trouble and upset payment was due.
Mr W didnt feel this was satisfactory. He pointed to the fact that Aviva had provided 
incorrect figures to the Ombudsman, which he said served to underline the inefficiency with 
which it had dealt with the matter and he asked me to take this into account when making 
my decision.
He said the main reason for his complaint was that the original amount owed in 2002 was 
£64.29 and so Aviva should take inflation into account and pay him an equivalent amount at 
todays value - plus loss of interest. He supplied Bank of England figures to support his 
calculations. 
He also felt that £100 was a reasonable compensatory payment for the length of time taken 
to resolve an error made in 2002. He told us other financial businesses had volunteered 
compensatory payments in this region very quickly and without needing to involve the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr W discussed a number of complaint issues with our investigator. But it seems to me 
that the crux of Mr Ws complaint now turns on what its fair and reasonable to expect Aviva 
to do to put things right given that:
its not in dispute that Aviva made a mistake when it underpaid Mr W a terminal 
bonus in 2002, and 
its now been settled that the underpayment amount (leaving aside the question of 
interest and any deductions) was initially wrongly assessed and should have been 
recorded as £64.29 when calculating what Aviva owed Mr W.
So, whilst Ive read and considered the whole file, like our investigator I will concentrate on 
what Aviva should do to put things right. Its not entirely clear why Aviva chose to review terminal bonus payments and write to Mr W 
about the error it had found in 2021. I am mindful however that  Aviva did not take 
responsibility for the administration of Mr Ws policy until 2017, at which point it was 15 years 
since the policy had matured. I wouldnt necessarily have expected the terminal bonus error 
to have become evident to Aviva soon after it took on the policys administration and 
therefore I dont consider this delay rectifying the situation is a reason for me to award 
compensation.
My focus is on what I think its fair and reasonable to expect Aviva to have done, once it had 
identified this error.
Having spotted that Mr W was underpaid when he was sent his terminal bonus, Aviva seems 
to have acted reasonably promptly to locate and contact Mr W. It apologised for the error 
and sent him a cheque for an amount that reflected what it thought the underpayment had 
been plus interest worked out according to a benchmark it relied on. I think that was done in 
a genuine attempt to try and provide fair redress.
Its unfortunate that Avivas original calculations were incorrect, based as they were on an 
error that resulted in the wrong underpayment figure. Whilst the resulting amount involved is 
just a few pounds difference, I can see that from Mr Ws point of view, this has simply 
reinforced his loss of confidence in Aviva generally. 
Our approach to redress is to try and put Mr W into the position he would have been in had 
the underpayment in 2002 not occurred. Of course, thats impossible to say with complete 
certainty  so the Ombudsman approach is to take an overview and settle cases on the 
basis of what is fair and reasonable.  
Both Aviva and Mr W have their own view on what that means in practice. Mr W wants me to 
take into account inflation and base any award on an equivalent figure today for the amount 
£64.29 was worth in 2002  plus interest. For its part, Aviva originally based its interest 
calculation on Bank of England base rate plus 1% (although it accepted our investigators 
recommendation to pay simple interest at 8% per year when it re-worked its calculations).
With respect to both parties, whilst I can understand there is scope for taking different 
approaches, I am guided by the general approach taken by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service in situations like this.
I havent been provided with enough information to be able to say precisely how the £64.29 
underpayment impacted on Mr W or what he would have done with the money had he not 
been deprived of its use. So I cant identify any specific financial loss arising out of the 
opportunity Mr W lost to spend that money over the years. 
In terms of interest, as our investigator explained in her view letter, the Ombudsman 
considers that an award of 8% simple interest on the amount unpaid is, broadly speaking, a 
fair and reasonable way to put Mr W back in the position he would have been in had the 
underpayment not occurred. This is to reflect the fact that Mr W has been deprived of the 
use of that money. 
Aviva seems now to agree this approach. Its a different way of looking at things to the way 
Mr W prefers  but I think its a fair and reasonable way to put things right for Mr W rather 
than using the inflationary measure he has suggested.
I dont think it would be fair to make an award reflecting both an inflationary correction as 
well as interest on top of that, as Mr W has asked me, since this would effectively amount to 
providing redress twice over. As far as I am aware, Aviva hasnt paid anything more to Mr W since showing us its 
recalculation of interest at 8% on the correct amount of underpayment as it has not accepted 
our investigators overall proposed resolution. If thats right, to be clear, I think its fair that 
Aviva should pay interest up to the point this complaint is settled. This reflects the fact that 
Mr W has still been deprived of the use of money that should have been paid to him at an 
earlier date.
I think Avivas unwillingness to pay any award for non-financial loss fails to acknowledge just 
how frustrating this whole experience has been from Mr Ws point of view. Our investigator 
recommended Aviva should pay £50 to Mr W to reflect the distress and inconvenience he 
was put to when he needed to contact HMRC regarding the tax deduction Aviva had made  
which was based on an incorrect underpayment figure. That seems fair to me. 
I also think that Aviva shouldve done things better once it had established that it owed Mr W 
money  whilst an actuarial mistake made when calculating the underpayment might be 
understandable, it was only Mr Ws persistence that led to the error ultimately being 
acknowledged. 
Had Aviva followed up his concerns sooner, I think its likely the error wouldve been 
identified earlier. 
I think that a further award of £50 for the trouble he was put to in order to get this corrected 
is fair compensation in all the circumstances. 
Im aware that Mr W has mentioned a number of other points of concern during the course of 
this complaint. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main issues that affect the 
outcome of his complaint. If I havent commented on everything Mr W has said during the 
course of this complaint, thats because I dont feel theres anything more I can usefully add 
to what has already been said by the investigator.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr W has sent some further comments and confirmed that he accepts my provisional 
decision.
I have heard nothing further from Aviva and the deadline for responses has now passed so 
I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr W for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Aviva should do the following and work out redress as follows: - refund the £64.29 underpayment (A)
- if it hasnt already paid Mr W 8% simple interest* on this amount since it sent its 
revised calculation on 18 March 2022, it should work out and pay Mr W 8% simple 
interest on the £64.29 underpayment from 5 August 2002 (the policy termination 
date) up to the date of settlement of this complaint (B)
- set out its workings so Mr W can see how the calculations have been done
- pay Mr W £100 compensation (C)
- Aviva should total A + B + C, and it is then able to deduct the £100.30 cheque and 
any other payment sent to Mr W already. Aviva should pay any outstanding balance 
to him.
*HMRC requires Aviva to deduct tax from this interest. Aviva should give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted  Mr W has confirmed he 
requires this to be done.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to take the steps I've set 
out above to put things right for Mr W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman