DRN-4370440
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Vodafone Limited contacted him after hed missed a 
payment towards a fixed sum loan agreement he had with it.  
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties. So I wont repeat 
everything here. But, in summary, Mr W has fixed sum loan agreements with Vodafone. He 
says he missed a payment and was unhappy Vodafone wrote to him to say it would place a 
default marker with the credit reference agencies. He complained to Vodafone and said the 
email caused him distress, and it had not taken into account his vulnerabilities that it was 
aware of. 
Mr W says Vodafone wasnt allowed to record a default unless hed missed three payments. 
So when it wrote to him about adding a default after one missed payment this wasnt fair. 
Mr W requested compensation for the distress and inconvenience as well as an apology. He 
also requested the Financial Ombudsman ask Vodafone to change its wording to known 
vulnerable customers and to not use scare tactics to get customers to pay. Mr W says he 
was aware of the balance, but hes unhappy with the notice saying a default would be 
registered. 
Vodafone didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr W referred it to our service to consider. One of 
our investigators looked into things but didnt make any recommendations. She said shed 
seen that Vodafone had noted Mr Ws vulnerabilities. Shed also looked at the 
correspondence and noted Vodafone had explained to Mr W his account was at risk of being 
passed to a debt collector (after a missed payment). Shed also noted it had sent a notice of 
sums in arrears. But she couldnt see anything sent to Mr W that said hed be defaulted after 
missing one payment. 
Mr W didnt agree with the assessment. He said his complaint was that he was only one 
month in arrears when he received an email saying Vodafone will register a default if he 
failed to pay the arrears. Our investigator said shed not seen this is what happened so 
asked for a copy of the email, but Mr W wasnt able to supply it. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has complained about Vodafones contact in relation to a fixed sum loan agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement and Im able to consider complaints relating 
to these sorts of agreements. 
I can understand why Mr W would have been worried if Vodafone told him it was going to 
default him after one payment. While not the case for every scenario, with regards to 
recording defaults the industry guidance says generally this may occur when the customer is 
three months in arrears. 
Ive seen various letters that Vodafone sent to Mr W off the back of missed payments. As our 
investigator pointed out, I can see Vodafone notified Mr W of missed payments and said it 
may pass the account to a debt collection agency if it wasnt brought back up to date. While I 
appreciate these sorts of letters can be worrying, I dont think the content of them was 
unreasonable given Vodafone is able to pass accounts to debt collectors in certain 
scenarios. In any event, Mr W has complained about being told a default would be 
registered. So this is what Ive concentrated on when reviewing his complaint.  
The problem I have is that Mr W hasnt been able to show us the contact hes referred to that 
says Vodafone would default him after one missed payment. Ive reviewed the documents 
that Vodafone has sent us. And looked for mention of it in the contact notes its supplied, but 
Ive not seen that Vodafone told him it would do that. 
In the absence of sufficient evidence, I dont find I have the grounds to say that Vodafone 
has acted unfairly with regards to saying a default would be recorded at an unreasonable 
time. So Im not going to be directing it to take any action. 
Id recommend Mr W speaks to Vodafone about any outstanding balances. And Id remind 
Vodafone to treat him with forbearance and due consideration if there are any arrears hes 
unable to clear straight away. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman