DRN-1725482
Complaint
Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage in 1991 with National & Provincial Building Society and 
were sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy at the same time. They 
say they were mis-sold this type of cover.
Santander UK PLC is now responsible for answering the complaint, so to keep things 
consistent, Ill mainly refer to Santander throughout this decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs A its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I certainly dont doubt Mr and Mrs A now honestly and genuinely feel the MPPI was mis-sold 
to them. But these events were a long time ago and there simply isnt enough for me to 
agree that the MPPI was mis-sold to them.
The mortgage and PPI have long since closed and these events are from nearly 30 years 
ago. However, Ive seen a few similar complaints to this and Ive seen the application 
process that was normally used to get the MPPI with these types of mortgage. So even 
though I might not have Mr and Mrs As actual form, my experience is that they would have 
been presented with a yes / no choice on the mortgage application form when it mentioned 
MPPI. In addition to this, I know there was often a further step required if MPPI was to be 
added and this took the form of a specific and separate MPPI application leaflet which 
allowed consumers to choose the type of protection they required and who was to be 
covered. 
So Im afraid all these things do tend to show that Mr and Mrs A probably would have known 
they had a choice about the MPPI and that they didnt have to buy it if they didnt want to. 
Knowing what I do about these types of sales I think the policy was probably recommended 
to them. This means it ought to have been suitable for their needs. Overall, I think it was. 
I say this because Mr and Mrs A appear to have been eligible for the cover and not caught 
by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price seems to me to 
be comparable with similar policies from around that time period and at around £6 per 
month, Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for them. Mr and Mrs A said they didnt need the cover because they had sickness protection through 
work. I understand the point being made, but this doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable. The 
mortgage was secured against Mr and Mrs As home and so the consequences of them not 
being able to keep up payments could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, 
the cover was payable for up to 24 months. This would have been in addition to  and for 
much longer than - any other means they already had in place at the time. 
So although I cant say why Mr and Mrs A decided to buy this policy, I dont think it being 
recommended it to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
Santander also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm after such a long time if they were told everything they ought to 
have been. But I think the costs of the cover were probably set out on the forms they would 
have been given, as were some brief details about what was covered. So I think they had 
enough information on which to make an informed decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. And I dont direct Santander UK PLC to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman