DRN-3156436
The complaint
Mr L complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited has started taking an
additional £150 a month from his whole-of-life policy, which has reduced the investment
element. He was told this was caused by a technical issue, but Scottish Friendly hasnt
explained why this happened or when it will be resolved.
What happened
Mr L has a whole-of-life policy with Scottish Friendly, which hed taken out with a
predecessor business in 1988. The policy has a sum assured of £96,805 and a monthly
premium of £100. In January 2021, Mr L received his annual statement and noticed that the
charges being applied were higher than he expected.
Scottish Friendly apologised and said that the fees and charges being deducted from Mr Ls
policy were higher than expected because of an error with its administration system. It said it
was working on a solution to this and, once resolved, the units in Mr Ls policy would be
amended to make sure he wouldnt be financially disadvantaged in the long term. It arranged
to send Mr L a payment of £100 by way of an apology.
However, when Mr L brought his complaint to our service, Scottish Friendly said that what it
had told Mr L wasnt right and that the charges applied to his policy were correct and in line
with the terms and conditions. It said that the policy was being impacted by mortality charge
rates which increase as the policyholder gets older. It said this rate was applied to the
difference between the sum assured and the value of the policyholders units, so the less
units held, the higher the charge would be. It said the policy had not been amended in any
way since his policy was transferred to it. Scottish Friendly offered to pay Mr L a further £75
because of this incorrect information.
The investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and agreed that Mr L had been given the
wrong information. But he said that the charges wouldve applied to Mr Ls policy even if hed
been told the right information when he queried them. The investigator said that Scottish
Friendlys initial response wouldve given Mr L false hope that the units in his policy would be
recalculated, but he believed the £175 offered by Scottish Friendly was fair and reasonable.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that Scottish Friendly had lied in saying
there was a system problem which it was aware of. He said his death benefit would be
affected and questioned why he had been told his policy was on target five years previously
but had not received anything about the annual reviews since then. He said he could see no
reference to the mortality charge rate in his policy provisions. He felt this should have been
brought to his attention and so he was mis-informed and mis-led.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision in October 2021. In summary, I said I thought that the £175 
Scottish Friendly had offered Mr L was fair.
I said I could understand why Mr L was concerned to see the charges being applied to his 
policy when he received his annual statement. Unfortunately, he then received the incorrect
information from Scottish Friendly that this was a result of a technical issue which would be
rectified.
On my behalf, the investigator asked Scottish Friendly for more details about why Mr L
wouldve been told this. And it explained that it did have an issue affecting some of its
policyholders, but this had been incorrectly attributed to Mr Ls policy when it hadnt affected
him. It explained that the charges have been applied correctly to Mr Ls policy, and the
reason that they are now higher is because the cost of providing the life cover under the
policy now outweighs the premium Mr L is paying.
I said that Mr Ls policy is reviewable, which means that a review is carried out periodically to 
make sure that the level of premium remains enough to continue to provide the same level of
benefits. Scottish Friendly provided previous reviews of Mr Ls policy from 2012, 2016, 2017 
and 2018, and each of these showed that, at that time, his £100 monthly premium was 
enough. I said that, as I understood it, Scottish Friendly had not yet performed a review of 
Mr Ls policy after taking over the administration of it.
I said I appreciated that Mr L has said that his policy documentation doesnt refer to a 
mortality charge rate. However, the policy provisions I looked at from the original provider did 
have a section about unit allocations which says:
At the beginning of each Policy Month the Company shall debit to the Policy a number of
Accumulator Units of a particular Fund obtained by dividing the proportion appropriate to that
Fund as shown in the Schedule, of the expected cost of mortality for the following month
calculated as follows
(i) the Sum Assured less the Value of Units (Inclusive of any Units allocated in accordance
with (a) above in respect of any Basic Premium then payable and due), multiplied by,
(ii) one twelfth of such annual rate of mortality as the Actuary of the Company may in his
absolute discretion deem to be equitable.
Scottish Friendly explained that a charge for the expected cost of mortality (providing the life 
cover) is applied to the difference between the sum assured and the value of the 
policyholders units. The cost of providing this cover will be higher as a policyholder ages,
and this impacted upon the deductions being made to Mr Ls policy to carry on providing
him with the same sum assured.
Taking everything into account, I didnt think the deductions from Mr Ls policy had been 
applied incorrectly. But I did think Mr L was provided with incorrect information which gave 
him the expectation that this was due to a technical issue which would be resolved without 
impacting his policy and without financial loss. This appeared to have been a mistake 
because Scottish Friendly did have an issue that affected some of its policyholders, however 
I felt that this caused a delay in Mr L getting the right information about his policy and a loss 
of expectation that these deductions to his policy would be returned or put right.
Scottish Friendly offered to pay Mr L a total of £175 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience this mistake with the information caused, and I thought that was fair in all
the circumstances.The responses
Scottish Friendly responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision and had no 
further comments to add.
Mr L said he didnt accept my provisional decision and said that the sum involved was £75. 
He said hed received the cheque but didnt intend to cash it. In summary, Mr L said that a 
sum of £150 is being deducted on a regular basis from his capital to pay an additional 
premium, and no-one had responded to his request as to whether this has also impacted on 
the level of his death benefit. He said that it hadnt been explained why the investment is 
insufficient to meet the premiums. He said that no explanation had been given about why he 
was told the wrong explanation and that the sum of £75 for this was absurd. Mr L said he 
doesnt accept the mortality charge explanation. 
Mr L said he hadnt received the previous reviews of his policy from 2012, 2016 or 2017, and 
feels he should have received an explicit covering letter explaining what was taking place 
with his policy. Mr L said he was certain that the paragraph I referred to wasnt emphasised 
to him at the time he took the policy out. So Mr L said that he feels his policy was mis-sold.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling about this matter, and I can understand how 
frustrating it will have been to see the deductions being made on his policy, and then to 
receive an incorrect explanation about why this was. 
My decision here relates to Mr Ls concerns about the deductions from his policy. Should he 
now wish to make a complaint about the sale of the policy to him in 1988 and how it was 
explained to him, that would need to be the subject of a separate consideration. 
I appreciate that Mr L may not have received the review letters he was sent in 2012, 2016 
and 2017. However, each of these includes the same paragraph as in the 2018 letter to 
explain the result of the plan review: The review has shown that your monthly premium of 
£100.00 is enough to support your life cover of £96,805 until the next review.
Each of the review letters also say that The premium you are currently paying will not 
support your current life cover for the rest of your life, assuming a future growth rate for the 
funds of 7.50% per year. This means it is almost certain that you will need to increase your 
premiums or reduce your life cover at a future review. As Ive said previously, I understand 
from Scottish Friendlys submissions that it has not yet carried out a review since taking over 
the administration of Mr Ls policy. 
Overall, and although I fully appreciate Mr Ls reasons why he doesnt agree, my findings 
remain that I dont think the deductions from Mr Ls policy have been applied incorrectly. 
However, Mr L was given the wrong explanation that this was caused by a technical issue 
which would be resolved, and this caused him a loss of expectation that these deductions to 
his policy would be returned or put right. But I think that Scottish Friendlys total offer of £175 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience this caused is fair in the particular 
circumstances. I have referred to a total payment of £175 being offered by Scottish Friendly, 
as it initially said it would pay £100, and then increased this by an additional £75 in 
recognition of providing him with the wrong information that the deductions were the result of 
a technical issue.   
My final decision
My decision is that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited should pay Mr L the total of 
£175, as it has offered to do, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman