DRN-3854454
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim
against her by a third partys insurance company, who Ill refer to as D.
Ive changed the business this complaint is about to Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. 
This is because Miss Ss policy is underwritten by a consortium of insurers and Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited are the lead insurer.
What happened
Miss S was involved in an accident in the car park at a retail outlet. She made a claim under
her policy for the repairs to her car. Admiral arranged and paid for her car to be repaired and
then let D know they held their insured driver (the third party) at fault and wanted to reclaim
their outlay on Miss Ss claim in full. Admiral obtained CCTV footage of the accident, with
help from Miss S. And, in their communications with her, they indicated they thought the third
party was to blame for the accident. D disputed liability and when Miss S found this out she
said Admiral should send the CCTV footage to them. Admiral did this, but D came back to
say it wasnt in a format that enabled them to view it. Admiral didnt respond to D about this.
In October 2020 Admiral received an offer from D to settle on a 50/50 basis. They agreed to
this and informed Miss S theyd done so on a without prejudice basis. Miss S was very
unhappy about this and complained about the following things:
It took too long for Admiral to apply for the CCTV footage of her accident and she
had to contact the retail outlet herself to make sure it was saved.
Admiral shouldnt have accepted Ds offer to settle the claim 50/50, especially as
theyd given her the impression they thought the third party was at fault and had
asked her whether shed attend court if necessary.
Admiral failed to send the CCTV footage to D in a format that enabled them to view it.
She felt she had no option but to renew her policy with an open claim and this had cost
her more in premium.
Admiral didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. They said:
The delay in getting the CCTV was due to the retailer.
They were satisfied the decision to settle the claim 50/50 was correct.
There would be no benefit in D viewing the CCTV footage, as theyd now agreed to
settle 50/50.
They couldnt do anything about the fact Miss S felt she had no option but to renew
with them.
Miss S wasnt happy with Admirals final response and asked us to consider her complaint.
One of our investigators did this and explained why she thought it should be upheld. She
thought it was likely that if Admiral had sent the CCTV footage to D in a format in which they
could view it, they would have accepted liability in full. She didnt think Admiral had handled
Miss Ss claim well enough. She said they should pay her £100 in compensation for distress
and inconvenience. She also said Admiral should re-open the claim and send the CCTV
footage to D in a viewable format and ask them to reconsider their position having done so.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 November 2022 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained in her view on the complaint, Miss Ss policy does give Admiral
the right to handle third party claims against her as they feel is appropriate. But the rules
Admiral are subject to state they have to handle claims fairly. I think this means they should
defend third party claims against their policyholder where it is appropriate for them to do so.
And they should make reasonable efforts to recover any outlay they make from a third party
or their insurer if the evidence suggests it is appropriate to do so.
I agree with our investigator that Admiral handled the claim against Miss S badly  both in
terms of the way they dealt with D and the way they dealt with Miss S.
It is hard to tell whether the retailer did make it difficult for Admiral to obtain the CCTV
footage from the evidence Ive been provided with. But, once Admiral had it, I think they
should have sent it to D in a viewable format and made sure theyd viewed this before
agreeing settlement. I think the footage shows the third party was at fault. Obviously, I
cannot be sure what D would have decided if they had viewed the footage and it is not my
role to actually decide who was responsible for the accident. But, in a case like this, I do
have to give an opinion on whether Admirals approach was reasonable. To do this, I need to
give a view on whether the evidence they failed to provide to D would have made a
difference. I think the footage is strong evidence in favour of Miss S, as it shows the third
party was likely to be found to be at fault if the case went to court. And I think its most likely
D would have realised this and decided to settle in full. I also think Admiral would also most
likely have recovered Miss Ss excess for her in full. I understand she has only had half of
this back.
I dont think theres any point in Admiral re-opening the claim and sending the CCTV footage
to D in a viewable format now, as D are highly unlikely to agree to alter their position having
agreed settlement with Admiral.
This means that I think Admirals failure to make sure D had viewed the footage and their
decision to settle without this happening has prejudiced Miss Ds position. This is because
she now has a fault claim against her record that shouldnt be there and she will always have
a payment against this claim that shouldnt be there. She has most likely also paid more in
premiums because the claim was recorded as fault, as opposed to non-fault. And this and
the mixed messages Miss D received during the course of the claim on liability has caused
her distress and inconvenience. And I think the level of distress and inconvenience she
experienced was fairly significant in the circumstances and warrants an appropriate
compensation payment.
In view of this, to put things right and to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to Miss Ss
complaint I think Admiral should do the following:
Mark Miss Ss claim as non-fault (bonus allowed) on their records and on any
external databases they have added it to.
Pay Miss S £250 for the distress and inconvenience their poor claim handling caused
her.
Pay her the remaining half of her excess back.Recalculate the premiums under Miss Ss policy with the claim as non-fault back to
renewal in 2019 and refund the extra amount she paid each year because of this,
plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date she paid the premium to the
date they make the refund.
Miss S has told us she changed insurers in October 2021. So, once the claim has been
marked as non-fault, she can ask them to amend her premiums retrospectively to reflect this.
I gave the parties until 7 December 2022 to provide further comments and evidence.
Miss S has said she doesnt have anything new to add, but she would like Admiral to have to 
prove her claim has been marked as non-fault on all systems and databases. She has also 
queried whether weve had recordings of the calls between Admiral and D, as she wonders if 
they simply settled the claim to get it off their books. 
Admiral have responded to confirm the following:
They will mark Miss Ss claim as non-fault (bonus allowed) on their records and any 
external databases. 
Miss Ss no claims bonus was allowed on 8 August 2019. This means the premium Miss 
S paid at renewal in 2019 reflected the fact her claim was non-fault. 
They will pay Miss S the £250 in compensation Ive suggested once she accepts my final 
decision. 
They will pay the remaining half of Miss Ss excess to her once she accepts my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to what Ive provisionally decided, I see no reason to deviate 
from what I provisionally decided.
Ive noted Miss Ss request for Admiral to have to prove theyve marked her claim as non-
fault (bonus allowed) on any systems and databases. However, Im satisfied Admiral will do 
this and I am not going to require them to prove it to Miss S. This is because I dont think it is 
necessary as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. The key thing is that 
Admiral must do it and that Im satisfied they will do so, if they havent done so already. 
I have not had recordings of the calls between Admiral and D. I think Admirals decision to 
settle on a 50/50 basis was simply a bad decision and I dont think it was part of any special 
agreement to settle a number of claims to get them off their books.
Im pleased Admiral have said they will do everything I provisionally decided they should do 
to put things right. And Ive noted what theyve said about the 2019 renewal. And this is fine 
provided the base premium without the no claims discount was calculated on the basis Miss 
Ss claim was a non-fault claim. The fact her no claim bonus was reinstated prior to renewal 
does not necessarily mean this is what happened. So, Admiral should check this and  if the 
base premium for the renewal of Miss Ss policy was calculated on the basis Miss Ss claim 
was a fault claim, they should recalculate it on the basis it was a non-fault claim and refund 
any difference to Miss S, plus interest at 8% per annum simple. Putting things right
I consider Admiral need to do the following to put things right:
Mark Miss Ss claim as non-fault (bonus allowed) on their records and on any
external databases they have added it to.
Pay Miss S £250 for the distress and inconvenience their poor claim handling caused
her.
Pay her the remaining half of her excess back.
Admiral must check whether the base premium at the renewal of Miss Ss policy in 2019 
was calculated on the basis her claim was a fault claim. And  if it was - they should 
recalculate it on the basis it was a non-fault claim and refund any difference to Miss S, 
plus interest at 8% per annum simple1 from the date she paid the extra to the date they 
refund it to her.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ss complaint 
about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited and order them to do what Ive set out above in 
the putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Admiral must tell Miss S if they have made a deduction for income tax. And, if they have, 
how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax deduction certificate for Miss S if 
asked to do so. This will allow Miss S to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.