DRN-3082041
The complaint
Mr R complains The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (trading as Scottish 
Provident) unfairly declined his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr R is the sole director of his own business. He held an income protection policy with 
Scottish Provident, designed to pay a monthly benefit in the event of him being unable to 
work due to illness or injury, following a 13 week deferral period. 
In late April 2020, Mr R suffered a suspected seizure, which in turn caused a fracture to his 
spine and one shoulder, as well as dislocation of the same shoulder. And he was signed off 
work by his GP. 
Mr R returned to work around four weeks before the 13 week policy deferral period ended. 
He said he had to do this to keep his business going, and to meet his legal obligations. He 
described being limited in the work he could do, and said he was able to read emails and 
make short business calls. And he utilised courier services to deliver items he would 
previously has delivered himself, as he was unable to drive. 
Mr R made a claim against his policy, and this was turned down by Scottish Provident, as it 
said Mr R hadnt met the policy terms of incapacity. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows. 
Own occupation 
Becoming 
disabled:
before age 65;
while having a full time (16 hours or more a week) remunerative occupation 
immediately before the start of the disability;
through illness or injury; and
to the extent of being medically or physically unfit to perform the material 
and substantial duties of that occupation
Mr R complained to Scottish Provident about the declinature of his claim. Scottish 
Provident said it had reconsidered the claim, and didnt dispute that Mr R had suffered a 
serious injury. However it didnt think the injury prevented him from being able to carry out 
the material and substantial duties of his role. It said it thought Mr R could carry out much 
of his work with clients via virtual means, and could use couriers to deliver products when 
he was unable to drive. 
Unhappy with Scottish Providents response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened. They noted that Mr R had returned to 
work before the 13 week deferred period had ended. And said they didnt think Scottish 
Provident had acted unfairly. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view. He said he had returned to work in early July 
2020, only to do the minimum of work which was necessary to keep his business going. 
And he said he was still deemed unfit to work by his GP during that time. 
Scottish Provident made no comments on the investigators view. But as Mr R disagreed, the 
case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Scottish Provident 
has a responsibility to handle claims fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Firstly, I would like to clarify its not in doubt that Mr R suffered serious and painful injuries 
leading to his claim. And I wish him the best for his continued recovery. 
In deciding whether or not Scottish Provident has acted fairly, I need to decide if Mr R met 
his policys definition of incapacity. As set out above, for a successful claim, Mr R would 
need to show that he was medically or physically unfit to perform the material and 
substantial duties of his occupation, for the duration of the 13 week deferred period. And 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mr R has sufficiently evidenced that he met 
that definition. So it follows, that I dont think Scottish Provident declined the claim unfairly. 
And Ill explain why.
Mr R was signed off work by his GP, and has described the pain he was in and the 
difficulties he had using one of his arms, as well as being unable to drive.  Scottish Provident 
said it thought Mr R could continue to work in some capacity by communicating with clients 
virtually, and using courier services to deliver products. Mr R has said this assessment is 
unfair, as meeting with clients face to face is an important factor. And although there had 
been lockdown restrictions causing most businesses to operate virtually, at the time of his 
illness, these restrictions did not apply. 
Ive carefully considered what Mr R has said about Scottish Providents assessment of his 
ability to work. And Ive also considered that Mr R returned to work during the 13 week 
deferred period  around four weeks before this period ended. He told Scottish Provident he 
was open for business and although restricted in what he could do physically, he said he 
was able to read emails and make short business calls. And hed said he couldnt risk losing 
clients due to his illness. Mr R also confirmed to the investigator that during his return to 
work, some orders came in and were processed using alternative delivery options, and 
company legal requirements were dealt with, with help from his accountant. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Rs point of view, that he was doing the minimum needed to keep his 
business going while he was unwell, this leads me to think that he was completing at least 
some of the material and substantial duties of his role. Whilst I accept that he was not doing 
his full role as he has explained he would usually deliver items himself and meet clients in 
person, his testimony shows he was doing the tasks he deemed to be essential to run his 
business. And so I dont think it was unfair for Scottish Provident to conclude that Mr R was not unfit to perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation, in line with the 
policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (trading as 
Scottish Provident). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman