DRN-3376449
The complaint
The complaint is about advice given to Mr W in 2011 by Howard Taylor Associates (HTA) in 
connection with Mr Ws pension arrangements. 
What happened
Following advice in September 2011 from HTA, Mr W switched his personal pension plan to
a SIPP (self invested personal pension) with a new provider. By 8 November 2011, 
£38,303.52 had been transferred to the new SIPP. £30,000 was then invested in a
development site. Mr W purchased two plots. Confirmation that the purchases had been 
completed was issued on 6 December 2011.
There was correspondence about the investment in 2013. HTA says there were also
meetings about the investment, which had encountered difficulties in obtaining planning
permission. HTA says Mr W attended and participated in those meetings.
HTA referred to its letter of 15 August 2013. The letter was headed (in bold):
THIS LETTER IS IMPORTANT: IT CONCERNS YOUR SELF INVESTED PERSONAL 
PENSION (SIPP) INVESTMENT . LAND INVESTMENT SCHEME
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has concerns about the SIPP 
sales process that has been used at Howard Taylor Associates (HTA).
We are offering a review of whether your SIPP is suitable for your needs.
Please read this letter carefully and take the suggested action.
The letter went on to explain that HTA had been asked to write to Mr W by the FCA. It had
reviewed a sample of cases where HTA had promoted the investment through a SIPP in the
land scheme, an unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). The review had
highlighted that HTA had, in certain circumstances, promoted UCIS to individuals who
werent eligible to receive such a financial promotion. The FCA had asked HTA to offer an
opportunity to have the recommendation reviewed. Mr W should complete and sign the
enclosed form to indicate if he wanted to the advice reviewed or if he was satisfied with the
advice hed received and didnt wish HTA to review it. Mr W was asked to return the form
within the next 28 days.
The letter added that the FCA required HTA to inform Mr W that if he wished to complain
about the advice hed been given he must do so within six years from when the advice was
given or, if longer, three years from the date he ought reasonably to have been aware that a
loss had been sustained.
HTA sent a reminder to Mr W on 27 November 2013. The letter referred to the previous
letter and invited Mr W to have his file reviewed. It was a final reminder and, if he didnt
respond within four weeks, HTA would take no further action. A final letter was sent on 3
January 2014 referring to the previous letters and saying that as Mr W hadnt responded his
file wouldnt be included in any review and no further action would be taken.
Mr Ws representative made a subject access request (SAR) to HTA on 27 July 2018. HTA
replied on 10 September 2018. Ive also seen an email from Mr Ws representative to Mr W
on 7 February 2019. A draft of the complaint was attached. Mr W replied the same day to
say hed read the draft complaint and was happy for his representative to proceed with the
claim.
Mr W, through his representative, complained on 11 February 2019 about HTA. In its reply
dated 8 March 2019 HTA said the complaint had been made too late. The advice had been
given in September 2011, more than six years earlier. And the complaint had been made
more than three years since Mr W knew or ought reasonably to have known he had
cause for complaint.
The complaint was referred to us on 5 September 2019 by Mr Ws estate. Tragically Mr W
had committed suicide soon after his complaint had been made to HTA. 
I issued a jurisdiction decision on 25 May 2021. I said the complaint had been made outside 
the six and three year periods in DISP (Dispute Resolution) 2.8.2R (2). But I agreed with the 
investigator that Mr Ws circumstances were exceptional and that his failure to comply with 
the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances. I said we could consider the 
complaint. 
HTA didnt accept that and made further representations. Because HTA was so unhappy
and as were required to keep jurisdiction under review throughout our consideration of a
complaint, I reviewed the question of whether the complaint had been made in time.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 October 2021. As I thought the complaint had been
made outside the time limits in DISP 2.8.2R, I focused on whether Mr Ws circumstances
were exceptional and such that meant he was unable to complain earlier and within the
applicable time limits. I maintained that, in my view, Mr Ws circumstances were exceptional. 
HTA still didnt accept that and wanted to see further evidence from the GP. We got further 
information which we shared with HTA. 
I issued a jurisdiction decision 25 February 2022. I said, in my view, for the reasons I set out, 
the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2R was a result of exceptional 
circumstances. I said we could consider the complaint. 
I also said that Id be moving on to consider the merits of the complaint. I asked HTA for any 
further comments about that. I said, and as HTA would be aware, the question of jurisdiction 
remains open throughout the course of the complaint, up to and until a final decision is 
issued. And that, if HTA had any new evidence about jurisdiction, then HTA should provide 
it, along with any comments about the merits of the complaint. But, in the absence of any 
fresh evidence, I had decided about jurisdiction and so, going forwards, Id only be dealing 
with the merits of the complaint. 
HTA didnt make any further comments (about jurisdiction or merits) by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already said, were required to keep jurisdiction under review throughout our 
consideration of a complaint, up to and until we issue a final decision. Ive done that. But I 
havent changed my mind. For the reasons Ive explained previously (in my provisional and jurisdiction decisions) in my view the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2R 
was as a result of exceptional circumstances and we can consider the complaint. 
Moving on to the merits of the complaint, I explained in my provisional decision dated 20 
October 2021 that I agreed with the investigator, and with the reasons he gave, that HTAs 
advice that Mr W switch to a SIPP so that he could invest the bulk of his pension fund in the 
land scheme, was unsuitable. That remains my view. Ive repeated here what I said. 
The investment was a UCIS and, as highlighted by the FCA, should only have been 
promoted to certain types of retail customers. UCIS are generally high risk. They may be 
suitable for some investors (but usually only then for a proportion of the investors overall 
assets). I cant see that a UCIS was suitable for Mr W. He wasnt a sophisticated investor or 
a high net worth client.
The investment was speculative. Its success relied on securing planning permission which
wasnt forthcoming. A very large proportion (almost 80%) of Mr Ws SIPP fund was invested
in a single high risk investment. The lack of diversification increased the overall risk.
Im not sure if the assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk as adventurous was credible. And,
even if hed said that he wanted to take a high degree of risk with his pension fund, I dont
think he had the capacity for loss to take that level of risk. He had some other investments
but these were relatively modest and included some higher risk shares. I dont think he
should have been advised to take a high degree of risk with his pension fund. I think he
shouldve been told to retain his existing personal pension plan.
Putting things right
In awarding redress my aim is to put Mr Ws estate (and/or Mrs W as the sole executrix and
residual beneficiary) in the position it wouldve been in if Mr W had retained his personal plan
with his previous provider. I set out in my provisional decision the redress I proposed (which 
was in line with what the investigator had suggested) and which Ive largely repeated below. 
Howard Taylor Associates should contact Mr Ws previous provider and ask it to ascertain 
what Mr Ws fund wouldve been worth had Mr W not switched to the SIPP. If Howard Taylor 
Associates has any difficulty in doing that we can assist. Or if Howard Taylor Associates 
needs an authority from the estate it should let us know.  Howard Taylor Associates should 
ask the previous provider if it can say what Mr Ws fund wouldve been worth when he died, 
what death benefits wouldve been payable and provide a copy of any nomination form. That 
notional value can then be compared with the actual value of the SIPP to ascertain if theres 
a loss.
In looking at what the SIPP is worth, if the land investments remain illiquid then, as their 
actual value will be difficult to ascertain, a nil value should be assumed for the purposes of
calculating redress. Howard Taylor Associates should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the SIPP provider. That amount 
should be deducted from the loss.
If Howard Taylor Associates is unable to purchase the investments their actual value should 
be assumed to be nil for the purposes of the calculation. Howard Taylor Associates may 
wish to require an undertaking from Mr Ws estate to pay Howard Taylor Associates any 
amount that may be received from the investments in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Howard Taylor Associates will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
If the illiquid investments are removed from the SIPP that should allow the SIPP to beclosed. And no award for future SIPP fees will need to be made. But, if Howard Taylor 
Associates isnt able to purchase the investments and the SIPP cant be closed, then 
Howard Taylor Associates must pay an amount equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees 
(calculated using the previous years charges). That gives a reasonable period for the SIPP 
to be closed. Mrs Ws representative should confirm to Howard Taylor Associates the current 
position in relation to the SIPP and if it remains open and whether the SIPP provider has 
been asked if the SIPP can be closed  Im aware that in some circumstances some SIPP 
operators will permit that where it appears that an investment is illiquid and any return is 
unlikely. The SIPP operator should also be able to say what value is currently attributed to 
the investment (or what value, if any, was attributed if the SIPP has been closed). 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Howard Taylor Associates must pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman