DRN-1563260
Complaint
Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
when he took out a new credit card in 1998. 
Background
I can see that Mr J has already been offered some money for the commission BoS received 
from selling him the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail and didnt 
think Mr J had actually been mis-sold the PPI policy.
Mr J disagreed and still thought he had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place, so he asked 
that an ombudsman make a final decision about his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
BoS sent us a copy of the postal application form Mr J used during his card application. I see 
he was presented with a yes / no choice about having PPI with his new card and he chose 
the yes option for PPI to be added. I also think his credit card statements would have 
subsequently showed he was paying for PPI over the following years. So I think these things 
show he both asked for PPI and would have been aware it was activated on his account. 
As a postal sale, Mr J would have probably filled out the application in his own time and 
without any intervention from BoS. BoS therefore didnt provide an advised sale so it 
needed only to provide him with enough information so he could decide for himself whether 
or not he wanted PPI and whether it was right for him.
Im aware these forms were usually attached to a wider leaflet which explained some of the 
costs and benefits. Nevertheless, I can accept BoS might have done more to explain the PPI 
policy. But overall I think Mr J still probably had enough information on which to make an 
informed decision. 
I also dont think Mr J was caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies. And because it cost £0.79 for every £100 outstanding on his monthly credit card 
balance, I think it would have been affordable for Mr J. In the event of a successful claim on 
the PPI policy, Mr J would have also been able to have his outstanding balance reduced by 
10% each month for up to 12 months. 
So looking at his overall situation, I think this is probably why he chose the PPI on his 
application  I think he wanted the cover.All this means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J. But it has 
agreed to pay back to Mr J the commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium. BoS should also pay back to Mr J any extra interest Mr J paid because of 
that. BoS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr J the difference 
between what Mr J owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Mr J 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr J can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr J. 
But it does have to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman