DRN-2675585
The complaint
Mr C complains, on behalf of W, that Metro Bank PLC wont refund a disputed transaction 
made from their business account. 
What happened
Mr C is the sole director of W.
Mr C explains that a transaction for the amount of £6,641.76 was made from Ws account on 
the 24 July 2019 which wasnt authorised. This transaction was a faster payment made via 
the Metro mobile app. 
Mr C explains that in July 2019 he gave an investor, Ill call A, access to Ws online banking 
via the mobile app. But due to a disintegration in Mr Cs relationship with A he became 
concerned about A having access to Ws internet banking. For this reason Mr C explains that 
on the 19 July 2019 he visited his local Metro branch and asked for his online banking to be 
reset. Metro asked Mr C the reason for this reset but instead of advising hed shared his 
online banking details with A, and assisted him to download the mobile app, he advised 
Metro that he was aware its important to regularly update your security. On the 19 July 2019 
Metro reset Ws password and security number. However Mr C says that on the 
24 July 2019 A accessed Ws online banking and carried out an unauthorised transfer of 
£6,641.76.  
 
Mr C complained on behalf of W to Metro.  Metro investigated and decided not to refund the 
disputed transaction. They thought that Mr C had authorised the disputed transaction and 
hed failed to comply with the terms and conditions of his business account by sharing his 
online banking details with A. Metro explained that although theyd reset Ws password and 
security details on the 19 July 2019 this wouldnt reset access to the mobile app. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Metros response so complained to our service. 
One of investigators looked into Ws complaint and thought that although Mr C had 
authorised the transaction  through sharing his details with A  Metro should have asked 
Mr C more questions when he attended the branch on the 19 July 2019 and concluded that 
they also needed to reset Ws mobile app. He said Metro should refund W the disputed 
transaction plus 8% interest.
 
Metro didnt accept our investigators opinion, in summary they said:
Mr C shared the online banking details for W with A and therefore he authorised the 
transaction. 
Mr Cs failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the account specifically It is 
your sole responsibility to monitor and control access to and use of your account. 
As Metro didnt agree the case was passed to me for a decision. I reviewed Ws complaint 
and came to a different conclusion to our investigator. I issued my Provisional Decision on 
the 23 February 2021 giving both parties until the 10 March 2021 to respond with any further 
comments. 
Metro didnt respond to my Provisional Decision.
Mr C responded and in summary said:
When he visited the branch there was a good relationship between him and A 
therefore he had no need to need to mention any security issues to Metro.
Just because he didnt mention it doesnt mean Metro shouldnt have taken their 
responsibilities seriously.
He acted responsibly in attempting to protect the security of Ws account.
The two branches he visited werent aware that resetting online banking didnt also 
reset the mobile banking app. If the branch staff didnt know, how could he be 
expected to know? 
Even if hed explained the full reasons for his actions, Metro still wouldnt have known 
that online and mobile banking security are two separate processes and been able to 
successfully secure Ws account.
As Mr C didnt accept my Provisional Decision Ive reconsidered all the evidence and Mr Cs 
response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not changed the outcome I reached in my Provisional Decision. And Ill 
explain why below. 
In my Provisional Decision I said:
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Ws correct online banking details were 
used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Metro to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr C consented to the 
transaction being made.
Ill realise this will be very disappointing to Mr C, but Im satisfied on balance he did authorise 
the transaction, I say this because:
Ive seen evidence from Metro that the transaction on the 24 July 2019 was a faster payment 
processed via the mobile app using a payee set up in February 2019. Mr Cs explained that 
he assisted A to download the mobile app and gain access to Ws account. Although A 
wasnt listed on the business account, Im satisfied giving him access to mobile banking is 
effectively clothing him with apparent authority. When looking at the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 this means that any transaction carried out by A after this point would be 
seen by the bank as being carried out by the authorised account holder, namely Mr C. 
But its important for me to consider Mr Cs main argument here  namely that on the 
19 July 2019 he visited a Metro branch and whilst carrying out another banking transaction 
asked for Ws password and security code to be reset. Ive considered what happened here 
in detail and it appears that both Metro and Mr C agree on the main events  unfortunately 
Metro havent been able to provide notes for the branch visit. Essentially Mr C says that he informed the member of staff hed like to reset Ws security details. The member of staff 
asked Mr C was there a particular reason for resetting his password and security code. And 
Mr C explained that he was aware its important to regularly update your passwords. 
Crucially, although he was asked why he wanted to reset his details Mr C didnt mention his 
concern about A. Im satisfied if he had done so at that point its highly unlikely A would have 
been able to carry out the transaction  and I need to take this into consideration. Mr C 
thought from this point onwards hed protected access to his account, and internet banking, 
from A  but unfortunately A still had access via the mobile app. Our investigator explored 
this further with Metro  who provided evidence of their security reset if a customer asks for 
their online banking to be reset.  Theres no mention here of resetting the mobile app. Ive 
seen the registration process for the mobile app  and its clear here that the password and 
security code is needed  but once this has been set up Metro have explained this is no 
longer required. And all A needed to access the app was a four digit PIN code hed 
previously set up or his fingerprint. 
What I need to consider here is whether Mr C did enough to end the apparent authority he 
clothed A with. And I realise that Mr C will find this disappointing, but I dont think he did. I 
agree with his argument that Metro are the experts, and they should be aware that you 
wouldnt require the password and security code to access a registered mobile app. But, 
both parties now agree that Mr C was specifically asked why he wanted to reset his security 
credentials and instead of advising he was concerned about A he explained that he thought 
this would be best practice. Ive thought about Metros response here and their usual 
practice, and I dont think its reasonable to expect them to consider resetting or blocking 
access to any previously downloaded apps. I say this because I wouldnt expect Metro to 
see a possible risk here. Mr C didnt tell the bank that he had concerns about A accessing 
his online banking or more importantly that hed assisted A in downloading the mobile app. If 
he had done so then Id have expected Metro to act on this. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied that by giving A access to Ws mobile app 
Mr C effectively gave A authority to make authorised transactions. And although Mr C 
attempted to end this authority on the 19 July 2019 his actions were not sufficient to 
terminate this.
Mr C responded with a number of additional points to my Provisional Decision, which Ive 
considered below. Ive not considered these individually, as Im satisfied that Mr Cs main 
points are he wasnt aware A was a risk to W when he visited the branch and how can he be 
expected to know that resetting his online banking wouldnt also reset the online banking app 
if the Metro staff werent aware. 
I understand what Mr Cs trying to say here  but unfortunately once he gave A access to his 
online banking, and assisted him in downloading the mobile app, he was giving A the 
authority to transact on behalf of W. Whether he knew about a potential risk from A when he 
visited the Metro branch and reset his security doesnt impact on this. The key question  
which I addressed in my Provisional Decision  is whether Mr C did enough to terminate this 
authority. Mr C argues that by visiting his local Metro branch and asking the staff member to 
reset his security details this was enough  and how could he possibly know that the mobile 
banking app wouldnt also be reset, and A would still have access. I realise this will 
disappoint Mr C but whether he knew the mobile app wouldnt be reset doesnt impact on my 
conclusions. Mr C gave A access to Ws online banking and from that point on, until he 
informed Metro that hed allowed A to download a mobile app or carried out sufficient actions 
which prevented A gaining access, A acted with his authority. Im not satisfied its Metros 
responsibility to guess what Mr C was trying to achieve when he visited the branch that day. 
Or to take all reasonable steps, including resetting access to any mobile banking apps, to prevent A gaining access when they werent aware Mr C had shared his online banking 
details with him and allowed A to download the mobile banking app. 
I realise this will disappoint Mr C but Im satisfied that the disputed transaction was 
authorised by W. And it follows Metro are entitled to hold W liable.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman