DRN-2743134
The complaint
Mrs H says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading at the time as Egg) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs H bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card online. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the online sales process Mrs H wouldve used at the time. From what Ive 
seen, there wouldve been a section for optional extras, one of which was PPI. There were 
two options to choose from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. According to the 
electronic record of Mrs Hs application, she chose the option to take PPI. And she did this 
online, in her own time and without any potential pressure from a salesperson. Further, Ive 
not seen any wider problems with Canada Squares sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence which shows that Mrs H was misled here. So I think that Canada Square made 
Mrs H aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the 
time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
This was a non-advised sale, which means Canada Square did not give Mrs H tailored 
advice about whether to buy PPI  they just gave her information about the policy and then it 
was up to Mrs H to decide whether she wanted it or not. That means Canada Square did not 
have to ask about Mrs Hs alternative methods of making repayments and did not have to 
check whether the policy was suitable for her. They did have to give Mrs H clear enough 
information about the PPI.
It is possible that the information Canada Square gave Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been, and that the sale was flawed in that sense. But that, on its own, does not 
necessarily mean that the policy was mis-sold. Instead, the question is whether I think better 
information was likely to have changed her mind.
Here, it looks like Mrs H chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she was 
eligible for the cover and was not affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The 
PPI would have paid out on top of her sick pay and would most likely have offered her useful 
additional cover. I understand Mrs Hs family wouldve been happy to help, but there was 
always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this policy meant that Mrs H 
wouldnt have to ask her family to cover her credit card if she fell on difficult times. So the 
policy could have been useful for Mrs H in case something went wrong. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so she could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
Lastly, Mrs H mentioned that she had another PPI policy that got refunded, and I understand 
why she raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different 
circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So even 
when one given policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different one was, 
too. We look at each case on its own merits, and Ive explained above why I have not found 
this particular policy to have been mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman