DRN-3697235
The complaint
Mrs L complains about her home emergency policy with British Gas Services Limited (British 
Gas). The complaint is about how British Gas responded to a problem with her boiler. 
References to British Gas in this decision include their agents who provide services under 
the policy.
This decision only covers the breakdown of Mrs Ls boiler in October 2021 and the issues 
about the breakdown raised in Mrs Ls complaint to British Gas, their final response in 
November 2021 and her complaint to this service this service in December 2021.
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs L returned home in the evening to find her central heating boiler 
wouldnt work. She contacted British Gas, who arranged for an engineer to come out two 
days later, in the morning. However, the appointment was cancelled early on the morning of 
the day of the appointment, but Mrs L was told an engineer would call the following morning. 
However, Mrs L received a call from British Gas the following morning, again cancelling the 
appointment. She challenged this, saying shed been without heating (or hot water) for three 
days. British Gas then said theyd send an engineer the same afternoon.
However, when the engineer inspected the boiler, he said the parts needed to fix the boiler 
were obsolete (and had been for two years) so Mrs L would need to replace her boiler. Mrs L 
was unhappy at what shed been told, as shed had the boiler serviced in November 2020 
and this wasnt mentioned. Had it been, she would have replaced the boiler. Mrs L then had 
the boiler replaced, but because of the time needed to do this, she was without heating or 
hot water for three weeks.
Unhappy at what had happened, Mrs L complained to British Gas. In their final response 
British Gas said theyd reviewed the case and concluded a slow leak on the boiler had 
caused it to stop working. They also said the leak wasnt  as Mrs L had suggested - the 
result of previous work on a valve and expansion vessel. Visits since the annual service in 
November 2020 had been for external faults (so the engineers hadnt checked inside the 
boiler). However, they acknowledged the time Mrs L waited for an engineer to visit (after the 
boiler stopped working) and in recognition, offered £150 as a goodwill gesture (which they 
subsequently increased to £200). They also said they didnt receive advance notification of 
when a particular part became obsolete (as this was decided by the manufacturer). 
However, they said concerns about the condition of the boiler had been raised with Mrs L by 
engineers as far back as 2018. 
Mrs L then complained to this service. She was unhappy at not being told that parts 
for her boiler were obsolete (and had been for two years) so she felt shed been 
paying for a service British Gas couldnt have fulfilled for that period. She wanted 
British Gas to refund the monthly premiums shed paid during that time.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ls complaint, concluding British gas hadnt acted fairly. 
She noted British Gas said, in the most recent renewal of the policy before the boiler 
breakdown, that as the model of boiler was no longer made, parts were becoming 
difficult to source. However, looking at the policy terms and conditions, the 
investigator thought Mrs L should be entitled to a refund of the premiums paid in 
respect of the boiler or central heating cover paid since the last renewal. On the 
question of compensation for the inconvenience for her boiler breaking down and the 
cancelled visits, the investigator thought British Gass offer of £200 was fair and 
reasonable.
British Gas disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They didnt think Mrs L should receive a refund of premiums, for the 
reasons set out in their final response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mrs L.
The key issue in Mrs Ls complaint is she feels she should have been told about the obsolete 
parts for her boiler before it broke down. She says she wasnt told about this at the annual 
service before the breakdown. If she had, she would have replaced it. Shes also unhappy at 
being left without heating and hot water for three days until the engineer visited. 
Taking the second issue first, looking at what happened, Mrs L had two appointments 
cancelled before she challenged British Gas and they arranged for a third appointment, three 
days after the breakdown. British Gas awarded £200 as a goodwill gesture for what had 
happened. Thinking about the inconvenience Mrs L suffered, I think the figure is fair and 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience she suffered. So, I wont be asking British 
Gas to increase the amount.
Coming back to the main issue in the complaint, about the parts for her boiler being obsolete 
(and had been for two years) and whether Mrs L should have been told about this, Ive 
considered carefully what Mrs L and British Gas have said. She says she wasnt told about 
this at the annual service before the breakdown. If she had, she would have replaced it. 
British Gas say they had been advising Mrs L about the potential reduction in parts 
availability. In the renewal letter for her policy in December 2020 (the last renewal before the 
breakdown) theres a section headed Important Information  parts availability which 
states:
Our records show that your boiler is (model name)
Your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular model of boiler a while 
ago. Theyre still making the most important parts for your boiler, some others are 
becoming difficult to source.
This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but well do our 
best to keep it running for as long as possible.
In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund back 
dated to when you last had work done, or to when you renewed your agreement  
whichevers the most recent.
Theres also an indication of limited parts availability on the job record from the November 
2020 annual service. Taking these together with the other points British Gas have made, Ive 
concluded Mrs L should reasonably have been aware of the issue of parts availability for her 
boiler and that should it break down, parts may not be available to fix it. In the event, this is 
what happened when the boiler broke down in October 2021. Based on this, I dont think its reasonable (as Mrs L has asked) for British Gas to refund her 
policy premiums for the previous two years. Ive also considered that her policy premium 
also covered different aspects of home emergency (not just her boiler and central heating) 
such as plumbing and drains cover, home electrical cover and kitchen appliance cover.
While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive considered the point in the above renewal letter that 
a refund may be possible if the boiler cant be fixed  which is what happened in this case. 
The policy terms and conditions contain the following statement in the When we can cancel 
section of the policy:
Where you have Boiler and Controls Breakdown Cover or Central Heating 
Breakdown Cover and:
We cant get hold of the parts we need to fix your boiler and controls or 
central heating, and
You decide to cancel and contact us accordingly, well refund any money you 
have paid for these products since your last successful claim or your last 
renewal date 9if this informed you that we not be able to source the part(s), 
whichever was the more recent, up to a maximum of three years.
Looking at the above wording, it suggests Mrs L would have been entitled to a refund of the 
premium shed paid for central heating cover at renewal of the policy in December 2020 
(£241.38). She paid her total premium (£581.77) through monthly direct debit, beginning in 
January 2021 (£48.71) and then eleven payments of £48.46. As part of her complaint to this 
service, Mrs L said she stopped the direct debit in November 2021, at which point she would 
have made either eleven or twelve monthly payments. 
In their initial response to our investigators view, British Gas said theyd removed central 
heating cover from the policy in October 2021, shortly after the breakdown, and refunded the 
applicable premiums to Mrs L. They provided a screenshot confirming the removal of the 
central heating cover from that date. However, Mrs L has told us she hasnt received a 
refund of premiums (though shes [now] paying a smaller monthly premium for cover of 
electrical appliances and plumbing and drains cover.
Given the points above, Ive concluded British, in the circumstances of the case and in 
accordance with the above policy terms and conditions, should refund the premiums for 
central heating cover from the date of the policy renewal in December 2020 (if they havent 
already refunded them, as they say they have).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint in part. I 
require British Gas Services Limited to:
Refund the premiums for central heating cover from the date of the policy renewal in 
December 2020 (if they havent already refunded them, as they say they have).
Pay Mrs L £200 for distress and inconvenience (if they havent already pay the 
compensation).
If they havent already paid Mrs L the compensation, British Gas Services Limited must pay 
the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mrs L accepts my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman