DRN-1687232
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Marsh Finance Limited (Marsh) was unable to give him sufficient 
details of its guaranteed asset protection (GAP) insurance policy for him to make a claim. 
Mr Cs had the help of his partner to bring this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
her comments as being Mr Cs.
Background
In 2015 Mr C bought a car on finance provided by Marsh. At the same time Marsh provided 
him with a GAP policy, which Mr C paid for in monthly instalments alongside his finance 
repayments. In 2019 the car caught fire and was destroyed. Mr Cs comprehensive motor 
insurer settled the claim for the total loss of his car. It said that the car was valued at £3,700 
and that he had a £700 excess to pay, leaving a balance of £3,000. But there was still an 
outstanding balance owing to Marsh for the finance for the car of around £3,694. So the 
comprehensive insurer paid the £3,000 settlement for the total loss of the car to Marsh. That 
means Mr C still owed Marsh about £694.
Mr C contacted Marsh for details of the insurer of his GAP policy. But Marsh couldn't identify 
who the insurer was. So to resolve the issue it said it would clear the outstanding balance of 
£694 from the finance, which meant Mr C no longer owed any finance on the car.
Mr C didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He thought Marshs decision to clear the outstanding balance for 
the finance was reasonable. But he thought Marsh should pay Mr C £50 compensation for 
the impact of the failures in its service. Mr C didn't agree so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it. My award to put things right will be the same as 
our investigator recommended.
I'm aware that Mr C raised other complaints about Marsh which we dealt with under a 
separate reference number. So, I don't intend to comment on those matters. And in this 
decision Im only looking at Mr Cs complaint about the GAP policy.
When Mr C bought his car with finance provided by Marsh he also bought a GAP policy 
described on the papers as Marshs own GAP. But when he asked Marsh for further details 
so he could make a claim on the policy, Marsh couldn't give him any information about who 
to make a claim to. Clearly, as Mr C was paying Marsh for the policy, then Marsh should 
have had details of which insurers policy it was collecting the premium for. But it no longer 
has those details and hasn't provided any explanation for why that is. But while I can 
understand that Mr C would find that frustrating, I don't think he's lost out as a result.
Mr C said that when he spoke to his motor insurer it told him that if he could provide details 
of his GAP policy, then the GAP would pay off the remaining balance of the finance and that 
the motor insurer would then pay him its settlement for the value of the car of £3,700. But 
while I haven't heard that conversation, I think thats unlikely that is what was said. And to 
explain why it might help if I set out how GAP policies usually operate.
There are a number of different GAP policies on the market. Mr C bought his policy from the 
car dealers who sold him his car. And I can see from the demands and needs document the 
car dealers completed when they sold the policy, that they offered three different types of 
GAP policy. The policies they offered to Mr C where from a choice of:
 Finance shortfall protection policy; this would cover the difference between 
the motor insurers settlement for the car and any finance outstanding at the 
time the car was deemed a total loss. That would also include any negative 
equity, which is any amount owing from a previous finance agreement for 
another car that was added to the finance for the new car.
 Retail price protection policy; which would cover the difference between the 
comprehensive insurance settlement and the purchase price of the car.
 Finance company GAP; these are similar to the finance shortfall protection 
policies in that they generally cover the difference between the 
comprehensive insurers settlement and the amount outstanding on the 
finance for the car. But they won't usually cover any negative equity.
So none of the policies that the car dealer could have offered Mr C would have settled a 
GAP claim in the manner the motor insurer explained, that is by paying off the outstanding 
finance and allowing Mr C to collect the full motor insurance settlement. So I think it's 
possible that either Mr Cs motor insurer gave Mr C incorrect advice, or that Mr C 
misunderstood what it was trying to tell him.
Mr Cs pointed out that as Marsh no longer knows who provided his policy it can't say what 
level of cover he had. And he believes he had a retail price protection policy. And if that was 
the case then Mr Cs GAP policy would have paid the difference between what he paid for 
his car, which was around £9,900 and the motor insurers settlement. But I don't think Mr C 
did buy a retail price protection policy. Thats because the demands and needs document 
Mr C signed when he bought the GAP policy says:
I am entering into a transaction and wish to protect myself against the financial 
consequences of my vehicle being stolen or written off, and wish to take advantage of the following cover:
The document then has three options with tick boxes net to those. They are: 
 Finance Shortfall Protection 
 Retail Price Protection
 Finance Company Gap 
And there is a tick next to Finance Company Gap indicating that was the cover Mr C bought. 
It follows that Im satisfied the policy Mr C paid for was the Finance Company GAP policy 
and not a retail price protection policy. And as I've described above such a policy would 
generally cover the difference between the comprehensive insurers settlement and the 
amount outstanding for the finance for the car when it was deemed a total loss. In Mr Cs 
case that was around £694. And when Marsh realised it couldn't identify who the insurer of 
the GAP policy was  to put things right - it cleared the outstanding balance of £694 from 
Mr Cs account. And thats what would have happened if Mr C had been able to claim on his 
Finance Company GAP policy.
That means Marsh put Mr C back into the position he would have been in if he'd been able 
to claim on his GAP policy. So I don't think he's out of pocket or been otherwise 
disadvantaged because Marsh couldn't identify who the insurer of the policy was. That said 
I'm aware that this complaint's caused Mr C some distress and inconvenience, and to 
address that I think its fair that Marsh pays him compensation of £50.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Marsh Finance Limited 
to pay Mr C £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. It should pay the 
compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr C has accepted my final decision. If it 
pays later than this, it must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Marsh pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.