DRN-2650338
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy Zurich Assurance Ltd has declined her critical illness insurance claim. 
Mrs D is being represented by her sister, but for ease Ill refer to Mrs D throughout. 
What happened
In 2007 Mrs D completed an application for a decreasing term assurance policy alongside 
her mortgage. 
Within this application she answered No to the following questions; 
Have you used any tobacco products or nicotine substitutes in the last 12 months? If yes 
how much on average each day? 
Did you ever regularly use more tobacco products or nicotine substitutes prior to the last 21 
months? If yes, how much on average each day?
Zurich then sent a copy of the application to Mrs D to check. Mrs D made two amendments 
to her date of birth and marital status on the application and returned it to Zurich. 
Unfortunately, Mrs D had to make a claim under the critical illness section of her policy in 
2019. Whilst reviewing the claim, Zurich noticed that Mrs D was an ex-smoker. So, it 
contacted her to ask if she had smoked. Mrs D said she was only a social smoker and 
wouldnt actively smoke. Mrs D also confirmed she stopped smoking around 2008. 
In December 2019 Zurich decided to reject the claim. It said Mrs D had deliberately 
misrepresented her smoking history, so it cancelled her policy and returned her premiums. 
Mrs D was unhappy with this outcome, so she made a complaint. Zurich reviewed the 
complaint but didnt change its decision. Mrs D remained unhappy, so she brought her 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld. He agreed Mrs D had made a 
misrepresentation of her smoking history. But he said this was careless rather than 
deliberate or reckless. 
Zurich disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. It said Mrs D had admitted to 
giving up smoking after she applied for the policy. And that Mrs D had said she would 
normally tell insurance companies when applying for similar policies about her occasional 
smoking and allowed the company to decide how the form should be completed. Zurich said 
this shows Mrs D deliberately or recklessly completed the application. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
As the sale of this policy was in 2007, Ive considered the Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) Code on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly (the Code).
Was there a misrepresentation?
Ive carefully considered all the evidence here. Having done so, I believe its clear Mrs D 
didnt answer the questions about her smoking history correctly. So, I think its fair that Zurich 
said she failed to take reasonable care when answering the questions. 
Was it fair for Zurich to avoid the policy and return the premiums?
Zurich believes Mrs Ds misrepresentation should be classed as deliberate or reckless. For 
me to agree that Mrs Ds misrepresentation should be considered deliberate or reckless, I 
would need to be satisfied  on balance - she knew or must have known the information 
given was incorrect and relevant to the insurer or she acted without any care as to whether it 
was correct or relevant. 
Ive considered this carefully. Having done so, I agree with the investigator that Mrs D was 
careless when completing her application. Guidance issued by the ABI says that to classify a 
misrepresentation as careless, it needs to be shown that Mrs D didnt take reasonable care 
and this can include anything from an understandable oversight, or an inadvertent mistaken, 
to serious negligence.
Ive taken into account that Mrs D was very young at the time of the application and has said 
she mentioned her occasional smoking to the advisor. So, Im satisfied  on balance  her 
age and the conversation with the advisor was why she didnt amend the form when Zurich 
sent it to her to be checked. And Im not persuaded Mrs D deliberately set out to mislead 
Zurich here. Although I think she was aware of the question, I dont think  on balance - she 
was aware of its significance at the time of the application. 
I note Mrs D told Zurich she would make companies aware of her social smoking and 
normally let those companies decide what to do with that information. I believe Mrs D is 
stating she understood the question here. But I dont think that shows  on balance - she 
was aware at the time of the application of the affect her answers would have on Zurich and 
her policy. Mrs D said in the same letter she regularly went months without smoking and 
couldnt answer how many cigarettes she had every day as this would regularly be zero. I 
think this shows Mrs D to be honest, as do some of the other responses Mrs D has made 
when asked about her smoking history. 
So, Im satisfied Mrs D made an understandable and inadvertent mistake when completing 
the application which should be considered a careless misrepresentation in line with the 
Code. Putting things right
Zurich has said it wouldve applied smokers rates to the policy if the above questions had 
been answered correctly. It should therefore reinstate Mrs Ds policy, apply those rates and 
pay the claim proportionately in line with the Code. It should also add 8% simple interest per 
year from the date it provided its original claims decision until the date it makes the payment. 
I note Zurich has refunded premiums to Mrs D. So, its entitled to deduct these premiums 
from any settlement it makes to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. Zurich Assurance Ltd must do 
the following:
1. Mrs Ds policy must be reinstated from the date of acceptance of my decision if 
Mrs D accepts it. 
2. Zurich must pay the claim proportionately in line with the Code and pay 8% simple 
interest per year from the date it provided its original claims decision until the date it 
makes the payment. 
3. Zurich may deduct the premiums it is owed (because of the premiums it refunded to 
Mrs D) from any payment due. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman