DRN-3043035
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to the 
benefits of a solar panel system that they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
What happened
In or around May 2013, Mr and Mrs S were visited by a representative of a company, which 
Ill call P, to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. During that visit, Mr and Mrs S decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
Mr and Mrs S are represented in this complaint by a claims management company (the 
CMC). In 2016, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs S behalf under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations and failings had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £7,200.00 to 
mislead Mr and Mrs S  this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan, so the true cost was £13,997.40; 
Mr and Mrs S were promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £709.00 and this didnt 
take into account the full cost of making their loan repayments. The CMC has stated 
a number of different figures for Mr and Mrs S alleged deficit in benefits against cost 
to them. These range from £254.37 to £431.24 a year in various correspondence 
theyve had with us and Shawbrook; 
the credit agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments alone; 
the system would not cost them a penny; 
they would make savings on their electricity bills; 
Shawbrook had failed to assess Mr and Mrs S credit worthiness;
Mr and Mrs S believed theyd taken out a loan agreement over a period of 10 years. 
The details of the loan agreement were not clearly explained to Mr and Mrs S, so 
they were unaware the loan term was actually for 15 years; 
Mr and Mrs S had been pressurised into signing the agreement and purchasing the 
solar panel system; and, 
it hadnt been explained that the performance of the system would deteriorate slightly 
year on year.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr and Mrs S and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations 
made about the systems expected performance.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided: a copy of a record of a 
non-compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated 
December 2013, copies of marketing material used by P, job adverts for P, the loan 
agreement with Shawbrook and some of Mr and Mrs S electricity bills.
In its final response to this complaint, Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information it 
held on file, as well as information provided by P, that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. In summary, it said:
the fixed sum loan agreement was clear, and Mr and Mrs S were also provided with a 
copy of their credit agreement, which detailed their monthly loan repayment amount; 
the contract P had provided Mr and Mrs S set out the estimated total returns from the 
system and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was 
not self-funding immediately and that there would be a cost for Mr and Mrs S to pay; 
the contract with P showed that the expected annual return in year one was £709.00, 
whereas the loan agreement repayments were £76.93 a month, or £923.16 over the 
year, so there would be a clear shortfall between the expected benefits and the loan 
repayments; 
P said that Mr and Mrs S had raised no concerns with it about being pressurised into 
agreeing to the installation of the system and the associated finance, and they hadnt 
exercised their right to cancel the contract within the cancellation period; 
the performance of the system and any deterioration is typical as with most 
consumable products there is always an element of degeneration, and they would 
not expect Mr and Mrs S solar panels to be perpetual; 
as part of their loan application, Shawbrook had completed a full credit check to 
assess Mr and Mrs S credit worthiness and their ability to repay the loan. Mr and Mrs 
S met its lending criteria and the account hadnt been in arrears. Shawbrook did offer 
to discuss Mr and Mrs S ability to meet their loan repayments moving forward; and
Shawbrook didnt pay any commission to P for introducing Mr and Mrs S to it.
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information and 
evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Mr 
and Mrs S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
the quotation document used as evidence to reach the investigators opinion was 
unsigned by Mr and Mrs S, therefore how was the investigator able to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs S were able to read, digest and understand it; 
Mr and Mrs S were presented with a written contract. So, P would not have produced 
a written contract if their process was also to send a signed electronic quotation. 
Therefore, this suggests the quotation has been generated, perhaps fraudulently as a way of defending this case; 
they feel the investigator hasnt been due diligent enough when reaching their 
opinion, especially when theyve heavily relied upon a quotation that is unsigned and 
cannot produce any evidence of the correspondence ever being sent to Mr and Mrs 
S; and
the electricity rate being used to calculate Mr and Mrs S electricity savings is 
incorrect; therefore, the predicted electricity savings have been over-inflated;
It also suggested that we speak to Mr and Mrs S for their recollections. Our investigator 
spoke to them each separately. When our investigator spoke to Mr and Mrs S, they told us:
they were considering getting solar panels and they initially registered their interest 
for the system with P via an internet search; 
P visited them at their home and advised them about their options; 
they opted to use Ps service as finance was available to purchase the solar panel 
system; 
the system was advertised as self-financing and would pay for itself and be financed 
by a credit agreement; 
the salesperson for P told them that the quarterly payments they would receive would 
counterbalance their loan repayments; 
the system would essentially be self-funding from when they received their first FIT 
payment; 
the FIT payments were never enough to cover the monthly loan repayments;
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr and Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, the parties accept that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs S could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook. For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation 
as an untrue statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party 
which induces that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more of the following: 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement; 
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement; 
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and matters 
relating to the debtor).
I will consider below whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Mr and Mrs S recollection of the sale
Ive considered the calls that Mr and Mrs S had with our investigator and thought about 
these along with the complaint the CMC submitted to Shawbrook. Ive noted that Mr and Mrs 
S recollections do differ in some small respects to the complaint letter submitted by the 
CMC. As an example, the CMC has said that Mr and Mrs S were cold called by P, whereas 
they told us that they found P via an internet search and they then contacted it.
The CMC also said that the system would pay for itself over the loan term, however Mr and 
Mrs S said that they were told the system would pay for itself from when they received their 
first FIT payment.
Mr and Mrs S have chosen to be represented by the CMC in their complaint to Shawbrook. 
The complaint letter submitted to Shawbrook was lengthy and set out in great detail the 
reasons for the section 75 claim and the alleged representations that were made that 
induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract.
In deciding what I think is most likely to have happened, Ive taken into account both Mr and 
Mrs S recent testimony and that given to us by the CMC in the original complaint. 
Importantly here, it does appear that Mr and Mrs S were in the market for solar panels at the 
time. And I think more likely than not contacted P, rather than being cold-called by it as the 
CMC said to Shawbrook. Thats important, as Mr and Mrs S say that they went with P 
because of the availability of finance. So, its fair to assume that the finance was key to some of the conversations that they had with P.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC and Shawbrook. These 
include, the sale contract, the credit agreement and Mr and Mrs S solar quote. Ive 
considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs S recollection of the sale.
As previously mentioned, the CMC doubts that Mr and Mrs S ever received the quotation 
document. Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ps sale process. This 
detailed that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers shortly 
after the initial meeting via email. Based on our experience of what we have seen with 
similar complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent this 
document to Mr and Mrs S. So, I have no reason to doubt thats what happened in this case. 
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The sales contract details the total cost, what was being bought and the projected income. 
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The quotation document
Mr and Mrs S have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by their FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided 
by P and considered whether this supports what they say they were told, as I consider the 
quote was central to the sales presentation.
Page four of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive 
by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income 
over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, clearly show that Mr and Mrs S could expect 
to receive a total income in year one of £509.62 from their FIT.
Page four of the quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs S could expect 
from their system as well as any savings they would make from taking out any optional 
extras, including a voltage optimiser. The expected year one electricity saving is £201.22 
and the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £837.05. This is shown in a 
table titled Putting it all together.
The quote includes a page containing four tables, one titled system performance, and the 
other three tables come under the title repayment options. The Repayment options has 
three tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. The table for 180 months 
is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs S entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out 
that there are 180 monthly payments of £78.38 due and compares the overall expected 
grand total from the system, averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan 
repayments. This figure is slightly different to that on the credit agreement, but I dont 
consider this to be material in terms of the overall effect of the information provided by the 
estimates in the quote.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare their FIT income to their 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover their monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im satisfied that they werent 
told that their monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system and expected benefits
Mr and Mrs S have said that the cost of the system was documented as £7,200.00, they 
have said that this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan. So, it hid the true cost of the system, £13,997.40. 
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr and Mrs S makes it clear that the cost of the 
system is £7,200.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total 
amount of credit is £7,200.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£13,997.40. 
I think that the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due, as set out in the table above. Taking the documents together, Im satisfied they made it 
clear that although the cost of the system was £7,200.00, it would cost Mr and Mrs S more 
than this as they had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would not cost them a penny, 
and that they could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £709.00.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two. 
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr and Mrs S were expected to have 
made a loss of £8.62 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of £5.23 
a month. It wouldnt be until the fourth year that the expected benefits would exceed their 
monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
and Im unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs S were told that the system would not cost them 
a penny. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between their expected 
income and monthly loan repayments.
In addition to this, page two of the quote has a graph illustrating the difference between the 
expected income and loan repayments:
Again, Im unable to conclude that the system would not cost them a penny as the graph, in 
my view, clearly illustrates the expected shortfall between the expected income compared to 
the monthly loan repayments. 
I have noted that the documents detail slightly different benefits. The quote indicates that Mr 
and Mrs S would receive an estimated year one benefit of £837.05, contrary to the £709 that 
was stated on the hand-written sales contract. It appears that the discrepancy may be 
because the voltage optimiser is included on the quote and not in the savings figures in the 
sales contract. 
The CMC has said that it doesnt think Mr and Mrs S got the quote. Whilst I havent found 
that to be the case. If I were to accept that they hadnt seen it, I also consider that the 
savings of £709 set out in the contract would also clearly have been less than the amount 
payable under the finance each month, which over the year totals £923.16, a difference of 
£214.16. That I think was clear from the documentation that the CMC accepts their clients 
did receive. And, again, shows that these panels wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
Mr and Mrs S say they were told by P that the system would pay for itself over the term of 
the loan. The quote has a table headed Estimated performance over 20 years:
This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under their loan agreement. This table also 
sets out the panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made them aware that the 
performance of the system would deteriorate over its lifetime. The quote document also 
refers to any warranty associated with the system or the inverter and whilst Mr and Mrs S 
have said they didnt have a warranty, Im satisfied that they did. The contract details on its 
reverse side that the system has a 10-year warranty and the inverter a 20-year one. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P more likely than not told Mr and Mrs S that the 
system would pay for itself by year 13, as supported by the table above. 
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs S. The quote sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 2,875.99 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income, by way of FIT 
payments and savings in their energy bills, that Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive. 
Between 21 May 2013 and 18 September 2015 (an 851-day period), the system generated a 
total of 6,519 kWh. I have calculated that the system generates, on average, 7.66 kWh per 
day or 2,796 kWh a year. This is within a reasonable tolerance of the estimated generation 
provided in the quote, so Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the quote. 
So, based on this, I would expect Mr and Mrs S system to be generating benefits in line 
with, or exceeding, those estimated by P. Mr and Mrs S have said that this isnt the case so 
Ive gone on to consider whether P have overstated the potential income and savings Mr and 
Mrs S could expect to receive by, for example using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote P provided to Mr and Mrs S was personalised to their specific circumstances and 
used a number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits they could 
expect to receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected 
annual generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy generated by the system 
that Mr and Mrs S would use rather than buying it from their energy provider, therefore 
leading to savings on their energy bills, and the expected increase in utility prices alongside 
the expected annual increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI 
were based on the Office for National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2013.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote. 
The quote sets out that Mr and Mrs S were expected to use, or self-consume, 45% of the 
electricity generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual 
saving of £201.22. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the ONS 
data Ive mentioned above. 
It appears from Mr and Mrs S electricity bills that in the first year after the panels were 
installed, their electricity consumption dropped by about 2000 kWh. So, in the absence of 
any other explanation for their electricity use going down, Mr and Mrs S were getting benefits 
from the panels which would appear to exceed the assumed benefits used in the quote and 
on the contract. So, its my finding that the assumptions used in that regard werent 
overestimated and accordingly there was no misrepresentation to the detriment of Mr and 
Mrs S in terms of electricity consumed. 
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Mr and Mrs S could expect to 
receive from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line 
with the available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases was 
8.5% and for RPI was 2.72%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 
2015 to 2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased in line with the 
estimates provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests that energy prices have 
increased by 3.7% and RPI by 2.56%. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions 
used by P and in my view may explain why they havent received the financial returns from 
the system that they may have expected.
The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS from 2005 to 2013. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate the expected financial returns from the system. Im of the 
view that this may go some way to explaining why the system may not turn out to be self-
funding by year 13. Although with energy prices currently on the increase, that data may turn 
out to be correct after all. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S are disappointed by the financial returns 
from their system so far, although Im satisfied that this isnt due to P using unreasonable 
assumptions when they entered into the contract for the system.S140A of the Act
Ive considered whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair relationship under 
s140A of the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and that Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think 
a court is unlikely to conclude that there was an unfair relationship here under the Act.
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that all the evidence it had provided 
hadnt been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by P along 
with the findings of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel 
hearing from December 2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about P and isnt dated. Mr and Mrs S have also said that 
they found and approached P through an internet search. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this information was provided to Mr and Mrs S, or that it relates to the time their panels were 
sold. Whilst it does refer to the system paying for itself and being self-funding, Im not 
persuaded I can place as much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mr 
and Mrs S personalised quote. And, as I have explained above, at the time Mr and Mrs S 
entered into the contract with P, Im satisfied that their system would have been self-funding 
and pay for itself by year 13 of the loan. 
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013. That was shortly after 
Mr and Mrs S purchased their panels. So, it could be relevant. But given the documentation 
that Mr and Mrs S received and my findings that it was they that approached P and not the 
other way round, Im satisfied that theirs wasnt a case where the misrepresentations 
described were made.
Mr and Mrs S raised some concerns about Ps sales process. They said that they were 
pressurised into entering the contract and the fixed sum loan agreement They said a proper 
affordability check wasnt conducted and that they are now struggling to make their 
contractual monthly loan repayments.
Based on the available evidence that has been provided, I havent found that the sales 
process was unreasonably pressured. Taking account of the overall cost of the system 
alongside the length of the loan term, I dont think the two-hour length of the meeting with P 
at Mr and Mrs S home was unreasonable. It was they that had approached P and requested 
a meeting. And they ended up buying the panels there and then when they found that 
finance was available. 
In that regard, I consider the loan documentation clearly shows it was for 15 years rather 
than the 10 that Mr and Mrs S said they thought theyd signed up to. There also wasnt any 
complaint made immediately after the panels were sold. And it wasnt until 2016 that the 
CMC made a complaint on Mr and Mrs S behalf. So, I cant say that it looks like they had 
any concerns about the sale until much later on when the benefits may have been found not 
to be quite as much as they had hoped. 
Shawbrook has said that it did carry out credit checks on Mr and Mrs S ability to meet the 
payments. There werent subsequently any defaults in those payments. And Im satisfied that proportionate checks were carried out in this case.
Conclusion 
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by the parties to this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs S 
to enter into the contract for the system. So, its not a complaint that I shall be upholding.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman