DRN-4109380
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse the full amount of money he 
was scammed into transferring from his Barclays current account to another bank.
Mr Gs complaint to brought to this service by his authorised representative. But for ease of 
reference, Ill refer solely to Mr G throughout this letter.
What happened
Mr G was the victim of a scam whereby he was persuaded to open a new bank account with 
another bank and make a series of transfers from his Barclays current account to that newly 
opened account (the other account), from which Mr G was subsequently persuaded to 
make ongoing transfers to the scammers account. 
When Mr G realised what had happened, he reported the scam to Barclays. But Barclays 
couldnt recover the money Mr G had lost. Mr G wasnt happy with what had happened and 
felt that Barclays should have done more to prevent him from being scammed and so should 
reimburse the full amount that hed lost to him. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr G and accepted that, from the third payment that Mr G had made 
to the other account onwards, Barclays should have recognised that something untoward 
might have been happening. However, Barclays also felt that Mr G himself should 
reasonably have done more to mitigate against what happened. Barclays therefore upheld 
Mr Gs complaint and reimbursed 50% of the transfer amounts Mr G had made to the other 
account from the third payment onwards. Mr G wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so 
he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Gs complaint. But they felt that the response to Mr Gs 
complaint made by Barclays  including the partial reimbursement  already represented a 
fair outcome to what had happened. Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr G has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr G for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr G notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr G and Barclays. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr G has referred to the Contingency Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. But the CRM 
doesnt apply when payments are made on whats known as a me-to-me basis. And in this 
instance, Mr G made the transfers from his Barclays account to the other account, which 
was also his own account having been opened by Mr G with the other bank in his own name. 
And its also acknowledged that it was Mr G who forwarded the money from the other 
account to the scammers account, meaning theres nothing to indicate that Mr G didnt have 
control over the other account. As such, Im satisfied that the CRM Code doesnt apply here 
Mr G has also referenced the Quincecare duty in his ongoing correspondence with this 
service. I can confirm that Im aware of this judgement and that Ive taken it into 
consideration when reviewing this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr G was the victim of a scam here, and I sympathise with him and 
with the worry and distress he's experienced because of what happened. However, it must 
be acknowledged that Barclays werent an active party in the scam. 
So, while I appreciate Mr G feels Barclays should have done more to prevent him from being 
scammed, Id only consider instructing Barclays to reimburse to him the remaining money 
that hes lost if I felt that Barclays should have recognised Mr G was or may have been in the 
process of being scammed such that they should have taken action that I feel would have 
been likely to have prevented the scam. And if I felt that Barclays should fairly be considered 
as being solely responsible for Mr G losing the money that he did, including if Barclays had 
had a reasonable opportunity to recover the money for Mr G but had failed to do so. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a business such as Barclays is expected to 
process payments and transfers that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And given 
that it isnt disputed that Mr G did authorise these transfers  regardless as to why he 
authorised them  I feel that the starting position here is that Mr G should be considered 
liable for any loss that he incurred as a result.
But the regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement 
for businesses such as Barclays to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. 
And this includes monitoring transactions to look out for activity that might suggest a 
customer was at risk of financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character 
transactions, and trying to prevent customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought 
about whether Barclays did enough to try to keep Mr Gs money safe.
Barclays agreed to partially reimburse Mr G because they felt they should have recognised 
that, from the third payment to the other account onwards, something potentially untoward 
might have been happened. But Barclays also felt that Mr G should bear some responsibility 
for his loss because he should have acted differently in response to the scam than he did. Specifically, Barclays felt that Mr G should reasonably have been alerted to the possibility 
that he might be being scammed by his being asked to open the other account in his name 
and to transfer money in tranches from his Barclays account to the other account, and then 
onwards from the other account to a further account that wasnt in his name and that was 
owned by the scammers.
Ive thought about whether Barclays should have reimbursed Mr G from the first payment 
onwards  rather than from the first. But given the circumstances surrounding those first two 
payments, including that they werent particularly unusual in amount in consideration of how 
Mr G generally maintained his account, I dont feel that Barclays should reasonably have 
considered these first two payments to the other account to have been of potential concern.
Ive also thought about whether Barclays should be considered solely accountable for the 
loss that Mr G incurred, such that they should be instructed to reimburse the payment 
amounts to Mr G in full. However, I do feel that Mr G  having been instructed to open the 
other account  could and reasonably should have recognised that such an instruction might 
not be legitimate and so should have taken precautionary steps against what transpired. 
These could have included contacting Barclays directly via a phone number provided by 
Barclays on its website, visiting a Barclays branch to discuss the matter with branch staff, or 
researching online the potential legitimacy of the instructions hed received, including 
whether he might have been in the process of being scammed. And I feel that, had Mr G 
taken any of these steps, there was a good chance the scam would have been uncovered 
before it took place so that the loss Mr G now claims against would not have occurred.
Ultimately, given the above, I dont feel Barclays should fairly be held solely accountable for 
the loss that Mr G incurred here. Rather, I feel that Mr G should bear some responsibility for 
his loss, given that I feel he failed to take reasonable steps to mitigate against it.
All of which means that Im satisfied that, by reimbursing to Mr G 50% of the payments from 
the third payment onwards, Barclays have already resolved this complaint in a fair manner 
and that therefore no further action should be instructed of them. And it follows therefore that 
I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr G was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman