DRN-3188526
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr V complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their house insurance claim 
for a lost bracelet.   
What happened
Mrs M and Mr V are joint policyholders of home insurance, insured by AXA. The policy had a 
policy limit of £10,000 for unspecified personal possessions with an excess of £350.
In October 2020 Mrs M claimed for a diamond bracelet which shed lost. When she made the 
claim she told AXA her mother had bought her the bracelet in 2019 for a special birthday, 
she didnt want to tell her mother shed lost her gift but she thought it was worth about 
£2,500. Mrs M provided photos of her wearing the bracelet.
AXAs valuer asked Mrs M for the bracelets purchase receipt. Mrs M returned saying when 
shed asked for the receipt her mother told her she bought the bracelet in 2007 for about 
£2,400 and kept it before gifting to Mrs M. Mrs M said her mother didnt have the receipt for 
the bracelet and the shop where her mother bought the bracelet had closed.
AXA declined the claim. AXAs valuers report said if the authenticity of the diamonds could 
be validated the bracelet would be worth between £3,994 and £6,657. AXA said its guidance 
for jewellery claims was that anything valued at over £3,000 required a plausible description 
of item/its acquisition AND Purchase Receipt  OR Valuation Made Out to the Policyholder 
OR Will/Probate document. AXA told Mrs M it couldnt validate the authenticity of the 
diamond bracelet or ownership from her photos and as there was no receipt there was no 
cover under the policy terms. 
Mrs M provided further evidence which included: a 2018 photo of her mother wearing the 
bracelet, a letter from her mothers home insurer (not AXA) saying her mother had insured a 
diamond bracelet since 2015 which is when Mrs M said the policy started; her mothers 
policy schedule showing a diamond bracelet insured as a specified personal belonging. 
Mrs M also sent valuations of her other jewellery, which she had done after AXA declined 
her claim, to evidence that she owned several pieces of diamond jewellery worth several 
thousand pounds. She was upset that AXAs valuer had said a similar looking bracelet to the 
one she claimed for could be bought for £2.
AXA still declined the claim and Mrs M and Mr V complained to us.
Our investigator addressed AXAs concerns about inconsistences in the claim and said it 
had unfairly declined the claim. He recommended AXA pay the claim to the value Mrs Ms 
mother had insured the bracelet for, £2,239.
Mrs M and Mr V accept our investigators recommendation. AXA disagrees and wants an 
ombudsmans decision. In summary it said:
Mrs M was inconsistent in initially saying her mother bought the bracelet in 2019 then 
saying the bracelet was bought in 2007 and gifted to her in 2019.
The diamond bracelet shown on Mrs Ms mother home insurance policy schedule 
may be a different bracelet to the one Mrs M claimed for. The policy schedule is 
dated after the bracelet claimed for was gifted to Mrs M and is valued for the 2007 
purchase price Mrs M said, not a recent valuation which would probably be higher. 
Alternatively the schedule showed that Mrs Ms mother was the owner of the 
bracelet, not Mrs M.
It was irrelevant that Mrs M had other items of diamond jewellery which had been 
valued at a reasonably high amount. Those valuations didnt prove the bracelet 
claimed for was a diamond bracelet.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether AXA fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I dont think it 
did. I uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
What you must do after making your claim
To help prove your claim we may require you to provide original purchase receipts, 
invoices, bank or credit card statements, instruction booklets, photographs, utility 
bills, pre-purchase surveys or plans and deeds of your property.
AXAs own guidance says that for jewellery valued over £3,000 it needs a purchase receipt 
as well as a plausible description of item/its acquisition. But the policy doesnt say theres no 
cover without a purchase receipt, the policy refers to other supporting evidence. So where 
there is no purchase receipt I think its fair for AXA to consider the overall evidence to see if 
Mrs M has reasonably validated her claim.  
AXA has detailed its concerns about the inconsistencies in the information Mrs M provided. 
Its not impossible that AXAs interpretation is correct but given the overall evidence I think 
Mrs M has reasonably established that she had a valid claim for her diamond bracelet. I say 
that because:
Im persuaded by what Mrs M says about initially not wanting to tell her mother that 
shed lost the bracelet, she thought the bracelet had just been bought when her 
mother gifted it and her mother only told her when the bracelet was purchased when 
she asked for the receipt. The photo from May 2018 of her mother wearing the same 
bracelet supports that she had the bracelet for at least a year before she gifted the 
item to Mrs M.
Im persuaded by Mrs Ms comments that her mother renewed her home insurance 
policy without checking what was on the schedule. I dont think thats unusual for a 
consumer in her mothers circumstances. I think its unlikely that Mrs Ms mothers 
home insurer required a valuation to insure her specified personal belongings and 
while AXAs valuer estimated the bracelet claimed for had increased in value I also 
dont think its unusual for consumers to insure items for the purchase price. AXA 
hasnt been prejudiced by that because Mrs M has said she will accept a settlement for the amount the bracelet is insured for on that policy
I dont think the bracelet being on Mrs Ms mothers policy schedule means she 
owned the bracelet when it was lost. I think Mrs M has given plausible consistent 
evidence of her mother gifting the bracelet to her. There are photos of Mrs M wearing 
the bracelet on several different occasions. If the bracelet had belonged to Mrs Ms 
mother I think its likely her mother would have a claimed on her insurance as the 
item was on her policy schedule. Mrs M said her mother didnt claim because they 
were being honest in claiming on Mrs Ms insurance as she owned the bracelet.
While the valuations for Mrs Ms other jewellery dont prove the bracelet claimed for 
was also diamond its evidence that Mrs M owns several pieces of authenticated 
diamond jewellery, including other bracelets, of reasonably high value. That fits in 
with Mrs Ms testimony of receiving a diamond bracelet as a gift for a significant 
birthday. She provided a photo from a photoshoot she had for that birthday which 
shows her wearing the bracelet claimed for as well as several pieces of the 
authenticated diamond jewellery referred to in the valuations. I think its unlikely she 
would have worn a bracelet of an inferior quality for that event. Given the overall 
evidence I think its more likely than not the bracelet claimed for was an authentic 
diamond bracelet. 
Even though Im satisfied that Mrs Ms claimed for an authentic diamond bracelet I accept 
theres difficulty in valuing the item from Mrs Ms photos. Mrs M has accepted our 
investigators recommendation that the settlement value of the bracelet be the amount her 
mother had insured it at, £2,239. Shes aware that amount is less than the potential value 
range AXAs valuer gave if the diamonds were authenticated. Given my findings above 
I dont think theres any basis for AXA to say valuing the bracelet at £2,239 for settlement is 
too much.
Putting things right
AXA should settle the claim on the basis that the bracelet is worth £2,239 subject to the 
remaining policy terms and excess. Interest should be added to the settlement as Ive 
detailed below.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to settle the claim on the basis that the bracelet is worth 
£2,239 subject to the remaining policy terms and excess. Interest* should be added to the 
settlement at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs M and Mr V how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs M and Mr V a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Nicola SiskOmbudsman