DRN-3225544
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund money he says he didnt withdraw from his 
account.
What happened
Mr R says he didnt withdraw £130 in cash from his account on 28 June 2021. He says that 
his card and PIN were taken from his home. And he was in hospital at the time. TSB had told 
him that the account was blocked on 21 June 2021 so it shouldnt have been possible to 
withdraw the money.
TSB said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The withdrawal had been made when the chip 
on Mr Rs card was read and the correct PIN entered. It couldnt see how a fraudster would 
have anticipated this money being credited into the account that day. And it couldnt see a 
point of compromise. It said Mr R might want to pursue this with police. TSB accepted that it 
had told Mr R that the account was blocked. But it had removed this block on 23 June 2021 
to allow a credit. And due to human error hadnt re-applied this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr R hadnt been able to 
provide evidence of where he was on 28 June 2021. Mr R had made two previous similar 
claims in the preceding month and it was unlikely this would have happened three times. 
There had been a balance enquiry to the account when there was no money available on 27 
June 2021. Mr R had said that the £130 was a hardship payment many local residents 
received. But our investigator didnt think a fraudster would simply assume it had been paid 
overnight when making the withdrawal at 07:41 on 28 June 2021. The card had also been 
used for an undisputed withdrawal on 25 June 2021, so he thought Mr R knew that the 
account wasnt still blocked.
Mr R didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he never made the 
withdrawal on 25 June 2021 and he had to visit a branch to withdraw cash. As TSB had 
taken responsibility for not having kept the block on the account in its final response he 
couldnt see why it wasnt at least in some part responsible for what had happened. He said 
he was having financial problems and needed some help with this money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if it wasnt authorised   
Mr R wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used here?
- Did Mr R authorise the payment on the account, as TSB says?
Ive seen the payment audit log and am satisfied that the withdrawal was made when the 
genuine card was used, and the correct PIN entered. So, the payment was authenticated.
Im looking specifically here at the withdrawal of £130. Mr R has now indicated he disputes a 
withdrawal of £46 on 25 June 2021. The specific amount involved suggests it was made in a 
branch not at a cash machine. But he hasnt raised this payment dispute before. And he is 
noted by TSB to have visited a branch on 29 June 2021 to report what happened on the 
account.
Mr R has described having serious health issues and Ive no reason to doubt that. The point 
though is whether those health issues meant that he was in hospital and/or incapable of 
withdrawing the money on 28 June 2021. He hasnt been able to show that and as I said 
above he was reported as being in branch the next day. He would likely then have been in a 
position to explain where he had been at the time and obtain any evidence. And his ill health 
also doesnt rule out him allowing someone else to make the withdrawal.
The other point Im thinking about is how someone came to have his card and find out the 
PIN. There is a note made by TSB that Mr R stated on 29 June 2021 that he had never 
received the card. He now says that his house was broken into and the card and PIN advice 
taken. Again, there is no evidence of that which isnt explained. I also note that he had made 
two similar claims before and received fraud refunds. I think that it is unlikely that this would 
happen so many times and also that he wouldnt have reasonably been more alert to the 
risk.
I also agree with our investigator that its unlikely a fraudster would anticipate this money 
coming into the account without making a balance enquiry.
I appreciate that his account ought to have been blocked and if it had been the withdrawal 
couldnt have been made from a cash machine. But that would only really be relevant to this 
dispute if I thought someone else had as a result been able to make the withdrawal. And not 
if I thought this was made by Mr R. There are grounds to think he knew the account was no 
longer blocked following the previously undisputed transaction on 25 June 2021 I referred to 
above.
Having considered all these factors I dont consider its most likely that Mr R didnt consent to 
the payment and so authorise it. I know he has financial problems and that he will be very 
disappointed when I say that I wont be requiring TSB to do anything further.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman