DRN-4030529
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Elderbridge Limited didnt fairly handle their claim under sections 
75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  
Mr and Mrs L are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around September 2003, Mr and Mrs L agreed to purchase a trial timeshare 
membership sold to them by a company Ill refer to as C. The membership purchased was 
in the form of points they could use against holidays and services provided by C. 
The total cost of the timeshare membership was £17,994. The purchase was funded by 
trading in an existing trial timeshare for a value of £2,995 with the remainder funded on a 
fixed cost holiday ownership loan of £14,995 repayable over 180 months.
During the course of the loans life, ownership and management of the debt changed on two 
occasions and currently sits with Elderbridge. 
In October 2020, the CMC submitted a claim in writing to Elderbridge under sections 75 and 
140 of the CCA. They said it was a legal claim and not a complaint under the DISP rules  
Dispute Resolution: Complaints (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook.
The CMC said that C had misrepresented a number of benefits and features associated with 
the product Mr and Mrs L purchased. They also thought the relationship between Mr and 
Mrs L and C was unfair meaning their relationship with Elderbridge was also unfair under 
section 140A (S140A) of the CCA. To support this, their comments included that C:
took payment for the timeshare within the cooling off period;
failed to provide key information about the contract;
failed to inform Mr and Mrs L a meeting they attended was actually a sales event; 
and
failed to draw Mr and Mrs Ls attention to their right of withdrawal;
The CMC further said Mr and Mrs L were subjected to high pressure sales tactics to 
persuade them to enter into the purchase agreement quickly and that the contract appears 
to reserve a discretion to calculate annual maintenance fees.
On a final point, the CMC thought any commercial arrangements between Elderbridge and C 
werent clear, and the level of commission paid to C is relevant to the issue of an unfair 
relationship.
Elderbridge responded to Mr and Mrs Ls claim a few days later. They said, As C sold the 
loan to you and we were not present at the point of sale we are unable to investigate your 
concerns. Elderbridge also include details of Mr and Mrs Ls rights to refer their complaint to 
this service.
Having received their response, the CMC complained to Elderbridge on Mr and Mrs Ls 
behalf. They said Elderbridge have not provided an appropriate response under the Pre 
Action Protocol. Elderbridge dont appear to have responded to that complaint letter. So, the 
CMC referred Mr and Mrs Ls complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. In response to our 
investigators requests for information, Elderbridge said they thought any complaint they had 
in relation to the product purchase in 2003 falls outside of this services jurisdiction. On 23 
February 2023, I issued a decision confirming that I believe Mr and Mrs Ls complaint was 
one that this service could consider.
Having considered all the information and evidence available, our investigator didnt think 
Elderbridge needed to do anything more. Our investigator said the supplier (C) wasnt 
regulated until April 2007, and so didnt fall under this services jurisdiction at the time of the 
product sale and related loan agreement. Our investigator also thought any claim for 
misrepresentation had been brought too late, so couldnt be considered.
As regards the claim under S140A, our investigator didnt agree there was anything to 
suggest an unfair relationship existed between Mr and Mrs L and C. So, didnt think this 
aspect should be upheld. 
Finally, our investigator didnt believe there was any regulatory requirement to disclose 
commissions paid by Elderbridge to C, and even so, any commission paid wasnt likely to 
result in making the relationship unfair under S140A.
Elderbridge accepted our investigators findings and has nothing further to add. The CMC 
didnt accept our investigators findings and reiterated many of the points raised in their 
original claim and complaint to Elderbridge.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs Ls complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
The role of this service, when considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint here, is to examine and 
decide whether Elderbridges response appears to have been fair and reasonable, given all 
the circumstances. When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the 
Dispute rules in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook (DISP) means Im 
required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service and cant make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer 
doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue any 
claim or complaint in other ways.
Its important to recognise that where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or 
contradictory, my decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, 
means Ive based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the 
evidence thats available from the time and the wider circumstances.
Where the purchase price paid for a product or service is funded with a fixed sum loan, 
Section 75 (S75) of the CCA can apply to the whole transaction. Where it does, it means 
the purchaser (in this case, Mr and Mrs L) could claim against the creditor (Elderbridge) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier (C) in the same way they 
couldve claimed against that supplier.
Given the facts of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, relevant law also includes the Limitation Act 
1980 (LA). This is because the original transaction - the purchase funded by a loan with 
Elderbridge - took place in 2003. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as 
its relevant law, I shall consider the effect this might have also.
Authorisation to arrange the loan
The CMC believe C were not regulated by the FSA (Financial Services Authority) - now the 
FCA until 26 March 2015 and that Mr and Mrs L werent told they were receiving advice from 
unregulated intermediaries.
Prior to 1 April 2014, the regulation of consumer credit firms was the responsibility of the 
Office of Fair Trading (OFT). OFT regulated consumer credit firms fell under this services 
Consumer Credit Jurisdiction from 6 April 2007. So, any existing OFT authorised firms came 
under this services jurisdiction at that point. 
Records show that C fell under this services consumer credit jurisdiction on 6 April 2007. 
And that would only have happened if theyd held OFT authorisation at the time. 
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, OFT authorisation records are no longer 
available. But in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think it was more likely than not 
that C held the necessary authorisation at the time Mr and Mrs L entered into the loan 
agreement.  
The claim under S75
The CMC allege the supplier misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreement and 
benefits to Mr and Mrs L when they bought it, which could bring cause for a claim under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Mr and Mrs L had to make a claim within six 
years of when they entered into the purchase contract and credit agreement  which the 
CMC confirm was in September 2003. Thats because this is when they say they lost out 
having relied upon the alleged false statements of fact.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the CMC to Elderbridge in 
October 2020. But as this is around 17 years after Mr and Mrs L first say they lost out; I 
believe it is likely to fall outside of the time limit set by the LA. So, I cant fairly say that 
Elderbridges response ultimately appears unreasonable here.
The claim under S140A
Section 140A is concerned with the (alleged) unfairness of the relationship, not the 
agreement. And because the debtor/creditor relationship continues up to the point the 
agreement ends (here, thats the loan), any limitation to make a claim doesnt correspond 
with the date of that agreement, rather when that agreement ends. Its important to 
recognise that only a court is able to make that determination. But as its relevant law, Ive 
considered this when deciding what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
A claim under S140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also governed by 
Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is also six years. The 
CMC said Mr and Mrs Ls finance agreement ended in July 2017, which is when the 
relationship ended. Therefore, I dont think the time restriction under the LA would apply here 
as the claim under S140A was raised within six-years of when the relationship ended.
However, on the basis of what Ive seen, I dont think there appears to be any grounds on 
which I think I could properly conclude that it was likely a court might decide an unfair 
relationship existed in this case. I will address the main reasons presented by the CMC 
separately below.Taking payment within the cooling off period
The CMC have provided copies of documentation from the time of the product sale and loan 
agreement. The Acquisition Agreement is dated 17 September 2003 as is the Members 
Declaration. Ive also been provided with a document entitled Payout Signoff Sheet which 
clearly shows a pay-out date of 3 October 2003  16 days after the date of the Acquisition 
Agreement. A statement for Mr and Mrs Ls loan shows that it was first drawn on 3 October 
2003. 
Have considered the Timeshare Regulations that applied at the time, Im satisfied that no 
payment was made to or received by C before expiry of any regulatory cooling off period. 
Failure to provide Key Information 
Ive considered the Acquisition Agreement in detail. Note 5. States, THE APPLICANT 
acknowledges receipt of the disclosure document, a copy of which is attached to and is 
hereby incorporated in the terms of this Agreement. This appears to have been signed by 
Mr and Mrs L.
Note A. on the Acquisition Agreement Terms and Conditions document states, The 
Applicant hereby agrees to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the 
Company, a copy of which has been given to the Applicant.
Point 11. Of The Members Declaration says, We have received a copy of our Agreement 
and a copy of the finance application form (if applicable) together with the notices required 
under section 2 of the Timeshare Act 1992 (as amended) and a Disclosure Statement. This 
document also appears to have been signed by Mr and Mrs L. 
Unfortunately, I havent been provided with any other documentation from the time of the 
sale which might include, but not be limited to, the Standard Information Document, as and if 
required under the prevailing regulations. And given the passage of time, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to expect Elderbridge (or C) to be in a position to provide copies of 
those documents.
Ive considered the Supreme Court decision in Plevin which makes clear, it doesnt 
automatically follow that regulatory breaches create unfairness for the purposes of S140A. 
Such breaches and their consequences (if there are any) must be looked at in the round, 
rather than in a narrow or technical way. As S140A (2) says, courts shall have regard to all 
matters it thinks relevant, it is wide enough to include the consumers ongoing exposure and 
how a supplier has enforced any terms that are or might be unfair.
So, its possible C didnt give Mr and Mrs L the required information in the prescribed format 
and in good time. But even if that was the case, and I cant reasonably conclude it was, as 
existing holders of a trial membership with C, I think that experience together with the 
information that was provided was likely to have given them enough insight into the terms of 
the product they were purchasing. So, if there were any documentary omissions, from a 
regulatory standpoint, I find it unlikely that they led to any unfairness in the relationship 
between Mr and Mrs L and C for the purposes of S140A. Failure to position a meeting as a sales event
As Ive already stated, Mr and Mrs L already held a trial membership with C prior to 
purchasing the product which is the subject of their complaint. And theres no suggestion or 
evidence that they had cause for concern or complaint about that pre-existing membership. 
Because of that, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr and Mrs L had existing 
experience and knowledge of meetings with representatives of C. So, Im not persuaded that 
an invitation to a meeting by C, as described by the CMC, wouldnt have reasonably put Mr 
and Mrs L on notice that this might involve some form of sales discussion or presentation. 
Further, Ive not seen anything that suggests attendance of such a meeting was compulsory 
or even that Mr and Mrs L couldnt otherwise choose to end such discussions, should they 
wish.
Rights of withdrawal
I havent been provided with any evidence to support whether Mr and Mrs L were or were 
not informed about their right to withdraw from the timeshare purchase agreement or the 
associated loan agreement. Ordinarily, I would expect a 14-day cooling off period in each 
case. However, Im mindful that not all documentation from the time of the sale appears 
available. And given the passage of time  the agreements were completed more than 19 
years ago - I wouldnt reasonably expect those documents to be readily available, if at all. 
So, Ive considered whether there may have been a scenario, from the evidence available, 
where Mr and Mrs L might have demonstrated a desire to exercise their withdrawal rights 
here. 
The CMC said that Mr and Mrs L subsequently found that resorts theyd been shown as part 
of the sales presentation were unobtainable. But as their membership only became effective 
in 2004, its unlikely any concerns would have arisen until well after any cooling off period. 
Theyve also confirmed that Mr and Mrs L did use their points over time and didnt relinquish 
the timeshare points until around 2016. But I havent seen any clear evidence to suggest 
theyd expressed any desire or cause to withdraw from the agreements during the normally 
accepted cooling of period. 
So, even if withdrawal rights werent explained, given theres no clear evidence of an 
intention to withdraw, I cant reasonably say that Mr and Mrs L were disadvantaged here. 
And as Ive previously explained, Im not persuaded that even if there had been a regulatory 
breach, it was likely to result in the relationship being adjudged unfair under S140A.
Maintenance Fees
Note E. of that document says, The Applicant hereby agreesto pay the Membership Fee 
and the Individual Management ChargeIndividual Management Charges are thereafter 
due on demand each year in accordance with the Articles.
Note F. includes, The Applicant is responsible for the management charges and all costs 
and payments in respect of those Use Rights.
Note 2. of the Members Declaration, signed by Mr and Mrs L, says, We understand that we 
are responsible for all costs and all management charges. And note 6. says, We 
understand that the annual membership Fee is £99 for 2003. In addition the annual 
Individual Management Charge is GBP 0.33 per Point purchased/converted for 2003 and 
that an invoice will be sent for these within 3 months of full payment of the Agreement and 
thereafter by 1st January each year. The basis of these dues is set out in the Memorandum 
and Articles of Association together with the Scheme Rules and Regulations of the 
Company.
As Ive already explained, not all documentation from the time of the sale has been provided 
or appears to be available. But based upon what Ive seen, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Mr and Mrs L werent adequately or clearly told what maintenance fees would fall due or how they would be calculated. Or that the basis of that calculation was likely to lead a court to 
decide that an unfair relationship existed under S140A.
Commission paid to C
Ive considered what the CMC says about the commission that might have been paid to the 
timeshare supplier for arranging the loan in question. A document entitled Payout Signoff 
Sheet has a section at the bottom entitled Commission Due where a breakdown of 
amounts is provided. 
Its unclear whether this information was provided to Mr and Mrs L at the time of the sale. 
But I havent seen anything to suggest any duty wouldve been breached by making the 
payments. Nor have I seen anything to suggest the original lender was under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. 
From what Ive seen across the timeshare industry, the commission paid wasnt at a level 
that might be considered to be unreasonable or unfair. So, for that reason, and in the 
absence of evidence to the contrary, I think its unlikely that the levels of commission paid 
here were high enough to put Elderbridge (or the original lender) on notice that not 
disclosing it to Mr and Mrs L risked making their debtor-creditor relationship unfair under 
Section 140a.
Summary
I am particularly mindful here that this product sale and loan agreement dates back almost 
20 years. And I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs L expressed concern or cause to 
complain or make a claim until more recently. It may well be that their understanding of what 
they were sold may differ from what the relevant paperwork suggests they were sold. But, 
based on everything thats been said and/or provided so far, while I certainly dont doubt the 
honesty of their recollections, Im not persuaded that a court is likely to find that an unfair 
relationship existed under S140A of the CCA. And I think any claim for misrepresentation is 
likely to have been made too late under the LA.
Ultimately, only a court can decide Mr and Mrs Ls claim. I can only decide whether 
Elderbridges response was fair and reasonable, given everything Ive seen. And having 
considered everything, I think it was.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman