DRN-3244721
Complaint
Mr M has complained about HSBC UK Bank Plcs (HSBC) failure to send him notifications 
when he exceeded his overdraft limit. Hes said that the failure to send these notifications led 
to him missing payments to his creditors.
Background
Mr Ms complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that HSBC had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision and this isnt something for me to get involved with.
Nonetheless Ive considered what Mr M has said about HSBCs failure to send him 
notifications that hed exceeded his overdraft limit. The first thing for me to say is that the 
period Mr M received a refund for  January 2020 to June 2020  was when it was 
mandatory for a bank to send text message alerts regarding overdraft usage to customers. 
Prior to this while some banks did send text messages where mobile phone numbers were 
available, it wasnt a mandatory requirement to send them. So this means that Mr M isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund of the charges for other periods.
That said, Ive seen that Mr M has said that he had missed payments because of the failure 
to send him notifications. But Mr Ms missed repayments were because he had insufficient 
funds in his account to cover them  not because he was over his overdraft limit. So I dont 
think that sending notifications would have made a difference here as I dont see how these 
notifications, which were designed to allow a customer to bring their account back within 
their limit, would have led to these payments being made. In these circumstances, at best   
Mr M would simply have gone back into an unarranged overdraft. 
As Mr M has complained about the addition of fees and while Im not looking at HSBCs 
charging structure per se, Ive nonetheless considered whether it applied the interest fees, 
and charges unfairly. Its worth noting that HSBC wont have acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr M if it applied the interest, fees and charges his account in circumstances where 
it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr M was experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
Ive therefore considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr M fairly 
and reasonably. But having looked through Mr Ms statements throughout the period 
concerned, I cant see that HSBC ought to have been aware that Mr M might have been 
struggling. Its fair to say that Mr M did use his overdraft and he did exceed his limit on 
occasion. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr Ms 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions and transfers account going from the account. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr M, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I 
dont think that HSBC charged Mr M unfairly. As this is the case and bearing in mind what 
Ive already said about HSBCs failure to send overlimit notifications, I dont think that HSBC 
needs to refund any interest, fees and charges, or make any amendments to his credit file. It 
therefore follows that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman