DRN-2838059
The complaint
Mr B complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk lent 
to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B was given loans by MoneyBoat as follows: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Loan term Amount Highest 
instalment 
amount Number of 
instalments 
1 19/06/2018 27/06/2018 37 days £200.00 £115.79 2
2 27/06/2018 24/12/2018 180 days £800.00 £248.72 6
3 27/12/2018 25/04/2019 119 days £500.00 £199.54 4
4 29/07/2019 not repaid 123 days £400.00 £158.10 4
Mr B mainly said (Im briefly summarising here) that if MoneyBoat had done proper 
checks it shouldve known that all these loans were unaffordable as hed only recently 
been discharged from bankruptcy and he was borrowing money in order to pay other 
payday loans.
He also felt that MoneyBoats interest rates on the loans was excessive and unfair and 
that MoneyBoat had made things worse by failing to respond when he accepted a 
goodwill offer it made to settle his complaint.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He came to the view that 
MoneyBoat hadnt done anything wrong and he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Its my provisional view that MoneyBoat shouldve seen from its credit checks that it 
wasnt reasonable to conclude that Mr B was likely to be able to sustainably repay 
loan 1, or any further loans. So this shouldve prompted MoneyBoat to decline Mr Bs 
loan applications. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether MoneyBoat did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr B.
Did MoneyBoat complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr B would be able to repay borrowing in a sustainable way? If so, did it 
make fair lending decisions? 
When Mr B applied for loan 1, MoneyBoat asked Mr B for details of his income and 
checked this using an online income verification tool. It asked Mr B about his monthly 
expenditure and carried out a credit check to gain an understanding of his financial 
situation. 
I have reviewed the information MoneyBoat gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. It 
noted Mr Bs income was £1,800 monthly (and its own checks suggested this was a 
dependable figure to rely on). After looking at the credit report information it gathered, 
MoneyBoat increased the amount Mr B had said he was spending each month and allowed 
for an expenditure figure of around £800  which I think was a potentially reasonable overall 
figure bearing in mind Mr B said he lived with his parents. This included an amount that Mr B 
told MoneyBoat he spent on other credit. MoneyBoat said that even with this adjustment, the 
contractual loan repayment for this loan would have still been affordable as it worked out that 
Mr B shouldve had around £1,000 left to spend.
But MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably make his loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments looked affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. 
MoneyBoat has sent me the credit report it obtained when Mr B applied for loan 1. The 
information gathered by MoneyBoat showed that Mr B had 13 active credit accounts  and 
that these were mostly either in default and/or already with a debt collection agency. His 
total credit balance outstanding was more than £11,000.
I've taken into account that MoneyBoat said that it didnt see anything that indicated Mr Bs 
recent bankrupt status  and it looks like he had a different address, so I can see why that 
information wasnt apparent on MoneyBoats credit checks. Indeed, its credit check clearly 
noted no bankruptcy order within the last 36 months. And I think its fair to say that Mr B 
appears not to have declared this information. But, bearing in mind what MoneyBoats credit checks did show, I dont think MoneyBoat 
could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr B wouldnt put him in a 
worse position by increasing his overall debt  at a time when the indications were that he 
had serious money management problems and he was already struggling to manage his 
existing debt. So for these reasons, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint irresponsible lending 
complaint.  
I've taken into account that MoneyBoat said it wouldve declined his loan application if it 
had been concerned about the loan causing any detriment to Mr B  and I can see that it 
didnt approve all of his loan applications. But this doesnt mean that these loans were 
fairly provided. For the reasons I've explained, I think MoneyBoat shouldve realised that 
there were clear signs suggesting that Mr B had a serious debt problem when he applied 
for loan 1  and that this loan, and the loans that followed, werent sustainably affordable 
for him and shouldnt have been provided by a responsible lender. 
Did MoneyBoat act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Mr B has lost out because MoneyBoat 
acted unfairly towards him in any other way. I think there was a very large amount of interest 
payable on these loans as Mr B says. But the loan documents set out the terms and the 
amount of interest payable. Mr B had to actively engage in the loan application process each 
time and I think its likely that he was aware of the loan terms and the total amounts of 
interest payable which was clearly set out on the loan agreements he signed. 
And as Im planning on upholding his complaint about all these loans, Mr B will benefit as a 
result of MoneyBoat not settling the complaint in line with its proposed goodwill offer. 
So I havent seen enough to make me think it would be fair to award any additional redress.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr B confirmed that he is happy with what I've said in my provisional decision and he has no 
further evidence to add. 
MoneyBoat disagreed with what I've said about upholding this complaint. It mainly said it did 
proportionate checks (especially given the infancy of the lending relationship) and that whilst 
we might say it should've looked at all the information it had, it was impractical for it to review 
every line of a credit file for every loan, let alone go back and review previous credit reports. 
It said it hadnt found anywhere in regulatory guidance that suggested it was obliged to do 
this. MoneyBoat told us that the early stages of lending were automated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Ive thought carefully about everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. MoneyBoat hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think 
about this case. I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision, given that the information MoneyBoat could see on its credit 
checks showed that more lending was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Mr B. 
I dont think I need to comment further on the proportionality of the checks that MoneyBoat 
carried out because the checks it did do revealed information that showed the loans werent 
likely to be sustainably affordable. 
I appreciate that MoneyBoat takes a different view to me. But I hope that setting things out 
as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest and charges on 
loans that shouldnt have been provided to him.
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the following: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr B having made overpayments then these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay this. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be 
paid to Mr B. However if there is still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should 
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B  bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he needs further time to pay.
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Bs credit file for these loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. 
MoneyBoat must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk to take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman