DRN-4198823
The complaint
Miss J complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
with MI Vehicle Finance Limited (MI).
What happened
In January 2022 Miss J acquired a used car costing £9,890. Having paid the supplying 
dealership a deposit of £300 Miss J financed the balance of £9,590 by way of a hire 
purchase agreement with MI.
In April 2022 Miss J complained to the supplying dealership about two issues with the car, a 
broken rear windscreen wiper and a message on the dashboard which said: Cruise Control 
Failure Have the problem checked by your Service Partner.
The issue with the rear windscreen wiper was identified and repaired to Miss Js satisfaction. 
However, the dealership (and two further garages) couldnt find any fault with the cruise 
control.
In August 2022 Miss J complained to our service about the undiagnosed and unrepaired 
issue with the cruise control and said she wanted to reject the car.
This complaint was considered by one of my fellow ombudsman who, in March 2023, found 
he couldnt reasonably conclude (based on everything he had seen) that there was a fault 
with the cruise control. However, he went on to say that if Miss J was able to obtain a report 
confirming that there was a fault with the cruise control he would expect MI to review matters 
afresh.
Later in March 2023 Miss J obtained (at a cost of £84) a report from a garage that I will call 
B that concluded that there was a fault with the cruise control and the the steering wheel 
buttons needed replacing and a recheck undertaken.
Miss J shared Bs report with MI and reiterated that she wanted to reject the car.
In April 2023 MI issued Miss J a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL MI 
said it wasnt accepting, nor was it required to accept, rejection of the car but it would:
pay Miss J £84 for the report she had obtained
arrange for the necessary repairs to the steering wheel buttons to be undertaken at 
no cost to Miss J
on completion of the repair pay Miss J £150 for any inconvenience caused
Unhappy with MIs offer Miss J complained to our service reiterating that she wanted to 
reject the car and should be able to do so.
Miss Js complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Miss J shouldnt be able to reject the car and MIs offer (as detailed above) was both fair and 
reasonable. However, she added that as well as undertaking the required repair MI should 
also ensure that post repair a recheck of the car is undertaken.
Miss J didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide in this case is whether the car supplied to Miss J was of satisfactory 
quality. If I dont think it was, Ill need to think whats fair, if anything, to put things right. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated one. So, our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to it. MI is the supplier of the car under this type of agreement and so is 
responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers hire purchase agreements. Under a hire 
purchase agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality.
Miss J acquired a car that was used  so there would be different expectations compared to 
a new car. Having said that, the cars condition at the point of supply, should have met the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account its age, 
mileage and price. The CRA says the aspects of the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition alongside other things such as their fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
In this case Miss J reported the cruise control failure message appearing on her dashboard 
in April 2022, two months or so after taking delivery of the car. And this, the fact that Miss J 
has now been able to provide MI (and our service) with a report from B confirming and 
diagnosing a fault with the cruise control and given the cars age, mileage and price in 
January 2022 I think its entirely reasonable to conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. 
Having concluded the above what I now need to decide is what MI needs to do, If anything, 
to fairly and reasonably compensate Miss J.
Section 19(3) of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that 
are deemed to be not of satisfactory quality.
(a) the short-term right to reject (sections 20 and 22);
(b) the right to repair or replacement (section 23); and
(c) the right to a price reduction or the final right to reject (sections 20 and 24).
Given when Miss J first complained about the cruise control failure message appearing on 
her dashboard Im satisfied she has no short-term right to reject. To have a short-term right 
to reject a consumer must state their wish to reject and do so within 30 days beginning with 
the date possession of the goods have passed to them from the supplier.Once a consumers short-term right to reject has passed, a business has one opportunity to 
repair an identified fault that makes a car of unsatisfactory quality. Now I appreciate Miss Js 
frustration, but like the investigator Im satisfied that MI hasnt had an opportunity to carry out 
a repair and it did nothing wrong in refusing to carry out a repair before it did, this being 
shortly after Miss J provided Bs report confirming and diagnosing there was a fault with the 
cruise control.
Given what I say above, what has now been confirmed and diagnosed and the likely cost of 
repair I can confirm that like the investigator Im satisfied that MIs offer to arrange a repair 
(at no cost to Miss J), refund Miss J the cost of Bs report and £150 for inconvenience is both 
fair and reasonable.
However, I would add that if any repair arranged by MI proves to be unsuccessful, then 
Miss J might be entitled to a final right to reject, but this is something I make no finding on in 
this decision, nor do I need to.
In support of what Miss J says is her right to be able to reject the car, she has made 
reference to section 102 and 175 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and section 10.4 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 2015 [sic].
Notwithstanding that in my view this could and should have formed part of Miss Js previous 
complaint to our service and is something that I shouldnt (strictly speaking) make a finding 
on in this decision, and for the avoidance of doubt I make no finding on it in this decision, in 
my view the above legislation doesnt assist Miss J in this complaint. I say this because even 
if I was, by way of example, to find that the original supplying dealership had an obligation to 
inform MI that Miss J (in April 2022) had advised it that she wanted to reject the car, or that 
notifying the original supplying dealership of her desire to reject the car (in April 2022) should 
be treated as a notification served by her on MI doesnt, in itself, place MI under an 
obligation to accept rejection. 
Furthermore, even had MI been aware of Miss Js desire to reject the car sooner than it was, 
Im not persuaded the position Miss J now finds herself in would have been any different. Put 
another way, although MIs delay in being notified of Miss Js desire to reject the car might 
have caused her some inconvenience, Im satisfied  on the balance of probabilities  that 
the position Miss J would have found herself in had MI been aware of her desire to reject the 
car sooner would have still been one where she wanted to reject the car and MI was only 
prepared, on a diagnosis being made, to undertake a repair.
I dont underestimate Miss Js strength of feeling in this matter. But I would reiterate that Im  
satisfied that MIs offer is both fair and reasonable, particularly given that my review of 
matters is restricted to what MI has done, or has failed to do, since my fellow ombudsmans 
decision dated March 2023 and since Miss J provided it with a report from B.
Putting things right
MI must:
pay Miss J, if it hasnt done so already, £84 for the report she obtained from B 
arrange for the necessary repairs to the steering wheel buttons to be undertaken at 
no cost to Miss J
ensure that post repair the car is subject to a recheck
pay Miss J £150 for any inconvenience caused within 28 days of this decision being 
accepted by Miss J (if accepted by her) rather than doing so post repairMy final decision
My final decision is MI Vehicle Finance Limited must compensate Miss J in line with what I 
say above under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman