DRN-4379365
The complaint
Mr R complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) handling of his 
home insurance claim.
RSA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As RSA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In late 2019, Mr R contacted RSA about damage to his property caused by leaks in the 
mains water supply outside his home. RSA told him he would need to get a cause of 
damage report for it to consider his claim. Mr Rs claim was re-opened in early 2021 after he 
provided further information. 
Mr R later brought a complaint to our service about RSAs handling of his claim. His 
complaint was resolved in July 2021, after RSA agreed to carry out certain repairs to his 
property. 
In late 2022, Mr R raised a complaint with RSA because repairs hadnt been completed. He 
didnt receive a response from RSA, so he asked our service to consider his concerns.
Our investigator thought Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think RSA was 
responsible for delays from July 2021 to February 2022 because Mr R had been trying to 
find the correct floor replacement and had been unwell. She acknowledged some further 
complications involved in getting the start date for works after that. She thought that RSA 
was responsible for some avoidable delays in moving things forward from September 2022 
until September 2023. So, she recommended RSA pay Mr R £500 compensation, as well as 
complete the works needed to settle the claim.
Mr R didnt think the £500 our investigator recommended was enough to compensate him for 
what hed been through over the last two years. He said the garden had become overgrown 
while he hadnt been living in the property and the guttering was leaking. RSA had told him 
he needs to pay for works to his garden, which he didnt feel he was responsible for. He was 
unsure whether he should allow RSA to go ahead with repairs. 
Mr R also made some comments about the service hed received from RSA, including a 
delay in paying for alternative accommodation and it not giving him a breakdown of 
payments it had sent to him.  
As Mr R disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered everything Mr R has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what I 
believe to be the crux of his complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service.
I understand that Mr Rs claim has been ongoing for quite some time and its likely to remain 
open for several more months. Mr R has made us aware of some other concerns since our 
investigator issued her outcome to this complaint. 
I thought it would be helpful to provide some clarity about the Financial Ombudsman 
Services role and the scope of the complaint that Im deciding. Our role is to resolve 
disputes between complainants and financial businesses, to help both parties move on. It 
isnt our role to handle a claim or to deal with matters as they arise.
In this decision, I will only be considering matters Mr R has raised with RSA that occurred 
after the resolution of his previous complaint (in July 2021) up to 5 September 2023 - which 
is when RSA advised us of its position regarding his complaint.
I can see that RSA arranged for a surveyor to attend Mr Rs property to look at some 
cracking to the front in order to establish if it related to his claim. This visit took place in July 
2021.
Following this, there appear to have been some difficulties with sourcing flooring. According 
to RSAs notes, the builder was awaiting Mr Rs choice of flooring and he was struggling to 
find one that was suitable. RSA looked into the possibility of salvaging some of the floor and 
Mr R experienced some health issues during this time. 
After the flooring was chosen, there were some concerns about the possibility of asbestos in 
the bitumen layer beneath the existing parquet floor. After this was tested, RSAs contractor 
was given the go ahead to proceed with the repairs. 
The repairs were scheduled to begin in September 2022. Mr R and his family moved into 
alternative accommodation and items were placed into storage. However, a couple of weeks 
later RSAs contractor raised concerns about damp. RSA instructed a drying company to 
carry out salt tests to determine if there was rising damp in the property. 
The drying company found evidence of nitrates in some of the property walls but felt this was 
claim-related. It said it believed the damage was a result of the mains water pipe saturating 
the external walls for a long period of time, allowing the moisture to bridge above the damp 
proof course. 
RSA instructed a surveyor to attend Mr Rs property. This visit took place in December 2022. 
RSA has provided us with a copy of the report it says was also shared with Mr R. 
The surveyor concluded that elevated salt levels in the brickwork were influencing moisture 
meter readings, resulting in false damp readings. The report says gravimetric analysis 
confirmed brickwork to be dry in areas where high moisture meter readings were obtained.
The report refers to evidence of repairs to address historic damp issues. It says the failed 
water main at the front of the property could have exacerbated inherent damp problems, but it didnt believe it would have had a significant effect on the kitchen extension to the rear of 
the property.
The surveyor made some suggestions on addressing issues of rising damp but went on to 
say:
It is unlikely that all the damp problems can be resolved in a property such as this. 
Improvements can be made, but some issues will need to be managed.
In our opinion a normal state of equilibrium has been reached for this property
It said it assumed the drying company would be happy to issue their drying certificate.
Mr R says there werent any issues of damp in his house, prior to the event his claim relates 
to. He says RSA wouldnt agree to carry out the repairs unless he signed a waiver meaning 
that hed be responsible if there were issues with the repairs due to the damp. Hes also 
expressed concerns that he might have difficulty selling the property in the future if the damp 
issue isnt addressed.
RSA says an impasse was reached because Mr R wouldnt agree for the works to proceed. 
It told us that the loss adjuster met with Mr R to discuss the issues in early August 2023, but 
Mr R still wasnt willing to allow the works to proceed. It said Mr R still considered there were 
issues and the property remained wet. 
RSA told us Mr Rs property undoubtedly had pre-existing damp issues and it was trying to 
work with him to allay his fears and get his buy-in to the work proposed. It said it had 
arranged for a building surveyor to attend the site to:
Undertake a full assessment of the condition of the house.
To check the services fully to identify if there were any issues with the plumbing.
To draw up a schedule of works.
To obtain prices; and
Oversee the works through to completion.
I understand, from what Mr R has told us, that the surveyors visit took place in September 
2023, and a new schedule of works has been drawn up.
I appreciate Mr R believes that any damp in the property was due to the escape of water 
incident hes claiming for. However, the report from RSAs surveyors (dated December 
2022) suggested there were also historical damp issues that didnt relate to the claim. 
I acknowledge that the drying company believed that the salts in the walls were claim-
related. But the surveyor who visited in December 2022 carried out a more in depth survey. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to have concluded that there was a pre-
existing damp issue, aside from the claim-related damage.
I think RSAs communication with Mr R could have been better and it could have done more 
to progress the claim faster. However, RSA has continued to cover the cost of alternative 
accommodation whilst this matter was in dispute. And I think the instruction of another 
building surveyor was a reasonable step forward.
I appreciate this has been a difficult time for Mr R and his family who have been living away 
from their home for over a year. However, RSA has indicated that its willing to pay Mr R the £500 compensation our investigator recommended. And I think this fairly recognises the 
distress and inconvenience Mr R has experienced as a result of RSAs poor service.
Putting things right
RSA should:
Complete the works required to settle Mr Rs claim.
Pay Mr R £500 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman