DRN-3174248
The complaint
Ms M complains that AXA Assistance (UK) Limited gave her poor service under a roadside 
breakdown insurance policy.
Where I refer to AXA, I include agents and others insofar as I hold AXA responsible for their 
acts or omissions.
What happened
Ms M had breakdown insurance under which AXA was responsible for dealing with claims.
On the evening of 27 August 2020, Ms M was on a motorway when her vehicle got a 
puncture in one of its tyres. On her behalf, the highways agency called AXA for help at 
around 23:00. AXA arrived around 00:30 . But it couldnt change the wheel, saying that the 
locking nuts were too tight. So Ms M started a wait for a recovery vehicle.
At around 04:30 AXA came back and changed the wheel. Ms M complained about the length 
of time she had to wait on the hard shoulder.
By a final response dated May 2021, AXA apologised and awarded £100.00 compensation 
for the delays.
Ms M brought her complaint to us in late May 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
AXA had acted fairly and reasonably. She said that its apology and payment of £100.00 
adequately addressed the impact their actions had. 
Ms M disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
10 months previously, the wheel had been removed and put back without being over-
tightened.
Even with her location and the time of night, the call centre didn't treat her breakdown 
as a priority.
She just needed a wheel change. AXA shouldve done more sooner.
The first mechanic came within 90 minutes. He said a recovery truck would come.
She was stuck on the other side of the barrier for hours; she couldn't get a drink or 
food or use the loo.
The second mechanic took 4 hours to arrive  after the highways agency said it was 
going to do a statutory recovery. 
The second mechanic was in a second car, not a recovery truck.
The second mechanic changed the wheel in 10 minutes  as the first mechanic 
shouldve done.
As a result of the delay on 27 and 28 August 2020, she was late for an interview. The 
client wasnt happy about that and she missed out on work that wouldve been 
£12.00 per hour and between 12 to 15 hours per week.
Her passenger suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder. After not having night 
terrors for 3 or 4 months, they returned after the breakdown.
£100.00 isnt enough compensation to reflect the impact on her and her passenger. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). Where a consumers complaint is about service under a 
breakdown insurance policy, we can direct compensation  but only for the person with the 
benefit of the policy, not a passenger.
The policy terms included the following:

(i) We will arrange and pay for a vehicle rescue operator to attend the scene of the 
incident for up to one hour to try to restore the Insured Vehicles mobility.
(ii) If the Insured Vehicle cannot be made roadworthy at the scene of the incident we 
will arrange and pay for it to be taken, together with the driver and up to eight 
passengers, to a suitable garage, normally within 15 miles, to be repaired at your 
cost.
(iii) If the Insured Vehicle cannot be repaired the same day at a suitable garage we 
will arrange and pay for:
(a) the Insured Vehicle, together with the driver and up to eight passengers, to be 
taken to Your Home or the intended destination and, at your request, the Insured 
Vehicle will be taken to a garage of your choice within 15 miles of Your Home or the 
intended destination during one complete journey where possible, for it to be repaired 
at your cost, or
(b) one nights hotel accommodation (bed and breakfast only) for the driver and up to 
eight passengers. We will not pay more than £80 per person for hotel 
accommodation up to a maximum of £500, or
(c) a hire vehicle of up to 1100cc for a period not exceeding 24 hours
27 August 2020 was a Thursday. From what shes said, Ms M was heading home. Ms M 
suffered a puncture on a motorway late in the evening. Thats always a bad experience. I 
find it likely that her priority was to get home as soon as possible.
I can understand that Ms M believes that AXA shouldve done at midnight what it later did at 
04:30. But AXA gave an explanation about over-tightening of the wheel nuts. And I havent 
seen enough evidence to say that the first visit fell below a reasonable standard of service 
although the second visit was better.AXA accepts that there was delay beyond its expected response time.
From what shes said, Ms M tried to get to the interview the next day. So I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to hold AXA responsible for her being late or for her loss of opportunity of 
work.
I can understand that Ms M might feel that AXA got off lightly by not paying for transport to 
another location or overnight accommodation. But Ive thought about the impact on Ms M of 
the delay she suffered.
I dont under-estimate her discomfort and feeling that AXA had abandoned her. And I dont 
doubt that she was concerned for her passenger.
However, Ive weighed up the extent to which AXA was responsible for making Ms Ms bad 
experience worse. And overall I find that its apology and payment of £100.00 is fair and 
reasonable and in line with what I wouldve directed. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct AXA to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AXA Assistance (UK) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman