DRN-3102120
The complaint
Mr S has complained to Portal Financial Services LLP (Portafina) that he was given 
unsuitable advice to transfer his personal pension to a capped income drawdown plan where 
his funds were invested in high-risk funds.
 
What happened
An unregulated introducer contacted Mr S by telephone and subsequently passed his details 
to Portafina who also contacted him by phone. Mr S then gave Portal his permissions to 
obtain information about his existing pension with S. 
S provided Portafina with details of Mr Ss personal pension plan. This information showed a 
transfer value of £45,849.03. The annual management charge (AMC) was 1%. There were 
no other charges and Mr S was invested in the managed fund.
Portafina completed a fact find with Mr S over the telephone and noted the following:
He was 59, divorced with no dependents
He owned his own home, worth £350,000, as well as a second home which his ex-
wife lived in
He was employed with an annual income of £20,000
He had no other assets or investments
His attitude to risk (ATR) was classed as balanced.
It was noted that Mr S wanted to take 25% of his pension fund as tax-fee cash (TFC) in 
order to buy a car and make improvements to his home. 
Portafina recommended Mr S switch his pension into a Novia self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) in order to access the TFC, with the remainder to be invested across nine funds in a 
mix of equities, fixed interest securities and secured property bonds. Nearly 50% of the 
portfolio was recommended to be invested in secured bonds (illiquid) which invested in 
property developments in the UK, USA and Brazil. These investments would provide income 
by way interest paid annually or monthly into the SIPP. The intended term times for maturity 
of these investments were between 5 and 10 years. When the investments completed the 
allocation had changed and only three of these bonds were selected. This included 
Lakeview UK Investments PLC, Real Estate Investments USA PLC and Strategic 
Residential Developments PLC. £6,000 of Mr Ss pension was invested equally in these 
funds. 
The pension with S was transferred to the Novia SIPP with a value of £47,732.40 and 
£11,923.12 was taken as TFC. £35,769.37 was invested in the SIPP.
Mr S realised that significant charges were being taken from the SIPP and the investments 
werent suitable. A complaint was raised on Mr Ss behalf that the funds invested in were too 
high risk and unsuitable for him.
Portafina believed the recommendation was suitable for him, so Mr S approached this 
service to review his complaint.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and found that the recommendation to 
transfer from S to the Novia SIPP was appropriate, as it wouldnt have been possible for Mr 
S to access his funds and still remain with his original provider. However, the investigator 
didnt think the funds which had been recommended were suitable. In summary, the reasons 
for the investigator reaching this conclusion were:
Mr Ss recorded details and his answers to the investment risk questions confirm his 
investment experience was limited. It also shows that he was cautious about 
investing in assets that might place his funds at significant investment risk. Mr S 
selected that he preferred alternative investments that would be considered less 
volatile, at the risk of reduced liquidity. He wasnt persuaded he had the necessary 
level of understanding to be able to differentiate between the concept of volatility 
and liquidity
Having described Mr S as a balanced investor, Portafina recommended investing 
half of the pension in unregulated bonds which are relatively high risk and illiquid. 
The industry regulator regards these types of funds as likely to exhibit high degrees 
of volatility, illiquidity and often both. In the investigators view, this renders them 
unsuitable as major elements of any investment portfolio. When considering 
unregulated investments, the regulators good and poor practice report of 2010 
sighted an example of good practice. This was the practice of restricting such 
unregulated investments to between 3% and 5% of a portfolio with ongoing 
monitoring. Portafina was aware a significant amount of Mr Ss pension fund would 
be invested into the secured bonds.
Although the funds are not Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS), 
these unregulated investments have similar characteristics to UCIS i.e. illiquid, high 
risk, not suitable for retail clients etc. These types of investment by their very nature 
have multiple significant risk factors associated with them. There can be a lack of 
regulation, longevity, potential insolvency, offshore and currency exchange, liquidity 
issues and other factors which could prevent investors from accessing their funds 
and the fact that the funds are mostly dependent on specific market areas. Really 
they are higher risk investments. And as such the same approach should be taken in 
line with the guidance on UCIS.
The portfolio wasnt balanced and Mr S didnt have capacity for loss in the 
circumstances. The investigator appreciated Mr S wasnt intending to take income 
immediately but placing a significant share of his portfolio for a fixed period of 5 to 7 
years in unregulated bonds was unsuitable given the risky nature of the investments. 
It is was possible that Mr S may have required immediate income if his 
circumstances changed. He wasnt an experienced investor and it was highly unlikely 
that hed have understood the exact risks associated by investing in high risk illiquid 
unregulated bonds. Although the current status of SIPP is that only 10% of the 
portfolio is invested in the unregulated investments namely Lakeview UK (4.72%), 
Real Estate Invest (4.72) and Strategic Residential Development (0.65%)  the initial 
investment was unsuitable.
Portafina has argued it had explained the risks of non-mainstream investments and 
that illiquidity was discussed along with extensive risk warnings which were included 
in its report. However, stating risks or giving warnings doesnt make unsuitable 
advice suitable.In the investigators view, Mr S was able to take some investment risk, but the portfolio was 
a significant departure from the concept of a balanced portfolio.
The investigator set out redress and provided instructions for what Portafina needed to do to 
put things right. This was based on a benchmark using the FTSE Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index.
Both Mr S and Portafina accepted the investigators findings, so our of file was closed on the 
basis that Portafina would settle the matter in line with the investigators findings.
However, Portafina has now requested that the complaint is considered by an ombudsman, 
as it no longer agrees with the redress methodology proposed by the investigator. It thought 
the comparator should include some element of fixed rate bonds to offset the benchmark to 
match Mr Ss appetite for risk. As Portafina failed to settle the complaint, Mr S requested that 
the complaint is reopened. So as both parties have requested this, we have agreed to do so 
on this occasion. 
The complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its firstly important to explain that under the Dispute Resolution rules, set out in the
regulators handbook, Portafina has an obligation to settle matters promptly and it has a duty
to comply with any settlement it has agreed to. I refer Portafina to the following rule:
Complying with awards and settlements
DISP 3 3.7.3.7.12R
A respondent must comply promptly with:
any award or direction made by the Ombudsman; and
any settlement which it agrees at an earlier stage of the procedures {my emphasis}
As can be seen from the above rule, once a firm has agreed to a settlement, it must comply
promptly. So its extremely disappointing that Portafina failed to settle the complaint in line
with our investigators findings. This has not only delayed the resolution of this matter for
Mr S but its also not in line with the regulators rules.
Our service would not usually reopen matters where an agreement has been reached by
both parties. But in this case both parties have requested the complaint is reopened, so we
have agreed to do so on this occasion.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for
the same reasons. So Im upholding this complaint on the basis that the investments 
Portafina recommended for Mr S were unsuitable. No further points or arguments were 
received in response to the investigators findings about the suitability of the 
recommendation and Portafina has only queried the way Mr S should be redressed. 
The investigator provided a full explanation of his finding, which I agree with so I see little 
benefit to repeating the reasoning here, when no further arguments have beenreceived to dispute what the investigator has said. Ive only summarised the main reasons 
for reaching this decision, those being:
The property investments Portafina recommended were unsuitable. As a balanced 
risk investor, the inclusion of high risk funds within Mr Ss portfolio wasnt appropriate 
for him. He was 60 years old by the time the investments were made and, based on 
his lack of any other pension provision, it was likely he would need to access the 
funds in the near future and couldnt afford to leave them invested for the long term.
 
A significant proportion of Mr Ss portfolio was invested in what were effectively UCIS 
funds, when it was considered by the regulator that even a high risk investor should 
limit investment in UCIS to between 3% and 5% of the overall portfolio. So for a 
moderate or balanced risk investor, these funds were completely unsuitable. The fact 
the level of investment is now around 10% of Mr Ss portfolio simply reflects the fact 
that one of the funds has collapsed in value and demonstrates the high level of risk 
he was exposed to.
Portafina have argued any redress should be modelled on a comparator using some 
element of fixed rate bonds and not just the FTSE Private Investors Index. I believe the 
methodology set out by the investigator is correct and Portafina should redress Mr S in line 
with this, as was previously agreed.
When we believe a consumer would have invested their funds differently, but we cant say 
exactly how, there are three standard approaches which we can apply to imagine the 
consumer's money was invested with the right amount of risk for them. 
If the consumer wasnt able to take any risk at all with their money, we would use a 
benchmark based on Bank of England average return from fixed rate bonds. This would be 
for cases when the consumer shouldnt have been exposed to any investment risk.
If a consumer was able to take a small amount of risk, we would use a benchmark made up 
of half based on Bank of England average return from fixed rate bonds and the other half 
with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index). This would be for cases when the 
consumer was a low risk, or cautious investor.
Finally, if a consumer was able to accept some risk to their money, e.g. they had a balanced, 
or moderate attitude to risk, we would compare their investment performance with the FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return Index).
We would only include an element of fixed rate bonds in the benchmark if Portafina or the 
investigator had viewed Mr S as being a cautious or low risk investor. This wasnt the case 
here. Portafina assessed Mr S as having a balanced attitude to risk and the investigator 
agreed a balanced risk investment portfolio would have been suitable for him. As such, the 
benchmark he suggested was appropriate to compensate an individual who could expose 
his funds to some level of risk.
Putting things right
Fair compensationMy aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Portafina do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr S' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr S' pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S' pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S' actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Portafina should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Novia SIPP mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of decision 
to date of settlement 
(if compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being 
notified of acceptance)
Actual valueThis means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portafina may require that Mr S provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr S' circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the
amount calculated as set out above. Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of 
its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Kiran Bamrah
Ombudsman