DRN-2440476
Complaint
Mr H says that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) irresponsibly lent to him. He said any 
affordability checks would have shown that he wasnt fit to be lent to.
  
Background
Mr H was provided with an Aqua credit card with an initial credit limit of £250 in August 2017. 
In November 2017, the credit limit was increased to £1,150. The limit was then increased to 
£2,150, in March 2018, and in July 2018 the credit limit was increased to £3,900. In March 
2019, Aqua decided to reduce Mr Hs credit limit back down to £2,000. And in October 2019, 
Aqua provided Mr H with a loan for £7,500. The loan had an APR of 29.9%, total interest of 
£4,653.32, and was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £253.19. 
Mr H subsequently complained to Aqua about the credit card in 2019 and his loan in early 
2020. Aqua didnt uphold either of Mr Hs complaints. In its view it carried out proportionate 
checks before agreeing to advance the credit that it did and these checks showed Mr H 
could afford to repay what he was lent. 
Mr H remained dissatisfied and he referred his complaint to our service. Mr Hs complaint 
was then considered by one of our investigators. He thought that Aqua shouldnt have 
agreed any of the additional credit advanced from the first credit limit increase on the credit 
card, in November 2017, onwards. Aqua disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive considered this while deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that there are three overarching 
questions that I need to consider in order to provisionally decide whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint. These questions are:    
Did Aqua carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each 
lending decision (in other words - when initially providing the card, then each time it 
increased the credit limit and when it provided the loan)?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not 
have shown?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each additional advance in credit, 
was there a point where Aqua ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing  
Mr Hs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did Aqua act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way?
 
Ill consider each of these questions in turn.
Did Aqua carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H would be 
able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each lending decision?
The rules and regulations throughout Aquas lending relationship with Mr H required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Aqua had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this 
meant that Aqua had to ensure that making the payments to the credit wouldnt cause Mr H 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Aqua to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
any repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Aqua did what it needed to before initially agreeing 
to Mr Hs credit card and each time it increased his credit limit. 
For the initial lending decision on the credit card, Aqua says that Mr H passed its affordability 
checks which were based on external credit bureau data and in line with Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) guidelines. It hasnt really provided the detail in relation to what these 
searches showed but it says Mr H was only in arrears on one account and didnt have any 
defaults, which meant that he fell within its lending criteria. For the limit increases, Aqua says 
it reviewed how Mr H was using his card, along with how he was managing his credit 
commitments and made risk-based assessments to ensure it was lending appropriately. In 
its view, these reviews suggested Mr H could afford the additional credit offered.For Mr Hs loan, Aqua said all due diligence was taken and appropriate checks made in line 
with the guidelines set by the FCA. It used data, including an affordability calculator, 
provided by credit reference agencies and also referred to data held by the Office of National 
Statistics for the purposes of validating Mr H's expenditure. In the event that the data 
indicated Mr H had overstated his income, proof of that income would be requested. But the 
data it received in this case indicated that Mr Hs income exceeded his monthly living 
expenses. And it was satisfied that the information provided met its affordability and lending 
policy, so Mr Hs loan application was approved.
The initial decision to provide Mr H with a credit card with a limit of £250
Mr H was given a credit facility where there was an expectation that hed repay what he 
borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. The relevant rules, 
regulations and guidance in the period Aqua lent to Mr H dont set out what a reasonable 
period of time is. So I think its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always 
be dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. 
That said, Mr Hs declared income at the time together with there not being anything too 
concerning on his credit file leads me to think that it was reasonable and proportionate for 
Aqua to conclude Mr H would be able to repay £250 within a reasonable period of time. So I 
dont think that Aqua did anything wrong when it decided to provide Mr H with a credit card 
that had an initial limit of £250.    
The credit limit increases from November 2017
Aqua offered Mr H a credit limit increase of £900 (taking the total amount of credit available 
to him to £1,150) in November 2017. In my view, this was a significant increase and Aqua 
needed to ensure Mr H could sustainably repay a balance of £1,150 within a reasonable 
period of time. Aquas correspondence appears to suggest that its decision to increase the 
credit limit on Mr Hs account was based on his account conduct and management. I have 
significant concerns with the general principle of this approach. It is not clear to me why a 
borrower who is able to successfully manage a given credit limit can then automatically be 
deemed, without further checks, to be able to successfully manage a higher limit. It seems to 
me this logic would likely lead to continually increasing limits, unless or until problems arise. 
In any event, even if I put my concerns about the approach in principle to one side, in this 
case, Ive seen that after opening the account Mr H immediately made a balance transfer 
taking him close to his credit limit. He then only made minimum payments to the account 
from this point until the limit was increased. Indeed, it looks like Aqua only received a total of 
£15 in payments from Mr H before it decided to offer him an additional £900. I cant see how         
Mr H paying £15 over the course of three months was any sort of indication that he could 
repay a further £900 within a reasonable period of time, given this wont have been enough 
to have even covered the minimum payment, on the new limit, for a month.   
Im also concerned that while Aqua says it also reviewed how Mr H was managing his other 
credit commitments as part of its lending decisions, it doesnt appear to have taken into 
account that Mr Hs debts elsewhere had doubled from almost £6,000 to almost £12,000. 
And I dont think that the position was much better at the time the second increase was 
offered in February/March 2018 either. By this stage Mr H had made a further two payments 
of £5. And his debt elsewhere had increased to £14,000. 
Im perplexed at how, in August 2017, Aqua managed to conclude that Mr H was only able to 
sustainably repay £250 when its checks suggested he had no external debt and yet 
somehow also conclude Mr H was able to sustainably repay £1,150 and £2,150 a mere matter of months later, when he now owed approaching £12,000 and £14,000 elsewhere, 
simply because it had received £15 and £25 in payments. 
In my view, Mr Hs management of his existing credit did not in itself demonstrate his ability 
to sustainably repay any further credit (for reasons Ill go on to explain in the next section of 
this decision, I think it demonstrated the opposite was the case). And as such Im not 
persuaded that the checks Aqua carried out  from the first credit limit onwards (including  
Mr Hs loan) were reasonable and proportionate.
As I dont think that Aqua carried out proportionate checks before providing the credit it did 
from the first limit increase onwards, Id usually go on to recreate what a proportionate check 
is more likely than not to have shown. However, for reasons Ill go on to explain in the next 
section of this provisional decision, I dont think that it is necessary for me to do that here.   
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each lending decision, was there a point 
where Aqua ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Hs indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
credit?
Im mindful that the relevant rules and guidance makes it clear that a lender shouldnt 
continue offering credit where the borrowing is unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or 
where its apparent the borrower may be experiencing financial difficulties. So in addition to 
assessing the circumstances behind each individual lending decision, I also think its fair and 
reasonable to look at what unfolded during the course of Mr Hs customer relationship with 
Aqua. 
Ive already explained why, I think that reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
werent completed from the first credit limit onwards. Mr Hs account conduct and external 
debt did not demonstrate an ability to sustainably repay additional credit. In my view, Mr Hs 
account management and his increasing indebtedness showed that he may well have been 
struggling financially. Mr H didnt make a payment above the minimum payment until his 
seventh payment. Aqua will also be aware that it was required to monitor Mr Hs repayment 
record and offering assistance where it appeared that he might have been experiencing 
financial difficulty.
I dont think that more increasing Mr Hs credit limit to an amount almost 16 times the initial 
limit  in the less than a year period since the card was opened and therefore offering 
substantially more credit at an APR of 32.2% - when Mr H was already making little impact 
on his existing debt was offering assistance. In my view, Aqua increasing Mr Hs credit limit 
in this way and in these circumstances was adding to any potential financial difficulty rather 
than offering assistance. 
Im also astounded by Aquas decision to offer Mr H a loan for £7,500 in the circumstances 
that it did in October 2019. Aqua had already determined that there was a danger Mr H 
already had too much debt and reduced the credit limit on his credit card to £2,000, just over 
half the existing limit, in March 2019. Yet it somehow thought Mr H could sustainably repay 
almost four times the amount of the reduction a mere matter of months later. And most 
astonishingly of all, Aqua advanced these funds (using ONS data to assess affordability) 
even after having received a complaint from Mr H about irresponsible lending on his Aqua 
card.  
In my view, Aqua increasing Mr Hs credit limit and advancing further funds in this way  
when the limit decrease suggested that Aqua suspected (and Mr Hs account management 
was clearly demonstrating) an inability to manage existing debt - unfairly increased and 
prolonged his indebtedness. I think Aqua ought fairly and reasonably to have realised Mr Hs existing debt had already become a problem and taken steps other than continuing to 
provide further expensive credit. Instead, its actions meant Mr H paid Aqua high amounts of 
interest for the privilege of it allowing him to delay dealing with his unsustainable debt.
Given all of Aquas obligations and what I think is fair and reasonable taking into account the 
circumstances and everything Ive covered in this section, Im find that Aqua ought fairly and 
reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Hs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so it shouldnt have provided any of the credit limit 
increases on Mr Hs credit card or the loan in October 2019.
Did Aqua act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Aqua acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other 
way.  
So I find that Aqua didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching questions, set out on page 
one of this decision, I find that:
Aqua did complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr H to satisfy itself that 
he was able to sustainably repay a credit card with an initial credit limit of £250 in 
August 2017; 
Aqua didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr H to satisfy itself 
that he was able to sustainably repay what he owed for any of the credit limit 
increases offered on the credit card or the loan offered in October 2019;
Aqua ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the credit limit increases and 
the loan for £7,500 were unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr H and were 
unfairly and excessively increasing his overall indebtedness; 
Aqua didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way.
The above findings leave me reaching the overall conclusion that Aqua unfairly and 
unreasonably provided Mr H with the credit limit increases on his credit card and a loan.
Did Mr H lose out as a result of Aquas shortcomings in relation to his account?
As Mr H had to pay a significant amount of interest and charges as a result of his credit limit 
unfairly being increased and as a result of being provided with his loan, I think that he lost 
out because of what Aqua did wrong. So Aqua should put things right.   
Fair compensation  what Aqua needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having carefully considered everything, given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs 
complaint, I think that Aqua needs to do the following to put things right:
Mr Hs credit cardrework Mr Hs account to ensure that interest is only ever charged on the first £250 to 
reflect the fact that no credit limit increases should have been provided; 
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Hs account once all adjustments have been 
made Aqua should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Hs credit file, it should 
backdate this to November 2017; 
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr H 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments 
have been made, then Aqua should remove any adverse information from Mr Hs 
credit file.
Mr Hs loan
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Hs loan from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £7,500.00 
originally lent. Aqua should treat any payments made should the new starting 
balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to 
Mr H. 
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr H, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a result of this loan 
should all adjustments result in there no longer being an outstanding balance.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Aqua to take off tax from this interest. Aqua must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. NewDay Ltd should put 
things right for Mr H in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman