DRN-3811683
The complaint
Miss G complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund her for payments from her account.
What happened
Miss G noticed several transactions leaving her account, which she didnt recognise. Miss G 
contacted Barclays and it investigated the payments.
Barclays wouldnt refund the payments as it thought Miss G had likely made the payments 
herself, or allowed someone else to make them. Barclays closed Miss Gs account.
Miss G wasnt happy with this answer, so she brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt think Miss Gs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought it was more likely Miss G had authorised the payments. The 
investigator said some payments were made on Miss Gs phone, and the other phone used 
had been set up using Miss Gs phone and mobile banking.
The investigator could see the same internet protocol (IP) address had been used, and 
Miss G had made undisputed payments during the period unrecognised payments had been 
made. And most of the payments were made using money refunded by Barclays for fraud 
claims on card purchases, using Miss Gs personal identification number (PIN).
Miss G didnt agree with the investigator. Miss G said thered been workmen in her flat, 
which could explain the payments. Miss G also said shed left her phone in her bag at 
hospital, only had one phone and this had been broken prior to the payments.
Miss G said the loss of this money, from her childs savings account, had been very 
stressful. And the money went to a person the bank had concerns about. Miss G asked for 
an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule, its fair for Barclays to hold Miss G liable for payments she made or 
authorised. So, if I believe its more likely Miss G made or authorised the payments, I wont 
be asking Barclays to refund the payments.
Miss Gs account received several refunds for card payments disputed as fraudulent. The 
first batch of refunds was paid to Miss Gs account on 21 February 2022.
A new payee was set up on Miss Gs mobile device on 21 February 2022 and two payments, 
for £180 and £200 were sent out, at 18.40 and 20.50. The mobile used was the same one 
Miss G had been using since 31 October 2021.
There was still around £60 left in Miss Gs account following the two payments. If a random 
third party had access to Miss Gs device, and could send payments out, Id expect them to 
empty the account and as quickly as possible.
Instead, there was a gap of over two hours between the first and second payments and 
money was left in the account.
More refunds were paid to Miss Gs account the following day, and this allowed a £250 cash 
withdrawal to be made. Miss G told Barclays she hadnt lost her card, and Miss G hasnt 
disputed this withdrawal.
Im satisfied this cash withdrawal was made using Miss Gs card and her PIN. Miss G didnt 
have much money left in her account on 21 February 2022, around £20, so its unclear how 
she thought she was able to access £250.
Two further disputed payments were made from Miss Gs account later the same evening, 
22 February 2022, for £290 at 20.37 and £240 at 21.51. Again, theres a gap between the 
payments and money was left in Miss Gs account.
Miss G then made a payment of £5 to a person she regularly pays. This payment hasnt 
been disputed. The payment was made at 18.11 on 23 February 2022 using the same 
mobile device used to make the payments Miss Gs disputed.
It would be odd for a random third party, with access to Miss Gs device and the money in 
her account, to send a payment to someone else. On balance, Im satisfied Miss G made 
this payment, using the same device.
Im also satisfied Miss G would have seen the balance on her account, which would have 
been much higher than it should have been. But Miss G didnt report anything unusual to 
Barclays at this time.
Further refunds were made to Miss Gs account, and two further cash withdrawals were 
made, for £200 on 24 February 2022 and £500 on 25 February 2022. Neither of these 
withdrawals have been disputed.
And, again, Im unsure how Miss G thought she had access to so much money. Its quite 
unusual for Miss G to take large amounts from cash machines.
Again, Im satisfied Miss Gs card and PIN were used to make these withdrawals. And these 
withdrawals are both funded by refunds to her account. I think Miss G should have been 
aware she shouldnt have been able to access so much money but didnt tell Barclays.
Miss G received regular credits to her account on 25 February 2022 and transferred most of 
this to a savings account she holds at Barclays. Im satisfied Miss G should have seen the 
other, disputed activity on her account at this point.
On 28 February 2022 a new mobile device was set up on Miss Gs account. Barclays has 
provided evidence to show this could only be done by generating a code in the device 
Miss G had previously been using.
This new device was then used to transfer money from Miss Gs savings account with 
Barclays. This money was then sent out to the same payee as the previous, disputed payments, the ones previously made on Miss Gs registered device.
It was only following this transfer Miss G spoke to Barclays and raised all the unrecognised 
activity on her account. 
Im satisfied Miss G authorised the setup of the new device. This means its reasonable for 
Barclays to hold Miss G liable for payments made on this new device.
Miss G has said her phone was broken, so she couldnt have made the payments. But Im 
satisfied the same phone was used to make previous, undisputed transactions from October 
2021. It follows Im satisfied Miss G made the disputed payments from 21 February 2022 to 
27 February 2022 using her phone, broken or not.
Miss G also says other people may have had access to her phone, she had builders in her 
property, and shed left her bag, and phone, unattended at times.
But this wouldnt explain why Miss G didnt notice the disputed transactions, or the extra 
money, when she was making payments she hasnt disputed.
I dont think a random third party accessed Miss Gs phone, on numerous occasions, to send 
payments out. Not only were the payments made over a number of days, but money was left 
in Miss Gs account.
It wouldnt make sense for someone to leave money in the account, not knowing when 
Miss G would notice, report, and stop the fraudulent access.
Because I think Miss G authorised most of these payments herself, and then authorised 
someone else access to her account to make further payments, I think its fair for Barclays to 
hold Miss G liable for the disputed payments from her account.
And because I think its fair for Barclays to hold Miss G liable for the payments it doesnt 
matter, in the specific circumstances of Miss Gs complaint, if Barclays had concerns about 
the person the money was sent to.
I also think its fair for Barclays to immediately close Miss Gs account. Barclays decided 
Miss G had made the payments she was disputing and was therefore a risk to the bank. 
Barclays closed the account to protect Miss G and itself from any further loss.
Barclays didnt take back the money it refunded Miss G as part of the fraud claims raised on 
her account. Im satisfied Miss G was able to access cash from these refunds, so I think 
Barclays has been very fair in not taking back the money it refunded.
I dont think Barclays needs to refund any of the payments Miss G has disputed or do 
anything else to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman