DRN-4250582
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc took too long to deal with the claim for damage 
to his vehicle and that they settled a third party claim against him as a fault claim without 
carrying out a proper investigation. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome suggested by our investigator for these reasons, 
although I also consider AXA should pay interest on one of the amounts due to Mr E:
AXA could have done a better job of investigating the third partys claim against Mr Es 
policy. But I agree with our investigator that the outcome would have been the same, ie 
AXA would have had to settle it in full due to the nature of the incident and the fact that it 
was most likely Mr E was always going to be held fully at fault for the incident, as he was 
emerging from a parking space. 
AXA took too long to arrange a courtesy vehicle for Mr E initially, but Im satisfied what 
theyve paid him in compensation to cover any loss flowing from this and the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced is reasonable.
AXA took far too long to decide that Mr Es vehicle should be written off, but Im satisfied 
what theyve paid to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
because of this is reasonable. 
AXAs communication in relation to the claim against Mr E by the third party was poor. 
And so was their general communication. AXA have offered an additional £150 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr E experienced because of this. 
However, bearing in mind AXA incorrectly took away Mr Es courtesy vehicle in the 
middle of his claim and then took it away again at short notice when it decided to write off 
his vehicle, I dont think £150 is enough. But I think if AXA pays Mr E the additional £335 
our investigator has suggested to cover the additional losses and costs Mr E incurred 
when he found out very late his vehicle had been written off and had to go and collect 
the racking from it at short notice, this would be fair compensation overall. 
I am pleased AXA have agreed to pay Mr E £2,130 to cover the cost to him of hiring a 
vehicle after their error left him without one. And I think this is appropriate, as AXA 
should not have taken away his courtesy vehicle, as he was entitled to have one until his 
vehicle had been repaired or written off. I understand Mr E has provided copies of 
receipts for this to AXA but, as far as I know, AXA still havent paid this amount to him. 
Plus, I think AXA should pay interest on the amounts making up this total amount at 8% 
per annum simple from the date Mr E made each payment to the hire company to the 
date AXA pays him the overall amount. This is because Mr E needs to be compensated 
for being without these funds. 
I think AXA should pay Mr E a further £325 for the earnings he lost when AXA cancelled 
his courtesy vehicle at short notice when it decided to write off his vehicle. Mr E has 
explained that he had five boiler services booked and had to cancel these at a loss to 
him of £65 per job. I appreciate he saved some costs, as he didnt have to use up fuel to 
get to the jobs. But I think this amount would be negligible and I am satisfied it is 
appropriate to make AXA pay him this amount without further evidence. However, as I 
am not deducting anything for the saving in fuel costs, I am not going to make AXA pay 
interest on this amount.
Putting things right
As set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint and AXA should pay Mr E the 
following to put things right:
An additional £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience, if they have not 
paid this already;
£335 in compensation for the delay in writing off his vehicle; 
An additional £325 to cover loss earnings, and
£2,130 to cover hire costs if they have not paid this already, plus interest at 8% per 
annum simple from the date Mr E paid these amounts to the date AXA makes or 
made this payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint and order AXA Insurance UK Plc to do 
what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman