DRN-2822562
The complaint
Mr D complains Conister Bank Limited acted unfairly in the way it set up a hire purchase 
agreement for a car, and that it subsequently mishandled the unwinding of that agreement.  
What happened
Mr D had a car via a finance agreement but found that, due to a change in his 
circumstances, he was struggling to make the repayments and wanted to be able to 
reduce the monthly costs. So, he attended a dealership in April 2019, and discussed his 
situation. The dealership agreed to take Mr Ds existing car from him and arrange a hire 
purchase agreement for another used car at a lower monthly payment.
However, the agreed trade-in price for Mr Ds existing car didnt clear the outstanding 
finance, meaning there was an amount of negative equity left to clear. The dealership 
included this amount in the hire purchase agreement for the second car, so that the credit 
agreement covered both the cost of the replacement car and the outstanding balance on 
the original credit agreement. Conister agreed to finance the hire purchase agreement. It 
was aware, from the paperwork completed by the dealership, that the credit provided was 
to cover the cost of both the negative equity in the first car and the cost of the second car.
Mr D says he wasnt able to test drive the second car at the time and had also pointed 
out scratches on the cars bodywork. He says he asked for these to be repaired before 
purchase, but they werent. The dealership says it offered Mr D the opportunity to 
arrange a test drive, but he didnt do so, signing the finance agreement online instead. It 
also says, as the car was four years old, it had some signs of wear and tear on the 
bodywork.
Mr D says that when he collected the car and drove away, he noticed that the brakes 
squealed. He returned the car to the dealership who inspected it but said it couldnt find 
any fault with the brakes. Mr D says the brakes continued to make a noise and he 
returned the car again to the dealership, who inspected it and found an oil leak, and it 
replaced the oil sump plug. The dealership says this leak hadnt been present when the 
car had had its pre- sale check.
Mr D says he had other problems with the car, including the front drivers door jamming, 
for which he had to call out roadside assistance. He says he got this repaired at another 
garage as, by this time, there had been a breakdown in his relationship with the 
dealership. He also says he had arranged repairs to the tracking and balance and was 
told that the car needed expensive repairs to its brakes, and also new tyres. Mr D says 
he spent around £1,000 on other repairs to the car.
Mr D contacted the dealership and said he wanted to return the car. The dealership 
agreed to have the car back and for the agreement to be unwound but said that Mr D 
would have to pay the outstanding negative equity on the original car, that amounted to 
£2,360.
Mr D was unhappy at about the dealerships offer, as he didnt think the way the hire 
purchase agreement had been drawn up was fair. This was because he said the sales 
price of the second car had been inflated to include the amount of the outstanding 
negative equity. Mr D said the salesperson and referred to this as lump and bump, and 
he didnt think that was legal. Mr D kept the car and complained to Conister. Conister 
arranged for a third-party company to act as its agent and deal with Mr Ds complaint. 
However, for ease of reference, I will refer to Conister throughout, as it is the credit 
provider.
Conister investigated Mr Ds complaint and upheld it but, as the dealership had made 
significant attempts to rectify the situation, including taking the car back and unwinding 
the agreement leaving Mr D to clear the outstanding negative equity, it wasnt going to 
take any action. It said it thought the dealerships offer was a fair resolution.
Mr D was unhappy at Conisters response and complained to this service. As he had kept 
the car, the monthly payments remained due. Unfortunately, Mr D struggled to make 
those payments and a default notice was served. Following discussions with Conister, Mr 
D asked to voluntarily terminate the agreement, and this was agreed by Conister. 
However, in line with the agreements terms and conditions when voluntary terminating 
the finance and returning the car, Mr D was required to pay paid 50% of the total amount 
of credit borrowed under the agreement. This amounted to £5,887. The car was collected 
in September 2019.
The car was inspected on collection and an invoice for £200 was sent to Mr D for 
scratches that were found on the car and its wheels, which were said to be beyond fair 
wear and tear. Conister says Mr D now owes a total of £6,087.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He said while 
he appreciated that the hire purchase agreement showed the sales price of the second car 
as including the negative equity amount for the first, the figures on the sales invoice set 
out the position clearly. The sales invoice showed the cost of the car, the part exchange 
price for the first car, and the amount of outstanding finance on that vehicle.
Our investigator said it wasnt unusual for finance agreements to be drawn up in this way, 
as the amount to cover the negative equity had been paid by the dealership to the original 
finance provider in order to settle that agreement. He said the actual sales price of the 
second car appeared to be in the range for a car of that age and mileage.
Mr D had raised that, due to his health, he shouldnt have been allowed to enter into the 
second agreement. Our investigator said that Mr D had understood that his monthly 
payments were being reduced by changing the car, which is what he had wanted. He 
said he thought Mr D had been able to understand the arrangement.
When looking at the condition of the car our investigator said he had seen the 
dealership had agreed to take it back, and for Mr D to pay off the outstanding negative 
equity on the first car. He thought this was a fair and reasonable response. He said the 
negative equity wasnt a charge for taking the car back but was a payment to clear the 
outstanding balance on the first car. It was reasonable for Mr D to remain liable for that 
amount. Our investigator said Conister had acted reasonably in suggesting this 
resolution had been a fair offer by the dealership.
However, our investigator said he would have expected Conister to have itself looked 
at accepting rejection of the car leaving the outstanding negative equity to be paid but, 
although that wasnt offered by Conister, he didnt think Mr D would have accepted this 
resolution in any event. He said he thought the agreement would still have continued 
as it did, until Mr D had voluntary terminated the agreement. This means Mr D would be in the same position as he was now owing Conister 50% of the total credit amount 
borrowed.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view he says he has been left significantly out 
of pocket.
As the parties couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
When looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I wasnt bound by them when I considered what was fair and reasonable.
Mr D had raised a number of issues in his complaint, including the quality of the second 
car which he said was unsatisfactory. Mr D also said that he shouldnt have been 
allowed to enter into the agreement due to his vulnerability at that time, and that the 
agreement hadnt complied with consumer law because the second cars sales price was 
inflated to include the negative equity element of his original credit agreement.
Id seen the paperwork that was prepared at the time Mr D had entered into the hire 
purchase agreement for the second car. I had also listened to a phone call between Mr 
D and Conister, after hed applied for the finance agreement and Conister was 
considering the application.
I was sorry that Mr D had been through a difficult time and been very stressed over this 
matter. Id seen that hed visited the dealership as hed wanted to reduce his expenditure 
on car payments. The dealership had offered to take his current car as part exchange for 
another car and arranged a finance agreement that would have lower monthly payments. 
Mr D said he was happy with this arrangement as it had achieved what he wanted, but it 
hadnt worked out as planned due to the quality of the second car. I thought seeking to 
reduce his outgoings had been a reasonable step for Mr D to take.
Looking firstly at the quality of the car, Mr D had said that the second car had a number of 
faults and that hed had to pay out for its repairs. He wasnt able to provide any receipts 
for those repairs, so I didnt have any evidence about what work was undertaken on it. 
This made it difficult for me to ask Conister to reimburse him since a four-year old car was 
likely to have had some issues with wear and tear which wouldnt have rendered it as 
being of unsatisfactory quality. Proof of repair work was usually required for a 
reimbursement. So, although I appreciated the relationship had broken down between Mr 
D and the dealership, and he felt he had to take the car elsewhere for repairs, without 
documentary evidence of what work had been carried out to the car and why, I didnt think 
it was reasonable for me in those circumstances to direct Conister to reimburse those 
costs. 
Id seen that the dealership had agreed to take the car back and unwind the agreement, 
leaving Mr D to clear the negative equity. As I didnt have sufficient evidence about the 
faults with the car or what had been repaired, I thought this offer meant that it was 
unnecessary for me to decide whether the car had been of satisfactory quality or not. The 
dealership had agreed the car could be handed back and the agreement ended, putting 
Mr D back in the position he would have been had he not taken the car. However, this 
resolution had left Mr D with an outstanding balance to clear to settle the negative equity 
on his original agreement, which had been difficult due to his financial circumstances. Mr 
D had declined this offer and kept the car.
Id seen that Mr D felt very strongly that he shouldnt pay the outstanding negative equity 
as the agreement was unfair and he said illegal. There was guidance issued by the Finance Leasing Association (FLA) in regard to negative equity and credit agreements. 
This guidance said that where there was a hire purchase agreement for a car together 
with negative equity on a previous agreement, then the hire purchase element should be 
distinct from the refinancing of the negative equity. This was because the hire purchase 
had to be linked to the hire of the vehicle in question, and not the refinancing of an 
existing debt. There should be two separate agreements for each of the elements. Care 
should also be taken to explain to the consumer the nature of the agreements and, if it 
wasnt, then there might be an impact on its enforceability.
Negative equity isnt unusual when finance agreements for cars are ended early, as cars 
are depreciating assets. Here, Mr D had traded in his first car to the dealership as part of 
taking out this hire purchase agreement. Id seen that the sales invoice clearly set out the 
value given by the dealership on the first car, and the amount outstanding on the finance. 
This showed there would be a shortfall that would need to be met. The invoice also set 
out the sales price of the second car.
On listening to the call between Conister and Mr D regarding his application for credit, Mr 
D had said he had been given time to understand the terms and conditions of the hire 
purchase agreement and that there was an element of negative equity included in the 
amount being borrowed. The agent for Conister went on to set out the price of the second 
car and the amount being added to cover the negative equity. So, from the evidence I 
thought it was reasonable to say Mr D had understood that part of the credit he was 
receiving from Conister was to clear the outstanding balance of the first agreement.
I accepted the way the credit agreement had been set up wasnt inline with the FLAs 
guidance as there werent two separate elements, but I wasnt persuaded that because of 
that, this amount should be written off by Conister in full because I think Mr D had 
understood what was being borrowed and why. He was aware that Conister knew the 
correct price of the second car and that nothing underhand had occurred in regard to 
organising the credit agreement.
Mr D said that he had visited the dealership with the aim of reducing his outgoings and 
the dealership was able to assist him with that. Mr D said he was content with what was 
arranged but his subsequent financial difficulties were due to the quality of the car. I 
appreciated that, in Mr Ds circumstances, being expected to pay the negative equity 
would have been difficult for him, but I didnt think that meant it was unfair for Conister to 
seek to recover that amount. From the evidence before me I didnt think I could 
reasonably say that the dealership took advantage of Mr D. So, I thought it was fair for Mr 
D to be liable to repay the negative equity element.
However, I thought it would have been reasonable to assume that part of each of the 
monthly payments made by Mr D under the agreement was going to clear the negative 
equity balance, as well as paying towards the car. Id seen Mr D was only able to make a 
few payments before hed found himself struggling to meet them. In light of that, and that 
the agreement wasnt clear as to how the monthly instalments would be allocated between 
the two elements included in the agreement, namely the negative equity and the cost of 
the car, I thought it would have been fair for the negative equity figure to be reduced by 
£250 leaving £2,110 to pay by Mr D. 
Because Mr D had disagreed with the dealerships offer, he had kept the car, but then 
found himself in a position where he could no longer make payments and so had asked to 
voluntary terminate the agreement. This had left him in a considerably worse financial 
position, as he now owed £5,887 instead of £2,110. I thought it was  likely that if Mr D had 
been aware of the difference this decision would have cost him, he would have accepted 
the dealerships offer and not kept the car until September 2019 and then voluntarily terminated the agreement.
In these circumstances, I thought it would have been fair and reasonable for Conister to 
have limited Mr Ds liability to the amount of the negative equity together with any 
payments that were due under the agreement at the point the car was collected in 
September 2019. I thought it was fair for Mr D to pay for the time he had the car but not to 
be penalised for his decision- making. Conister was aware Mr D had been struggling, and 
I thought it should have taken account of that, as by that time his decision-making may 
have been affected.
Conister also said Mr D owed a further £200 for the condition the car had been returned 
in. I didnt have any evidence as to the condition of the car at the point of sale, but it had 
been accepted by the dealership that it was showing some signs of wear and tear. I 
thought in light of that, it would be fair for the damage invoice to be cancelled and that 
amount removed from Mr DS outstanding balance.
I appreciated that my decision would be of disappointment to Mr D, as he felt he shouldnt 
owe Conister anything further. But, for the reasons given above, I was intending to 
partially uphold Mr Ds complaint. I asked Conister to reduce Mr Ds liability under the 
agreement to £2,110 for the negative equity but to also add any outstanding monthly 
payments which were due when the car was collected in September 2019 to reflect the 
use hed had from it.
Conister has agreed with my provisional decision but Mr D disagrees. He says the car was in 
an unsatisfactory condition and the agreement unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has asked me to look again at any particular part of my provisional decision 
and I havent received any new information. However, I have reconsidered the evidence and, 
although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr D, I havent changed my view.
I appreciate Mr D believes the second car was of unsatisfactory condition but, as set out 
above, I dont think I have to resolve that issue as the dealership agreed to take the car back 
and unwind the agreement. The difficulty I have is that Mr D asked that he was reimbursed 
for any costs that he says were incurred dealing with that car but was unable to supply any 
invoices as to what work had been carried out. I have explained above why, in these 
circumstances, I think it would be unfair to ask Conister to pay for any repairs and I havent 
changed my mind about my approach to that.
As set out above, I also think Mr D understood that the second credit agreement contained 
an element of negative equity from his original cars credit agreement. I think its fair that he 
now pays that minus a deduction reflecting payments he would have already made to that 
outstanding balance when paying the monthly instalments on the second agreement. 
Looking again at this, I think the approach I have taken is fair and the deduction of £250 from 
the full amount of negative equity is reasonable. This means that the outstanding amount of 
negative equity due when the car was returned was £2110.
Although it was Mr Ds choice not to return the car as offered by the dealership, I think had 
he been aware of the financial consequences of that and possibly thinking more clearly, he 
would have agreed to the proposal of returning the car and paying off the negative equity 
that was outstanding. I think its fair for Conister to now limit Mr Ds liability to the negative equity rather than applying the costs of early termination of the agreement. However, by 
keeping the car, Mr D  did have use of it, and its fair he now pays for that. 
So, in addition to the negative equity Mr D should also pay any outstanding monthly 
payments that were due before the car was collected in September 2019. I understand from 
Conister this amounts to £220 on top of the £2110. Mr D therefore owes a total amount of 
£2,330.16 under the agreement.
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Putting things right
Im asking Conister to do the following:
Remove the £200 damage costs to the car from Mr Ds outstanding balance
Reduce the outstanding balance for the finance agreement to £2,110 
(being the amount of outstanding negative equit)y together with £220.16 
(for the outstanding monthly payments up to September 2019 when the 
car was collected) making a total outstanding balance of £2,330.16
As Mr D is now experiencing financial difficulties I would also ask that Conister is 
mindful of that when seeking payment. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint. Im asking Conister Bank 
Limited to do the following:
Remove the £200 damage costs to the car from Mr Ds outstanding balance
Reduce the outstanding balance for the finance agreement to £2,110 
(being the amount of outstanding negative equit)y together with £220.16 
(for the outstanding monthly payments up to September 2019 when the 
car was collected) making a total outstanding balance of £2,330.16
As Mr D is now experiencing financial difficulties I would also ask that Conister is mindful of 
that when seeking payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman