DRN-3635925
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC have failed to refund over £3,600 he lost as part of a 
cryptocurrency investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr H authorised the disputed payments he made to the 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms from both his Lloyds debit card and online savings 
account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer Blackstone 
500 from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by Lloyds, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent Mr H from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that, overall, Mr H has lost over £3,600 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over five separate smaller increments from two accounts which, in my 
judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character. 
I appreciate that Mr H may not have had regular large payments leaving his accounts. 
However, the initial amounts he began paying were relatively small and would not have 
appeared suspicious. And by the time he came to transfer larger amounts (such as 
£1,000 on 8 December 2020 and £2,000 on 15 December 2020) CB Payments had 
already been established as a regular payee. And given he had already made transfers 
of around £500 to this payee, I dont consider an increase in spending to £1,000 and 
then £2,000 would have appeared as a significant and unusual increase in spending. 
There also wasnt any reason for Lloyds to have suspected fraud by virtue of the 
merchant appearing to be suspicious, as the payments were sent to legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms.  So, having considered the payments Mr H made 
from his debit card and savings account, Im not persuaded there was anything that 
ought reasonably to have triggered Lloyds fraud monitoring systems, or that would have 
indicated he was in the process of being scammed. 
Ive also considered whether Lloyds ought to have considered refunding Mr H under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which Lloyds is signed up to. However, 
the Code would not apply to the payments Mr H made, as the first was made by debit 
card (which does not fall within the scope of the Code). And although the remaining 
payments were authorised push payments made from his account, they were paid to his 
own crypto wallet with the cryptocurrency exchange platforms. As such, the Code would 
not apply to these payments either given they were essentially payments made to 
himself rather than to another party.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr H and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Lloyds can fairly and reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman