DRN-2881080
Complaint
Mr W has complained about a logbook loan Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and was repaid with another one.
Background
Varooma provided Mr W with a loan of £500 in January 2018. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £60. One of our investigators reviewed what Mr W and 
Varooma had told us. And he thought that Varooma hadnt done anything wrong or treated 
Mr W unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. Mr W disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint.
Varooma needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Varooma needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether      
Mr W could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Varooma provided Mr W with a logbook loan for £500 in June 2018. This loan was to be 
repaid in 24 instalments of around £60, which meant the total amount to be repaid was 
£1,400.00. Varooma says it agreed to Mr Ws application after he provided details of his 
monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out. All of this information showed Mr W 
could comfortably make the relatively low monthly repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr W has disputed the veracity of the credit check saying that it cant 
have been thorough as he was in a Debt Management Plan (DMP) and this wasnt picked 
up.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr W and Varooma have said. The first thing for me to say 
is that Varooma has provided a record of the credit search information it received. It isnt 
particularly detailed but it doesnt show anything too alarming. And it certainly doesnt show 
that Mr W may have been in DMP. It is possible that a more detailed credit check might have 
shown that Mr W had more extensive existing debts as well as a DMP. But as the copy of 
the bank statement Mr W provided doesnt obviously suggest he was in a DMP or other 
excessive debt and there was no requirement on a lender to carry out a credit check in the 
first place, I cant reasonably say that Varooma ought to have done more here. 
Furthermore, bearing in mind this was Mr Ws first loan with Varooma, the low monthly loan 
payments in comparison to Mr Ws income and there being nothing else to contradict the not 
unreasonable figures arrived at in the income and expenditure assessment, I dont think that 
it was unreasonable for Varooma to have proceeded with this application. 
I accept Mr Ws actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Varooma obtained. For example, I know what 
hes said about his existing debt position. But the key here is that its only fair and 
reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something 
wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining Mr Ws bank 
statements here. And even then Mr Ws statements in the leadup to the application dont 
obviously demonstrate that he wasnt able to repay the just under £60 a month e was 
committing to. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Varooma did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr W - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. So overall I dont think that Varooma treated    
Mr W unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate this 
will be very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman