DRN-3831747
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly closed his bank accounts without warning. 
What happened
In December 2021, Metro Bank closed Mr S business accounts and a personal account 
without warning. Mr S says this happened unfairly following an issue in branch. Mr S says he 
wanted to deposit £90 and when he tried to do so he was asked about where the money 
came from. He says he explained he had the money at home, but the deposit wasnt 
accepted. He says he was then accused of being aggressive towards staff and then later it 
was alleged that he threatened to punch a customer. Mr S says he has spoken to the police 
about the issue.
Mr S says the closure of his accounts left him unable to carry out transactions and unable to 
access his bank statements which were needed to complete his tax reporting. 
Metro Bank issued a final response letter dated 30 December 2021. It said that its staff had 
followed the correct procedures by asking Mr S questions about the source of the money he 
wished to deposit. It said Mr S accounts had been closed in line with its terms and 
conditions
Mr S responded to Metro Banks final response letter saying that when he visited the branch, 
he had been polite and simply asked why his £90 deposit wasnt being accepted when he 
had been able to deposit £200 a few days earlier. He believes the accusation of aggressive 
behaviour was raised against him because he had asked for the branch managers name 
and had said he would be raising a complaint. Mr S says he was required to provide 
evidence of where his money had come from which meant he had to go home to print a bank 
statement showing he had previously withdrawn £100, information that would have been 
available to Metro Bank had it checked. He asked to see evidence of the CCTV to confirm 
his behaviour at the time. Mr S did not accept that his behaviour was in any way threatening. 
Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She noted the ongoing discussions with the police about the incident 
and said this was a separate issue. In regard to the account closures, she didnt find that 
Metro Bank had done anything wrong. She did note that Mr S had requested copies of his 
bank statements, and these werent initially sent, however this had since happened. 
Therefore, she didnt require Metro Bank to do anything further in resolution of this 
complaint. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that further information was needed to 
get a clear picture of what had happened. He raised several points which he suggested 
showed Metro Bank hadnt been truthful in its responses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this issue has caused Mr S stress, and I appreciate that he feels that more 
information is needed to understand fully what happened when he visited the branch. I note 
that he asked for the CCTV coverage of his visit, but this wasnt provided or retained. Given 
there was an ongoing dispute I think Metro Bank should have retained the footage for 
consideration. However, having looked through the information provided I find I have enough 
to make a decision about whether Metro Bank did anything wrong or acted unfairly towards 
Mr S when he visited the branch in December 2021 and when it then closed his accounts.
Mr S has made several comments about the involvement of the police and the extent of this. 
I understand the comments and concerns he has raised. However, my role is to consider 
whether the actions taken by Metro Bank in relation to Mr S accounts was reasonable and 
so while I have noted the statements in regard to the police involvement my consideration of 
this is to the extent that it has an impact on the decisions made in regard to Mr S accounts.
Mr S has made a number of points and arguments through this investigation and in response 
to our investigators opinion. I want to reassure him that Ive considered all of them. But I 
wont be addressing each and every point. Instead, Ill be focussing on the crux of the 
complaint. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
When Mr S visited the branch in December 2021 to make a deposit he was asked about the 
source of the funds. I note Mr S comment about the size of the deposit and that he had 
previously been able to deposit a larger amount. However, I cannot say that Metro Bank was 
wrong to ask for this. 
Metro Bank staff say that Mr S became aggressive towards staff and there was also an 
incident with another customer. I appreciate that Mr S says he wasnt rude but just asked 
why he had to provide proof of where the money came from, but given a call was made to 
the police I find, on balance, it reasonable to accept that the staff felt Mr S behaviour was 
threatening. This is also supported by the statements provided of the incident by the staff 
present.
Mr S left the branch and then returned later with a copy of his bank statement to show he 
had withdrawn £100 a few weeks earlier. Metro Bank said that given the timing of the 
withdrawal further questions were asked. I can appreciate why Mr S found this frustrating, 
but I cannot say that Metro Bank was acting unreasonably or treating Mr S unfairly by asking 
the question. Metro Banks staff statements say that Mr S started shouting and became 
aggressive and the police were called again. Again, while I note Mr S comments about the 
incident given the police were called I accept that the staff felt threatened by his behaviour.
The terms and conditions of Mr S account say that accounts can be closed immediately in 
certain circumstances, including when a customer is aggressive to staff. Therefore, on 
balance, while I understand that Mr S believes that his behaviour wasnt aggressive, based 
on the testimonies I have read and the actions taken by the staff at the time, I find that the 
staff members were concerned by Mr S behaviour and so I do not find I can say Metro Bank 
acted unfairly or outside of its terms and conditions by taking the action it did.
Mr S requested copies of his bank statements and as these have now been provided, I do 
not require Metro Bank to do anything further in resolution of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman