DRN-3194393
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (HBOS) wont refund the 
money hes lost to a scam.  
Whats happened?
Mr B saw a private advert for a car on a well-known online marketplace. He contacted the 
seller and she explained that she was selling her car as she had recently received a 
company car. She gave Mr B some general information about the car and sent him some 
photographs of it. She said that the car was in storage with a haulage company (company 
H) in Scotland and Mr B could collect the car in person or company H could ship it to him  
either way, the purchase price would stay the same because she had already paid company 
H for its services, including shipping the car to a buyer.
A price of £3,900 was agreed and Mr B was told that in order to purchase the car, he needed 
to register as a buyer on company Hs website  the seller provided a link to the website  
complete a form, and company H would send him an invoice. The car would be delivered to 
his address within around 3-5 working days of company H receiving Mr Bs payment via 
bank transfer and he would be allowed a 10-day inspection period, after which he could 
reject the car and receive a full refund if he found anything wrong with it.
On 18 October 2019, Mr B visited a branch and transferred £3,900 to the account details 
company H had given him.
Mr B raised a fraud claim with HBOS when he didnt receive the car by the date he 
expected, and he couldnt make contact with company H or the seller. But HBOS declined to 
reimburse him. It said that it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place, but Mr B 
failed to carry out sufficient checks before making the payment. £5.85 of Mr Bs money has 
been recovered from the bank account which received it and returned to Mr B.
Mr B has said that there was no suggestion his purchase would turn out to be fraudulent. 
The sale appeared truthful and highly convincing. He telephoned company H and did an 
internet search on it, and everything seemed above board. He also had lots of 
communication with the seller and company H over several days before paying for the car. 
Hes said that HBOS branch staff didnt ask him any questions about the payment he was 
making and, if they had, then he would have reconsidered purchasing the car.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that Mr B displayed some level of caution before parting with his 
money. He said that HBOS shouldve fully reimbursed Mr Bs loss under the provisions of 
the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) because it 
hadnt been able to establish that Mr B made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing that he was paying a legitimate company.
HBOS didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 25 November 2021.
I said that HBOS is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment scams, like the one Mr B 
has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. HBOS hasnt explicitly 
stated which exceptions it thinks apply here  but it seems to suggest that it provided an 
effective warning to Mr B, which was ignored, and that Mr B lacked a reasonable basis for 
belief in making the payment.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, I said there was an obligation on HBOS to provide 
an effective warning. Its not entirely clear whether HBOS is suggesting that it provided an 
effective warning. But, for completeness, I explained that I dont think it did. The only 
interaction between Mr B and HBOS was when Mr B made the payment in a branch. The 
adviser that helped Mr B has said they cant fully recall the conversation they had with him, 
but they always ask their customers if:
theyre happy theyre paying a legitimate company
they have any concerns
they have researched who theyre paying
they are happy to make the payment
Assuming the conversation went the way the adviser has suggested, I wasnt persuaded that 
any warning was given as such. In the circumstances, I thought HBOS shouldve found out 
what the payment was for  a car  and delivered a warning that sufficiently covered the 
common features of vehicle scams. But there was no real attempt to find out what the 
payment was for or explain what the risk might be and how to avoid it as I thought there 
should have been, and I was satisfied that an effective warning wasnt provided. Under the 
CRM Code, I said I also need to take into account whether a warning is likely to have had a 
material effect on preventing the scam. Here, I was satisfied, on balance, that it would have 
done so. From what Mr Bs said, he doesnt appear to have appreciated the risk he was 
taking. I thought that a straightforward explanation of how these scams work would likely 
have caused Mr B, and any other reasonable person, some concern. And Mr B has said that 
he would have reconsidered purchasing the car if HBOS had alerted him to the fact that he 
may be falling victim to a scam.
I also thought about whether Mr B had a reasonable basis for belief. I considered what steps 
he took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transaction, and whether it was 
reasonable for him to proceed with the payment.Mr B has said that he saw photos of the car outside of a residential address, and the seller 
appeared willing to allow him to collect the car if he wanted to, so he wasnt suspicious. 
I also saw that Mr B had lots of communication with the seller and company H as he says. 
But considering the cars age, mileage and condition, I thought the price seemed low. Mr B 
was put off viewing the car before purchasing it and I couldnt see that he was given much 
information about it  he was told the make, model, mileage and condition but he doesnt 
appear to have been given such detailed information as the cars fuel type or transmission, 
or that he was even given the cars vehicle registration number. Given all of this, I said 
I wouldve expected Mr B, or anyone else to be put on guard. But Mr B didnt carry out any 
checks or make any attempts to protect himself. For example, he didnt:
take any steps to verify the seller was genuine
carry out any checks on the vehicle to ensure that it wasnt stolen, was free from 
finance and belonged to the seller
attempt to pay for the car via more secure means than a bank transfer, particularly as 
he was apparently paying a company and companies almost always accept different 
methods of payment
I said Id also seen evidence which indicates that Mr B had some reservations but proceeded 
with the payment regardless. It appears that he tried to telephone company H before making 
the payment, but they didnt answer his call, so he sent the seller a message which said:
Please give contact number and name if possible for (company H) I googled them and they 
appear to be a management consultancy company
In responding, the seller offered to have company H call Mr B, but I couldnt see any 
evidence that this call took place. I said that Mr B went ahead and made the payment 
despite this, and what I considered to be an obvious red flag of an internet search on 
company H returning results for a company which trades in a different business to the one 
Mr B thought he was transacting with.
For all of these reasons, I wasnt persuaded that Mr B had a reasonable basis for belief in 
this case.
Finally, I considered whether HBOS took reasonable steps to recover Mr Bs funds, and 
I thought it did. It contacted the receiving bank shortly after Mr B reported the scam. 
Evidence shows that £5.85 was recovered from the beneficiary account, and this has been 
returned to Mr B. I was persuaded that HBOS couldnt have taken any further action that 
wouldve led to the recovery of a higher proportion of Mr Bs funds.
Overall, I was persuaded that HBOS failed to provide an effective warning to Mr B and that 
failure is likely to have had a material effect on preventing the scam. But Mr B also lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief in making the payment. Under the provisions of the CRM Code, 
I said that this means Mr B should be reimbursed 50% of his loss.
I said that the payment was made from Mr Bs current account, and I thought it was likely 
that Mr B would have used his money to buy a different car if he had not been defrauded or 
spent it on other things. So, I considered it fairest to award 8% simple interest from the date 
his claim was declined under the Code to the date of settlement.
I invited Mr B and HBOS to send me any additional evidence they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision.Responses to my provisional decision
HBOS confirmed that it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr B replied to say that he still firmly believed his full loss should be refunded, and he 
provided some further points for me to consider. In summary, he said:
HBOS never gave a reason why it didnt accept his fraud claim.
Hes surprised that HBOS adviser cant recall the conversation they had with him 
when he made the payment given that he only raised his fraud claim a week later. 
The adviser didnt ask him the questions theyve said they always ask their 
customers.
He didnt have any reservations about the payment until the car wasnt delivered as 
expected.
Hes always believed that transacting in a branch was a secure method of payment. 
Hes made 5 or 6 large payments in this way and had no untoward feelings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has said that he didnt have any reservations about his purchase when he made the 
payment, and he thought that paying for the car by a bank transfer instructed in a branch 
was a secure means of payment. These points are relevant to his basis for belief in making 
the payment.
I accept that Mr B may not have realised that there are more secure methods of payment 
than bank transfer, especially if he has transacted successfully in this way in the past. But 
I think that his internet search on company H returning results for a company which trades in 
a different business to the one Mr B thought he was transacting with was an obvious red 
flag. Even if I were to accept that Mr B didnt have any reservations when he made the 
payment, I think that he ought reasonably to have done so for this reason, and all the other 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision. So, Im still not persuaded that Mr B had a 
reasonable basis for belief in this case.
Im sorry to hear that Mr B doesnt agree with my provisional findings. But in responding, 
I dont think hes given me any other new information that would change my mind  I thought 
about HBOS response to his fraud claim and the conversation he had with the HBOS 
adviser when reaching my provisional decision. And as HBOS hasnt given me any new 
information either, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
instruct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to:
reimburse 50% of Mr Bs loss - £1,950  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest on that sum from the date that Mr B should have been 
reimbursed under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. **If HBOS considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this, if he asks for one, so that he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman