DRN-3392379
The complaint
Mr H complains that Kent Savers Credit Union Limited (Kent) have unfairly registered a
default against him.
What happened
Mr H had a loan with Kent, but he suffered financial difficulties, which resulted in him being
unable to meet his contractual monthly payments. Kent sent Mr H a Notice of Recovery
Action letter, dated 29 November 2013, as Mr Hs last payment he made was on 23 August
2013. The letter explained it was his last opportunity to renegotiate his loan repayments to
an affordable level without incurring significant extra costs and affecting his future borrowing
potential. Mr H resumed his payments to Kent in December 2013.
Kent sent Mr H another Notice of Recovery Action letter, dated 5 August 2014, as his
previous payment had been made in April 2014. Mr H contacted Kent to explain his working
hours had reduced and he was in financial difficulty. Mr H contacted Kent again on 28 July
2015, where he agreed to make revised monthly payments of £75 (as opposed to his
contractual minimum payment of £150), and his loan was rescheduled. A new credit
agreement was issued, albeit Mr H did not sign this.
Mr H did not make any payments towards his rescheduled loan, so Kent wrote to Mr H on 5
July 2017 and they explained that Mr H would need to make a full payment for the
outstanding balance within 14 days of their letter, or proceedings may be commenced
against him immediately without further notice. Kent said that in this event a claim would be
made for the legal costs of such action.
As Mr H did not make a payment, Kent started legal proceedings against Mr H and added a
£410 payment to his account on 11 September 2017, to reflect the initial costs of the legal
proceedings. On this date, Kent stopped interest being charged on the account.
A county court date of 19 March 2018 had been set. Kent wrote to Mr H on 10 January 2018,
explaining that if the hearing goes ahead, they will have to add the court fee of £335 to the
amount Mr H owes them as per the terms of his loan agreement. The letter also
acknowledged that Mr H said he was talking to a third party debt management charity, but
Kent hadnt heard anything from the charity. Kent asked Mr H if he could clarify the situation.
The debt management charity contacted Kent, which stopped the county court meeting from
going ahead - also potentially preventing a County Court Judgement (CCJ) being applied.
The charity made a payment proposal on behalf of Mr H. On 28 August 2018, Kent decided
to default the account, as it had been over three years since Mr H made his last contractual
payment.
Mr H made a complaint to Kent. He said Kent did not issue him with a notice of default as
required by the 1974 Consumer Credit Act (CCA). He also said that he was told that Kent no
longer registered defaults due to their system limitations. Mr H added that even if they sent a
default of notice, then the date the default which shouldve been applied was incorrect. Mr H
wanted Kent to remove the default and pay him compensation for distress and
inconvenience.
Kent did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. They explained to Mr H that as a credit union, they
were exempt from the CCA and therefore, they did not have to send him a notice of default.
They also explained which rules and guidance they followed. Kent concluded that they
applied the default at the correct time and therefore they would not be offering him any
compensation.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. He said he wanted Kent to remove the default and
to refund the court costs applied. Our investigator said that that Kent hadnt treated Mr H
fairly. While Kent provided Mr H with forbearance in 2013 and 2014, the lack of payments Mr
H was making meant that the relationship between both parties had broken down and this
should have resulted in the default being applied much sooner. She said that Kent should
amend the default date to 5 August 2014, which was when a final notice was sent by Kent to
say that Mr H has not contacted them to arrange any payment or responded to their previous
letters and that they may take him to court.
Kent asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They made a number of points. In
summary, they concluded that Mr H had been treated fairly, and within all legislation
guidelines. He had been shown the restraint and lenience that only the credit union industry
would provide in these circumstances. Kent say that Mr H has only sought to complain when
their far-reaching help and efforts have come to an end. Kent also referred us to other
decisions our service had made regarding credit unions. Kent said that Mr H was using his
knowledge having been employed by a debt management company, to create a narrative
based on an incorrect and skewed statement of the relevant regulations.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read
everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body, Ill be focusing on the crux of the complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
Both parties are also very familiar with relevant rules and guidance here, so I wont go into
great depth about this here, but I will be referring to this throughout my decision. Ive also
considered the different rules and guidance that a credit union would have as opposed to
different types of financial institutions, such as a bank, in deciding what would be a fair
outcome in this complaint.
Kent have explained that there are certain triggers which would lead to a default being
registered. These are in line with the credit union sector and they will report an account as
defaulted either when (i) they obtain a CCJ, (ii) when they fully recognise and provide for it
as a bad debt in an accounting capacity or (iii) when an insolvency order is put in place.
So Ive looked if any of these factors would suggest that the default has been registered at
an incorrect date or in a way thats unfair in the circumstances. While Kent did start the
procedure of obtaining a CCJ, this was prevented when Mr H contacted a debt management
charity and a payment agreement was put in place, so I cant say a default should have been
applied at this time. I havent seen any evidence that an insolvency order has been put in
place either. This leaves the second option of when Kent fully recognise and provide for it as
a bad debt in an accounting capacity.Kent is free to decide when a debt becomes a bad debt in an accounting capacity  thats
something its entitled to do as a business. But that wont always mean that a default will be
fairly applied in in the individual circumstances of a dispute, as there may be times where a
company act strictly in line with their policies and procedures, but where this can lead to an
unfair outcome for a customer. And Im persuaded that despite Kents best intentions, this is
whats happened here.
I say this because while Kent has explained this is the reason it applied the default here 
that doesnt accurately and fairly reflect the position here. Mr H has had an irregular payment
history with Kent. He has often missed payments. And he went months without making
payments. I can see from Mr Hs account statement that he made a payment in August
2013, but then his next payment was in December 2013. And he made a payment in April
2014, but his next payment was in August 2014. In addition to this, Mr H made a payment in
December 2014, but his next payment was in March 2015.
So I agree that it was right for Kent to show forbearance to Mr H here and that registering a
default when Mr H missed his payment for three/four months for the first time would have
been premature. Mr H did resume his payments and then didnt pay again for a number of
months. But then he did make payments again. So I cant agree with our investigator that the
default should be backdated to 5 August 2014, as Mr H had continued making payments
after this date and Kent showed that they were willing to continue trying to help him after this
date.
Ive then considered the phone call which Mr H had with Kent on 28 July 2015. While the
phone call recording is not available to me, Ive read the system notes that Mr H had
contacted Kent and asked for the loan to be rescheduled for him to pay £75 a month. Ive no
doubt that this conversation took place and I can see that a new credit agreement was sent
to Mr H, which he received. So despite Mr H not signing this, Im persuaded the agreement
was most likely an accurate reflection of what was discussed on the call as I would have
expected Mr H to dispute this at the time if this hadnt been agreed.
The rescheduling of the loan (£75 a month) was also in line with what Mr H had paid Kent on
seven occasions from August 2014 to April 2015. But once the arrangement had been
made, Mr H never paid the new £75 monthly payment. So his last payment at this point was
made in April 2015.
When Mr H had not paid the new arrangement by 30 November 2015, Im persuaded that
this is when Kent should have realistically known that Mr H was unable to pay his monthly
payment. I say this as this would have been four months since the arrangement had been
made (three months after the credit agreement shows the commencement date of the new
payments), and seven months after his last payment. Given his sporadic payment history as
previously mentioned, I think this is when Kent should have taken further action.
But Kent did not write to Mr H until August 2016 about commencing court action. While I
understand that Kent may have been giving Mr H every chance to come to an agreement
with them and showing forbearance towards him, by this point they had not received a
payment from him in 17 months. So Im persuaded that Kent should have taken action
before this point. I realise that, given the history of what happened here, Kent may have felt
that this wouldnt have helped  but it remains that I think it would have been fair and
reasonable to take action here for the reasons Ive given.
The letter asked for Mr H to contact Kent within the next two weeks. But Ive seen no
evidence from Kents systems that Mr H contacted them. It took another year before a notice
of issue had been sought by Kent from a county court on 11 September 2017. So again, asMr H did not appear to contact Kent, Im persuaded that it would have been reasonable for
Kent to start these proceedings a lot earlier than they did, when they had given him two
weeks to respond to their initial letter.
So while Kent may have strictly followed their guidance in terms of when to apply a default. I
need to consider all of the individual circumstances of this complaint. Due to the prolonged
period of time where Mr H did not make a payment. Im persuaded it would have been fair
for Kent to apply a default in November 2015, when it would be apparent that Mr H was not
able/willing to keep to the agreement made.
I agree with Kent that this is only guidance. And they dont have to strictly apply a default
after a three to six month period. The rules and guidance here give them scope to show
additional forbearance and its good to see that they tried to help Mr H for as long as they
did. But I do think that based on his payment history, the default was always likely to be
inevitable. I say this as Mr Hs circumstances did not change over the two and a half year
period between his last payment and the notice of issue, to where he was able or willing to
make the repayments he had agreed.
Ive considered what Kent have said about Mr H using his occupation and knowledge in the
events which subsequently followed. But Kent were aware of his occupation at the time of
the rescheduling of the loan. And while Mr H may have a greater understanding than most
people of how arrears or payment reporting may work, my decision here is based on the fact
that a default should always have been applied here  just sooner than Kent actually
recorded it.
In addition, I wouldnt expect Kent to treat someone who is experiencing financial difficulties
any differently based on their occupation. Mr H would be entitled as anybody else to bring a
complaint against a company, regardless of his profession.
Kent have directed me to other decisions that our service has made about credit union
complaints. But here, I can only consider the merits of the complaint that Mr H has brought
to our service. And not other complaints we have ruled on in the past. This is because the
merits of the complaints Ive been directed to are likely to be different. As I am impartial, Ive
looked at both sides of this individual complaint and the available evidence to decide what is
fair and reasonable here.
Ive also considered what Mr H wants as a result of this complaint. He wants the default to
be removed from his credit file and the court costs to be refunded. But Im not persuaded
that this is fair either. I say this because Mr H did not make his contractual monthly
payments of his agreement and this should be reflected accurately on his credit file.
I also wont be asking Kent to refund the costs relating to the notice of issue as Mr H broke
his agreement and he didnt get in touch with Kent to discuss this before the issue of notice,
despite Kent showing him a significant amount of forbearance here. Im satisfied that Kent
made Mr H fully aware of what could/would happen if they needed to take legal action
against him.
To summarise, while Kent may have been entitled to register the default in 2018, by
following their procedures, But Im not persuaded for the reasons Ive already given that this
led to a fair outcome for Mr H. So it follows that I intend to ask Kent to backdate Mr Hs
default to 30 November 2015 (based on his normal payment date falling on the 28th, but this
was not a working day), which is three months from when his new credit agreement shows
the payments would commence. But I dont intend to ask them to do anything else.I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Kent acknowledged they received the provisional decision, but they didnt provide 
me with any further information to consider by the deadline they were given. Mr H was happy 
with the outcome of the provisional decision, but he thought Kent initially didnt uphold his 
complaint because of his occupation. He said if this was the case then he felt disgruntled 
and discriminated against.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr H has said about him feeling that Kent didnt initially uphold his 
complaint because of the occupation and if this was the case they had discriminated against 
him. But Ive seen no evidence of this. Kent did not uphold Mr Hs complaint as they had 
followed their own procedures in line with the credit union sector when to apply a default, as 
detailed within my provisional decision:
Kent have explained that there are certain triggers which would lead to a default being
registered. These are in line with the credit union sector and they will report an account as
defaulted either when (i) they obtain a CCJ, (ii) when they fully recognise and provide for it
as a bad debt in an accounting capacity or (iii) when an insolvency order is put in place.
In summary, Mr Hs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Kent Savers Credit Union Limited to 
backdate the date that Mr Hs account defaulted to 30 November 2015. Im still satisfied this 
is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Kent Savers Credit Union Limited should backdate the date that Mr 
Hs account defaulted to 30 November 2015.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman