DRN-2166782
The complaint
Mr T complains about the valuation Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited gave for 
his car.
What happened
After Mr T had a car accident, he made a claim under his motor insurance policy provided by 
Liverpool Victoria. Liverpool Victoria accepted Mr Ts claim and valued his car at £14,760. 
Mr T said he couldnt find a replacement for his car of the same model, year and mileage for 
the valuation Liverpool Victoria had placed on his car. So, he felt the valuation was too low. 
Mr submitted advertisements for cars of a similar specification to his as evidence to show 
how much it would cost for him to purchase a replacement.
Liverpool Victoria looked at three industry trade guides to determine the value of Mr Ts car. 
It said the average valuation of the three guides was £14,042. As its valuation was higher 
than the average, Liverpool Victoria said it wasnt prepared to increase its offer. 
Mr T remained unhappy. He questioned, if Liverpool Victorias engineer was unable to locate 
a similar car for the valuation offered, how he was meant to. Liverpool Victoria said its not 
its role as Mr Ts insurer to find him a replacement car  rather it was to cover the market 
value of the car on cover.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things but she 
thought the valuation Liverpool Victoria had placed on Mr Ts car was fair. She said she 
could see Liverpool Victoria had referred to three motor trade guides and taken its 
engineers advice when reaching its valuation. She explained that usually a business would 
take the average of the three valuations to determine the market value, but she could see 
Liverpool Victoria had taken the highest. Our investigator also checked two of the same 
trade guides and one other and could see that £14,760 was a fair and reasonable valuation 
based on these guides. As such, she said Liverpool Victoria hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr T didnt agree. He remained of the opinion that Liverpool Victorias valuation was too low. 
He said if Liverpool Victoria parked a like for like replacement for his car on his drive hed be 
happy  but reiterated they couldnt do this. Our investigator explained Liverpool Victoria 
were under no obligation to replace his car and as theyd paid him the market value of his 
car she didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mr T remained unhappy and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how distressing it must be for Mr T to have been involved in an accident. 
And I acknowledge it brings with it a lot of inconvenience by having to replace his car. But 
having considered what Liverpool Victoria has done, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mr Ts policy says following damage to the car Liverpool Victoria will pay the market value at 
the time of the damage. In order to determine the market value Liverpool Victoria say theyll 
usually ask an engineer for advice and refer to motor trade guides and other relevant 
sources. I can see that they did this. 
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. Id expect Liverpool Victoria to 
use industry trade guides as this is the industry standard. The guides determine the market 
value by looking at many factors including actual selling prices of cars. I can see that 
Liverpool Victoria has looked at three trade guides, in addition to taking their engineers 
advice. And it paid the highest of the three values it found.
Ive also looked at three trade guides. Im satisfied that the £14,760 Liverpool Victoria paid 
represents a fair market value, when looking across the guides, for Mr Ts car. 
I understand Mr T feels strongly that Liverpool Victorias failure to find a like for like 
replacement is evidence the valuation is too low. And Ive seen the advertisements Mr T has 
provided for cars of a similar specification. But often advertised prices are inflated to allow 
for negotiation. So its unlikely a cars advertised price is the actual price it was sold for. 
Thats why the insurance industry and our service think the trade guides can give a better 
indication of what the market value is. And the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy mean 
Liverpool Victoria simply arent obliged to find Mr T a replacement.
In summary, Liverpool Victoria has used trade guides to determine the market value of the 
car. The payment it made is in line with the trade guides Ive looked at, so I think its acted 
reasonably, and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman