DRN-4192970
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont reimburse him the money he lost to a scam.
What happened
Mr A says that in September 2022 he was contacted by someone on social media who said 
they could offer him investment opportunities, relating to cryptocurrencies. Mr A says he was 
told he could get good returns, and that he saw a professional looking website for the 
company hed be dealing with and found positive reviews online. Mr A opened an account 
with Lloyds, and then between September and November 2022, he sent 37 payments from 
his Lloyds account to a cryptocurrency exchange where he had also opened an account, the 
funds were then moved on from there. 
From around mid-October 2022 Mr A had been discussing withdrawing his funds from the 
investment, but was told he needed to make additional payments in order to be able to do 
so. When the scammers continued to ask him to make more and more payments to enable 
him to withdraw his funds he became suspicious, and ultimately realised hed been the 
victim of a scam. 
Mr A raised a complaint with Lloyds, as he felt it should have done more to protect him from 
this scam. But Lloyds did not agree, it said it had intervened when Mr A first started making 
the payments, and had asked appropriate questions, but that Mr A had not said anything to 
make it think he was at risk of a scam. So, Lloyds felt itd done enough to warn him of the 
risks involved and declined to offer a refund. Mr A remained unhappy, so he referred his 
complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
they felt that Lloyds had done what it could to warn Mr A of the potential for this kind of 
investment to be a scam, and had asked appropriate questions to try to identify if he was 
being scammed. They also felt Lloyds could not have done more to recover the funds once 
itd been told of the scam. So, they didnt recommend that Lloyds refund any of the disputed 
payments.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear that Mr A has been the victim of such a cruel scam. I have no 
doubt as to the significant impact this must have had (and continues to have) on him. 
However, it would only be fair for me to direct Lloyds to refund any of thee payments to Mr A 
if I found it was responsible for failings which either caused the loss or hindered its recovery.
Lloyds first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr A provides. But if those instructions 
are sufficiently uncharacteristic or suspicious, Id expect Lloyds to intervene and to ask more 
about the intended transactions before processing them. Id also expect Lloyds to provide 
suitable warnings about common scams to help its customers make an informed decision as 
to whether to continue with the payments. There might also be cases where its appropriate 
for Lloyds to refuse to follow the instruction if there are good grounds to believe it is being 
made as a result of a fraud or scam.
In this case the very first payment Mr A made  which was for over £12,000  was flagged 
as potentially suspicious by Lloyds and it intervened by contacting him and having two 
conversations, over the course of two days, about the payment. Throughout these 
interactions Mr As answers to the questions from Lloyds included that:
He was investing in cryptocurrencies and was aware of the risks in doing so.
He had opened his cryptocurrency account himself and hadnt shared access or 
details of it with anyone else.
He wasnt being instructed or assisted by a broker.
Further to this, after the first call with Mr A Lloyds told him they wanted him to think carefully 
about making this payment given the potential risks, and then called him back the next day 
to discuss it again. Mr A again reiterated that he was making the payment without any 
involvement from a broker. 
As well as asking questions, I think its important that banks provide context to those 
questions and highlight how common scams work. A consumer may not understand the 
importance of the questions being asked without this. But on both of these calls Lloyds 
spoke to Mr A about the risk of scams when dealing with cryptocurrencies, and mentioned 
details of scams that closely matched what was happening to Mr A.
Much of what Mr A said at the time he spoke to Lloyds differed to what he said when 
reporting the scam, so it appears that Mr A was not being honest with Lloyds. And, by 
answering in the way he did, I think Mr A seriously impaired Lloyds ability to try to protect 
him.
And everything that Mr A said to Lloyds was plausible. Investing in cryptocurrency certainly 
can be a risky thing to do. But it can be a legitimate investment, and Mr A very much 
presented it in that way, without saying anything that would indicate he was being scammed. 
Lloyds was under no obligation to provide investment advice or to prevent Mr A making 
potentially unwise financial decisions. It was obliged to try to prevent fraud, scams and the 
misappropriation of funds. And in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds took reasonable steps to educate Mr A about the potential for this to be a scam and 
to ensure he was acting independently when making the payment.
Mr A did then go on to make many further payments, but all of these were significantly 
smaller than the initial payment flagged by Lloyds. And given that Mr A had told Lloyds he 
was investing in cryptocurrency, and this account had only ever been used for these 
payments so there was no account history for Lloyds to compare the payments to, I cant 
see that anything about these payments would have flagged to Lloyds as unusual or worthy 
of further investigation.
Im also satisfied that, upon receipt of notification of fraud, there wasnt anything Lloyds 
couldve done that wouldve resulted in the recovery of Mr A funds given that Mr A has said 
he moved the funds on from his cryptocurrency account himself.
Mr A says that at the time of the scam he was vulnerable, he feels that Lloyds process 
should involve steps to identify those who might be more vulnerable to scams  hes 
suggested they could ask customers if they are on medication or other similar questions. But given the huge range of potential vulnerabilities, I cant see how it could be reasonable to 
expect Lloyds to ask such specific questions. Lloyds has to rely on what it is told by its 
customers or is able to infer about them from customer interactions. And Mr A came across 
as a confident and articulate customer and didnt mention any vulnerabilities in his 
conversations with Lloyds, so Im not persuaded this is something Lloyds could reasonably 
have known or ought to have ascertained at the time.
As I said at the start of my decision, Im genuinely sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr A. 
But as I dont think Lloyds is responsible for any errors that caused or contributed to the loss 
or hindered its recovery, I dont consider it needs to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman