DRN-2901385
The complaint
Mr F says the advice given and the arrangements made by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal), trading as Portafina LLP, to switch his personal pensions into a Transact Self-
invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and recommend investments in unregulated and 
specialist investments was unsuitable.
Mr F is represented in his complaint by Wixted & Co Solicitors.
What happened
In 2011 Portal offered Mr F a free pension review. He accepted and in July 2011 information 
was gathered from him about his circumstances, objectives and matters such as his attitude 
to risk.
Portal issued a suitability report dated 13 July 2011, it identified Mr Fs objectives, including 
to: 
-Use your existing pension plans to provide an income at a later date and to take your 
Tax-Free Cash entitlement immediately.
-Retain a residual fund that remains invested until such a time that you require an 
income in your retirement.
-Ensure your portfolio reflects your current Risk & Reward profile.
-Be kept informed of the performance of your portfolio.
-Have your portfolio rebalanced in line with your Risk & Reward profile.
-Consolidate your investments, as far as reasonable, to facilitate clearer and simpler 
reporting on investment performance.
Ultimately Mr F was persuaded to switch his two Friends Life pensions, together worth about 
£56,500, into a SIPP with Transact. His money was moved by September 2011 and shortly 
after investments were made into four separate funds, costing around £35,700. He received 
just over £14,100 tax-free cash (TFC). Fees from Portal and Transact accounted for a further 
£3,200. This left Mr F with a cash balance in his account of around £3,500.
Mr Fs representative put Portal on notice in January 2018 of a claim for damages arising 
from the advice it had given him to switch his funds from his Friends Life pensions into the 
Transact SIPP and to invest in the specialist funds. It followed this up in November 2019 with 
a detailed claim for compensation.
Mr Fs representative raised various concerns about what had happened. For example, it 
didnt think the process Portal followed in advising him about moving his pension provision 
was appropriate. And it thought the advice to invest in the funds he ended up with didnt 
match his attitude to risk.
Portal sent Mr F its final response on 6 January 2020. It argued that hed brought his 
complaint too late and so this Service couldnt consider it. An Investigator set out why we 
could look at the case, but Portal disagreed. So, the matter was passed to an Ombudsman 
for review. He also concluded that we could look at Mr Fs complaint. 
Whenever a case comes to an Ombudsman for a decision on the merits of a case they must 
still consider jurisdiction. Having done so I agree with the findings and conclusions set out by 
the Ombudsman in January this year. Theres little point in me rehearsing those arguments 
again. I think the following extract from his decision neatly summarises the position:
A complaint, as defined by the regulator, is essentially any expression of dissatisfaction
from or on behalf of an eligible complainant about a businesss provision of or failure to
provide a financial service and which alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may
suffer) a financial loss.
I agree with [Portal] that Ws January 2018 letter was a pre-cursor to a possible legal
negligence claim  the letter clearly said as much. And theres a clear distinction between
what was said in that letter and what was said in the November 2019 letter. However, I dont
think that changes the fact that the January 2018 constituted Mr F referring a complaint to
[Portal]. The letter outlined that Mr F was dissatisfied with the advice (a financial service)
provided by [Portal]; and it referred to Mr Fs losses.
Its clear from the confirmation [Portal] sent to W in February 2018 that it received the
complaint (even if it chose not to deal with it as such).
For the above reasons, I conclude that even if Mr F was out of time to refer the complaint to
us because he had three years from September 2015 to do so [the point at which Portal 
says Mr F ought to have known he had cause for complaint] and we didnt receive the
complaint until January 2020, the exception to the rule would apply because Mr F
complained to [Portal] within the three-year period. So, his complaint to us isnt out of time.
For completeness, I havent seen anything which shows that Mr F became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint at any point that would
have started the three-year clock running an earlier.
This Service can consider Mr Fs case.
In its final response to Mr F, Portal did go on to set out why it thought the advice it had given 
had been suitable. It noted that its recommendations enabled him to meet his objectives. 
The Investigator recommended Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. Portal disagreed and so 
his case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.how does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Fs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portal for Mr F. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 8, which requires a firm to manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between 
itself and its customers and between a customer and another client.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Portal. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Fs best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between his 
former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:
- Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
- Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? This 
could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate 
or the right to take benefits early.
- Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded attitude 
to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
- Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report.
The report contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS (unregulated collective investment scheme).
Even if some of the funds Mr F was invested in werent technically a UCIS, they share 
similar characteristics including the high-risk nature of the investment, being illiquid, subject 
to counter-party risk and uncertain valuation. And I think these matters are relevant to my 
consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in January 2013 it issued an industry alert which said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect. The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when 
advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension 
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr F, it wasnt new guidance; it was 
the regulator re-stating its position.
did Portal adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
There are two documents relating to Portals transaction with Mr F that are important to my 
consideration, these are the fact-find and the suitability report. 
Portal had to obtain information from Mr F in order to understand essential facts about him. 
In order to advise him to switch his pension funds into the SIPP with Transact and facilitate 
investments in the funds it recommended it had to believe that:
- The service or recommended transaction met Mr Fs investment objectives (including 
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing and how long he wanted to invest for).- Mr F was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
- Mr F had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
Portal hasnt met these obligations.
At the time of Portals advice Mr F was 58 years old and intended to retire when he reached 
65. He was married with no financial dependents. He was employed full-time as a fabricator 
with an annual income of around £15,500. He owned his own home, which was worth 
around £190,000. There was no mortgage outstanding. Mr F had no savings or other assets. 
He had a modest credit card balance but no other liabilities.
Mr F held two personal pensions with Friends Life. These had a combined value of around 
£56,500. Aside from a small pot of about £500 with Scottish Widows, this was his only 
pension provision. Its recorded that Mr F said he was unsure what income he would need in 
retirement.
The first two objectives Portal recorded for Mr F in this transaction was to:
-Use your existing pension plans to provide an income at a later date and to take your 
[TFC] entitlement immediately.
-Retain a residual fund that remains invested until such a time that you require an 
income in your retirement.
Through his representative Mr F told us:
The entire process was presented to [Mr F] as a way in which he could draw down his 
[TFC], while making a good return on the remainder of his pension. [Portal] advised [him] 
that, by transferring the remainder of his pension into what [it] described as low risk but 
strong investments (meaning the UCIS) after taking a tax free lump sum, then his pension 
would continue to grow at an impressive rate. 
If [Mr F] had been aware of the true risks involved with the transfer and investments, he 
would have elected for his pensions to remain where they were.
It appears that it is [Portals] business model to entice customers into transferring their
pensions with the promotion of a tax free lump sum and it is telling that the first question on
their Fact Find, after the very basic details, was how much lump sum was required.
In responding to the Investigators view Portals main contention was that the switch of Mr 
Fs pension into the Transact SIPP had been suitable. I note it had less to say about the 
suitability of the investments he ended up with, a matter I will return to later.
Portal says Mr F wanted TFC to purchase a new car and to carry out some repairs to his 
home. It said that it had explored alternatives available for funding, but he didnt want to go 
the route of taking out a loan or re-mortgaging his home. 
Portal also says Friends Life didnt make any reference to accessing Mr Fs funds through 
drawdown. It says this facility wasnt directly available with his policies. If hed taken TFC 
from his plans it says hed have had to use the residual funds to buy an annuity.
Mr Fs representative said that the release of TFC wasnt a priority over his retirement 
planning. It said at no time would he have knowingly risked his pension to take TFC. Mr F 
says the home improvements and car purchase were not essential. Mr Fs representative says he couldve obtained a loan to fund the home improvements and 
car. But it was put to him by Portal that he could take the TFC and that in taking their 
pension and investment recommendations, he would be better off in retirement, even if he 
took his TFC at that time, as his investments proposed would significantly outperform those 
within his Friends Life plans.
Ive though carefully about what both parties have told this Service. On balance I find that 
Portals advice for Mr F to switch his pension was flawed. I say this because:
- Portal failed to conduct a detailed income and expenditure analysis. I note all that is 
recorded in this section of the fact-find is that he had a disposable monthly income of 
£100. I dont think this figure can be relied on given the lack of other information. Its 
also unclear what the overall household position was. 
- Its recorded that Mr F was unsure what income he would need in retirement. Ive 
seen no evidence of an attempt by Portal to get to the bottom of this key question. I 
think this wouldve been important to Mr F being able to take an informed view about 
whether to access his TFC from his only personal pension provision.
- Ive not seen that when considering alternative means of funding Mr Fs spending 
priorities that an effective comparison of the costs and benefits of the options 
available were performed.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr F about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for retirement. And certainly, when early access to benefits are 
recommended there needs to be compelling reasons, on balance I dont think that was the 
case here.
It was Portals role to discern what Mr Fs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. It hasnt 
demonstrated that it met these obligations.
While I find that Portals advice for Mr F to switch his funds was flawed, the fact is hes had 
the benefit of the TFC he accessed, and his representative has confirmed he used the funds 
for the purpose cited at the time of the advice  for his home and to buy a second-hand car. I 
will need to keep this in mind when I consider redress.   
Turning to the other aspect of what I think was Mr Fs main objective, to provide an income 
in retirement. Leaving aside what we know in hindsight about the investment performance of 
the funds recommended to him, I have various concerns about Portals advice here.
I dont believe either party would dispute that Mr F wasnt an investment professional. Nor 
was he a sophisticated investor. Indeed, from the information gathered by Portal it seems he 
had little knowledge or experience of investing. This is important context when I consider 
what happened to him 
For example, Portal conducted a risk questionnaire with Mr F. It concluded he had a 
balanced attitude to investment risk. This was defined in the following terms:
Balanced investors typically have moderate levels of knowledge about financial matters and 
will pay some attention to keeping up to date with financial matters. They may have some 
experience of investment, including investing in products containing risky assets such as 
equities and bonds.In general, balanced investors understand that they have to take investment risk in order to 
be able to meet their long-term goals. They are likely to be willing to take risk with at least 
part of their available assets.
Balanced investors will usually be prepared to give up a certain outcome for a gamble 
provided that the potential rewards from the gamble are high enough. They will usually be 
able to make up their minds on financial matters relatively quickly but do still suffer from 
some feelings of regret when their decisions turn out badly.
Most of the responses Mr F gave to the questions that were part of Portals risk appetite 
assessment are revealing, for example:
-People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  strongly agree
-I find investment and other financial matters easy to understand  disagree
-I feel comfortable about investing in the stock market - disagree
-Id rather take my chances with high risk/return investments than increase the 
amount Im saving  disagree
-When it comes to investing. Id rather be safe than sorry  agree
-I have little experience of investing in stocks and shares  agree
-I have little experience of investing in property  agree
-Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on financial matters - agree
I accept Mr Fs responses to a minority of other questions mayve indicated a different 
outlook and all information gathered needs to be taken together and reviewed. But I cant 
find any proper exploration of what underpinned its assessment of his risk appetite. Rather, it 
seems his answers were fed into a system and dealt with in a mechanical manner without 
further enquiry.
I dont think the risks of switching Mr Fs pension funds into a SIPP enabling the 
recommended investments were adequately weighed.
Given Portal knew Mr F was considering investing the bulk of his funds into unregulated 
collective investment schemes related to hotel development, some of which was overseas, 
Im surprised that specific warnings around counterparties, development and valuation 
uncertainty were not clearly brought to his attention.
Crucially, even if I was to assume that the risk assessment Portal conducted for Mr F was 
right  and I dont - I dont think the investment portfolio it recommended was an appropriate 
match even for someone with a balanced risk outlook. And I cant see that it gave him an 
unequivocal warning about this or set out the implications for him.
Mr F was recommended investments where 95% of his money would be placed in 
specialised and unit trust funds. Two of these funds were described as follows:
The Raithwaites Hypa Fund is a specialist investment in a five star hotel development in 
Whitby, Yorkshire designed to yield 8% per annum. In addition the fund has secured a 
discount to current market value which means that the investment should be worth 25% 
more than the amount, you invest once the Hotel opens in August 2011. Our due diligence 
research evaluates this as a low to medium risk investment which will run over an 
approximate 7-year period and should provide an average compound return of 11% once 
capital growth and income are taken into account.The Hypa Asia Fund invests in "Off-Plan" villas and Hotel Rooms which will be resold at 
higher prices once buildings complete. The developments are all financed by local banks 
and the fund is designed to run over a three year period and return between 50%-100% on 
the original investment. Because of the added currency risks involved this investment is 
medium to high risk but its inclusion in your portfolio is balanced by the other lower risk 
investments.
As well as creating a serious lack of diversification in how Mr Fs funds were being invested, 
Portal hasnt done enough to satisfy me that he was a sufficiently experienced or 
sophisticated investor to appreciate the risks he was taking on.
Im also concerned that Mr Fs capacity for loss doesnt appear to have been thought 
through properly. Although he had another 7 years or so before his planned retirement date, 
he was being advised to switch the vast bulk of his accumulated personal pension provision 
and to invest in a high-risk portfolio. He had no other assets or savings to fall back on.
Its arguable Portal seemed more concerned with facilitating its recommendations than 
providing effective advice about what was in Mr Fs best interests concerning his valuable 
pension funds. 
I note that in its suitability report Portal was upfront about the interests of some its partners. 
It said:
Some of the partners of Portal Financial may also have business interests in some of the
funds invested in through your SIPP. Portal Financial will not receive any commission
through the investment that we may recommend to you. We base all our recommendations
solely on your circumstances after a full FSA required 'know your client' has been carried out
and an appropriate level of due diligence has been carried out on each fund. Due to the fact
that if the fund grows it is mutually beneficial, we believe that there is no conflict of interest.
I understand why Mr Fs representatives challenged the statement made by Portal that this 
situation doesnt give rise to a potential conflict of interest - perceived or otherwise. Since I 
am upholding his case based on other fundamental weaknesses in Portals advice to Mr F, I 
dont need to make a finding on this matter.  
Portal was being paid a lot of money to provide best advice to Mr F. Those charges are 
another area of concern. Its recorded that he was charged a 5% commission for the initial 
transaction (portfolio establishment fees). There was a 1% ongoing advice fee for Portal. 
There were fees for the SIPP provider. And there were management fees associated with 
each of the funds he was investing in. 
Portal failed to provide a clear comparison of the charges he would incur in the new 
arrangements with his former pension plans. While it did note the new arrangement would 
be more expensive, I dont think that was sufficiently transparent.
Overall, I think Portal shouldve provided Mr F with an explicit recommendation not to 
proceed with the switch of his pensions into the Transact SIPP, the purpose of which was to 
access his TFC and invest in a high-risk portfolio. I say this because of the flaws Ive found 
in its advice process; what it knew about his attitude to risk and capacity for loss; and his 
lack of experience of the sort of investments it was recommending.Instead, Portal recommended the switch of Mr Fs personal pensions into the SIPP and the 
specialist investments. In doing this, Portal was aware Mr F was being exposed to significant 
risks in the investments it was facilitating. It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Mr F 
might have difficulty getting access to his pension funds. The investment was specialised, 
out of the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation uncertainty.
I think that if Portal had given Mr F appropriate advice, he wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the switch from his personal pension plans to the SIPP and the high-risk investment portfolio 
it recommended. I cant see Mr F had a pressing need for the TFC, and there was no 
effective assessment of his retirement income requirements. Its unusual for a lay person to 
seek professional advice and then go against the recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the switch of Mr Fs personal pension funds into the Transact SIPP 
and the investment in the high-risk portfolio of funds it recommended could sensibly be 
regarded as fair to him. As such I think Portal failed to meet the regulatory requirements 
when providing him with advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against Portal and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Fs case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Portal responsible for.
If Portal had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Mr F wouldve switched personal 
pension funds into the Transact SIPP, and so he wouldnt have suffered the financial loss 
hes facing. I think its most likely he wouldve left his pensions where they were.
My redress also needs to account for the fact that Mr F has benefitted from taking his TFC. 
His investments did provide some returns and he made some withdrawals from his fund. 
Im also mindful Mr F accepted an offer from Portal - without prejudice to the outcome of this 
complaint  which agreed to pay him an annual income for 2020, and potentially for 
subsequent years, while his funds remained illiquid. If he received any payments under that 
agreement, its fair for Portal to be able to take this into account in its redress calculations.   
So Portal Financial Services LLP needs to do the following.
1. Calculate the notional loss Mr F has suffered as a result of making the switch of his 
pension funds from Friends Life
Portal should obtain the notional value of Mr Fs previous personal pension plans with 
Friends Life, as at the date of calculation. So, as if they hadnt been transferred to the 
Transact SIPP. It will need to obtain the value of the plans as previously invested.
If there are difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then it should use a hybrid 
benchmark, using a 50/50 split of (i) the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index) and 
(ii) the average rate from fixed rate bonds. Im satisfied this is a reasonable proxy for the 
type of return that couldve been achieved if Mr Fs pension had remained invested in his 
previous plans.To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. And 
apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Portal should then find the current value of his SIPP, including investments and any cash 
held. Concerning the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
2. Assess the current value of Mr Fs SIPP. And pay a commercial value to buy any 
investments which cannot currently be redeemed
Mr F took TFC in 2011. His SIPP received some returns from his investments, and he 
withdrew further funds. Im not aware if he made any contributions to his SIPP, but if he did 
these should also be accounted for. After confirming the detailed position, then the value 
Portal obtains or the calculations Portal makes should assume these adjustments would still 
have occurred and on the same dates. 
As acknowledged by Mr Fs representative, Portal can also make an adjustment for any 
payments it has made to him as part of the agreement it reached with Mr F to provide an 
annual income from 2020 while his funds remained illiquid.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr Fs 
former personal pensions and the current value of his SIPP will be his basic financial loss 
that Portal needs to redress.
To close Mr Fs SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised. To do 
this Portal should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing to accept as a 
commercial value for the investments and Portal can then pay this to take ownership of 
them.
If Portal is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, the value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where Portal has 
compensated Mr F fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask him to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to 
access from the SIPP. And Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
As I understand it, Mr F paid all his fees via his SIPP fund. If thats the case, the 
methodology above will ensure he is restored to the position he should been in. However, if 
he paid any of fees directly using other sources of money and he can evidence this, then 
Portal will need to reimburse him for this. If any fees were paid in this way then it will need to 
add 8% simple interest per annum, from the date he paid the charges until it settles.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr F how much has been 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Fs pension so that the value is increased by the loss calculated 
(resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax. 
If compensation is paid into Mr Fs pension, payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension schemes.If paying compensation into Mr Fs SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Portal takes on his investments, then it should pay 
his compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Mr F is a basic rate taxpayer, the 
notional allowance would reduce the amount payable accordingly.
4. SIPP fees
If the investments arent removed from Mr Fs SIPP, and it remains open after compensation 
has been paid, Portal should pay him an amount equivalent to five years of future fees. This 
should allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt with, and for them 
to be removed from the SIPP.
If, after five years, Portal wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments under the investment, it must agree to pay any further future SIPP fees. 
If Portal fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr F should then have the option of trying to cancel the 
investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5. Distress and inconvenience
I also think Mr F has been caused upset as a result of Portals actions. The erosion of his 
pension fund would have come as a shock to him and has clearly had a significant impact. In 
recognition of this it should pay him a further £250.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay compensation to Mr F as Ive indicated above. 
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of his acceptance of my final decision. And it 
should provide the details of the redress calculations to him in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman