DRN-3224562
The complaint
Miss H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss H applied for a credit card from Vanquis in September 2016, and this was approved 
with a limit of £250. Further increases were offered and applied by Vanquis as follows:
Date Limit
September 2016 £250
March 2017 £500
August 2017 £1,250
March 2018 £2,250
Between January 2019 and September 2019, Vanquis offered further increases in limits to 
£3,000, subject to checks. But these werent agreed. In April 2020, Miss H advised Vanquis 
she was in financial difficulty and a payment arrangement was agreed with payments of £80 
per month. In October 2020, a reduced payment of £1 was agreed with zero interest. 
Miss H complained. She said she was a part time student and a single parent. Her only 
income was benefits. She couldnt afford the repayments. Shed only made the minimum 
payments for a long period of time. The only way she could make the repayments was to 
borrow money from her parents and friends. She said Vanquis didnt do the proper checks 
when they agreed to the card or when they increased her limit. She said all the interest paid 
should be refunded, and the markers on her credit file removed. 
Vanquis said Miss H had passed their checks when they issued the card. Miss H had told 
them she was a student with annual income of £10,800. Her credit file was clear of any 
defaults or CCJs. And her other debts were zero. When she was offered the increase, Miss 
H couldve opted out but didnt. And each time  the external debts were close to zero. All 
payments to her Vanquis account had been made on time. So, they said theyd acted 
responsibly.
Miss H brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Vanquis had acted fairly, based on 
everything he could see on Miss Hs file with Vanquis. When she applied for the card, she 
said she had an income of £10,800 per annum. He said there werent any defaults or CCJs 
on her records. After that, she made more than the minimum payments each month and 
didnt miss a payment, other than one. At the time of each increase, Miss Hs other external 
debts were very low  between £24 and £101.
Miss H asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Vanquis 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
So, Ive looked at Miss Hs complaint in the light of this guidance. I think its reasonable to 
say that the limits she was offered were low  so the checks Vanquis were required to do 
were less than for larger limits.
When Miss H applied for the card she said she had income of £10,800 a year. I think 
Vanquis had to accept that as shed stated that to them. And I can see that she had no other 
debts at the time, nor any defaults with other lenders. So  all looked OK. So, I can see why 
Vanquis agreed to the card with a low limit of £250. 
I can then see that at the time of each increase, Vanquis did more checks. They saw that 
Miss H had little debt with other lenders  ranging from only £24 to £101. There werent any 
defaults. So  she didnt have any debt problems. And she had made all payments on the 
card on time  and usually paying much more than the minimum amount due. In the period 
up to March 2017, she paid four times the minimum needed. In the period up to August 
2017, she paid seven times the minimum; and up to March 2018, she paid almost ten times 
the minimum amount needed. I can see that she went over her limit twice between when the 
account was opened and March 2018, but otherwise  the conduct of her Vanquis account 
was very good. And  lenders will look at how an account had been run to get a good idea of 
how a customer is managing their finances. So  I can see why Vanquis agreed to the 
increases in limits.
It's also fair to note that Miss H couldve opted out of the offered increases but didnt. 
Miss H says that she borrowed money from family and friends to make the payments. She 
showed us her bank statements which showed that. But  we wouldnt have expected 
Vanquis to ask more questions of her or asked to see her bank statements  given how she 
was running her Vanquis account. 
I was sorry to learn that Miss H ran into difficulties later  and she is now on a payment 
programme with reduced payments of £1 a month. But equally, Vanquis are supporting her 
by agreeing to that and charging zero interest  which is what we would expect them to do.I can appreciate that Miss H feels strongly that she had been unfairly treated. But based on 
what I have seen, Vanquis did all the necessary and proportionate checks and lent 
responsibly. So, I am not upholding this complaint, or asking Vanquis to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman