DRN-3069612
The complaint
Mr K complains that TSB Bank plc shared his personal data with a third party.
What happened
Mr K says that TSB Bank plc shared his personal data which he discovered when he was 
contacted by a third party. He complained to TSB and asked that this didnt happen again 
and that his data be removed from any databases with which it had been shared. He asked 
which third parties had received his data.
TSB said that Mr K contacted is on 10 May to say he was unhappy that he had been 
contacted by a third party to take part in a survey about TSB. It issued a final response letter 
dated 12 May 2021 in which it said that a mistake hadnt been made and it confirmed Mr Ks 
details had been removed to prevent any further contact about the survey. It provided Mr K 
with the details of the company it used for the survey. 
Mr K didnt think that TSB had provided a full response to the issues he had raised and 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that TSBs Privacy Policy sets out 
how they will use Mr Ks information including saying that it may share data with 
subcontractors, who will act solely on their instructions or their behalf for the purposes set 
out under why we use your information. Within this section of their Privacy Policy theres a 
list of reasons they may use personal information, one being to manage and develop 
customer relations. Based on this she didnt think TSB had done anything wrong. She noted 
that TSB had confirmed the company that contacted Mr K was one it used for customer 
service research.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that TSB hadnt explained why its 
actions were correct. He said he had asked which third parties his data had been shared 
with, but TSB hadnt answered this question. Mr K didnt think he had received a full answer 
to his complaint and said the issue and time spent trying to get answers had caused him 
distress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K is concerned that his personal data was passed on to a third party and he feels that 
TSB didnt provide him with a full response to his complaint which meant he then spent time 
referring it to this service. I understand he feels he should be paid compensation. However, 
in this case I do not think that TSB is required to do anything further.
Mr K was contacted by a third party to take part in a survey about TSB. Our investigator set 
out information from TSBs Privacy Policy. The call Mr K received was from a third party that 
TSB confirmed was carrying out a customer survey on its behalf. Given this, I think this falls 
within the terms of the privacy policy. 
I can understand why Mr K didnt want his data to be transferred and I note that when he 
raised his complaint, TSB took the action we would expect to ensure he was removed from 
the database and so not contacted again about the survey.
I understand that Mr K is concerned about other parties that may have been provided with 
his data. TSB has said it was only using the third party it identified to Mr K in the final 
response letter and had it been using other third parties these would have been disclosed.
I understand that Mr K has been upset by the issues in this complaint but in this case I do 
not think that TSB did anything wrong in regard to the third party customer survey. I think it 
took reasonable actions when Mr K asked to be removed from this and provided the details 
of the third party in response to his request. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman