DRN-3377218
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a short-term insurance policy for less than a day. He let Admiral know that 
hed been involved in an accident just after he had taken out the policy although he didnt 
wish to claim for any damage sustained. But when Admiral looked into the claim from the 
third party it was of the view that the accident had happened shortly before the policy was 
taken out, so it declined the claim. 
But Mr A maintained that he took the policy out in order to undertake a short journey that 
evening to get a takeaway meal and the accident happened just after he had taken the 
policy out. When he complained to Admiral about this, it maintained its position as it was 
satisfied from the account provided by the third party and a police report that the accident 
happened before the policy was taken out. As Mr A wasnt happy about this he complained 
to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He looked into the 
circumstances surrounding the accident and thought that Admiral had acted reasonably in 
turning down the claim as the insurance policy wasnt in place at the time of the accident.
As Mr A didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr A but Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration as he was at the scene of the accident and knows what 
happened. But I can only focus on the available evidence and, on balance, I dont think there 
is sufficient evidence available to say Admiral has acted unreasonably here. 
I know Mr A disputes the timings on the report the police provided. But the report is clear and 
persuasive - it says the accident happened before Mr A took out the policy. Mr A says that 
he called the police after this and that there must have been another incident before the 
accident he was involved in, just after he took out the short-term policy. I dont doubt that Mr 
A called the police when he said he did (after the policy was taken out). But it is clear from 
the police report and the third party that he was involved in an accident before he took out 
the policy. 
Mr A has also raised a number of side issues, including whether Admiral was mistaken when 
it said the third party had suggested he fled the scene and had to follow him. And from what I 
have seen it is possible that Admiral made a few errors in dealing with his claim. But Ive 
focussed on the key issue here  whether, on balance, Mr A took out the policy before or 
after he had an accident with the third party. And given the police report and the third party 
are clear that the accident took place before Mr A took out the policy I think Admiral has 
acted fairly here. So, Im not asking Admiral to do anything further. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman