DRN-2976991
The complaint
Mr T, on behalf of R complained that Paragon Bank PLC (Paragon) refused to refund an 
application fee of £299.00 following the decline of his buy-to let mortgage application.
What happened
Mr T completed a mortgage application on 4 March 2021. Paragon instructed its surveyor to 
carry out a valuation of the property in line with its lending process. Following the valuation, 
the application was declined on the basis that the property was not in a lettable condition.
Mr T felt that this decision was unfair because, at the time of the application, the property 
was already being let and had been refurbished six months prior. Mr T also felt that using the 
word lettable and then deciding their acceptable standard subjectively was unacceptable 
and, that Paragons reason for declining the application was not valid.
Paragon investigated Mr Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. It stated that its Tariff of Mortgage 
charges clearly states that the fees were for assessing and processing an application even if 
the application is unsuccessful or withdrawn. It further stated that it is the professional 
valuation advice received by the lender that is adopted for lending purposes.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. To 
summarise, she felt that the fee was applied fairly and in line with Paragons lending 
guidelines.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators opinion. He said the only condition Paragon outlines 
is that the property has to be lettable. He states that it was and so he should be refunded the 
application fee. He says if Paragon wish to rely on other conditions, he should have been 
made aware of those conditions prior to agreeing to the application fee. As Mr T didnt agree 
with the investigators reasoning the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
Ive looked at Paragons Lending Guide which states:
Valuations 
A security assessment and valuation report will be arranged to determine the property value, 
the realistic and sustainable monthly rental income and the suitability of the property for 
mortgage purposes. 
Any property we are considering should be lettable in its current condition. 
Properties that are likely to have low demand from tenants due to their current condition, 
location or other factors, including poor maintenance or management of common areas, will 
not normally be acceptable. 
We reserve the right to accept or decline any individual property. 
The Lending Guide goes on to state that:
The property will only be deemed suitable if, in the opinion of the Paragon surveyor, it is 
capable of being let on an AST basis, and that there is an acceptable level of rental 
demand.
So, I dont agree that the only condition outlined in Paragons lending guide is that the 
property should be lettable. It also says that the valuation report is completed to establish the 
realistic and sustainable rental income. It considers the current condition of the property and 
those deemed to be in low demand due to condition or maintenance wont be accepted. I am 
satisfied this is clearly defined in Paragons lending guide. So, Ive looked at the comments 
from the valuation addressed to Mr Ts broker in the letter dated 27 March 2021. This states:
The property is in dated condition throughout and with a small and dated shower room with 
WC. The property is not considered to be immediately lettable. The property is not 
considered to be serviceable in its current condition and therefore unfortunately falls outside 
of Paragons lending criteria. It may be possible to reconsider this property once the property 
has been refurbished and in a lettable condition.
It is clear from the report that the surveyor deemed the condition of the property to be dated 
and the communal area, the kitchen to be too small and that the shower room was also too 
small. As such he concluded that the property wasnt lettable in its current condition. 
I do appreciate Mr Ts comment about the property already having a tenant at the time of the 
application. However, I feel that the opinion is based on a long- term evaluation of the 
propertys current state and how likely it is to appeal to people broadly. For example, if the 
current tenant moves out, how quickly/likely will it be to let out the property. And, I dont think 
that is unreasonable. Ultimately, Paragon is entitled to rely on the expert opinion from its 
surveyor when making a decision on whether to lend.
In addition to this, Paragon reserves the right to decline an application. In Mr Ts case, Im 
satisfied that the reasons for declining the mortgage application are clearly explained and 
was in line with Paragons Lending Guide so I cant say that it did anything wrong here.
Lastly, Ive considered whether Paragon acted fairly by not refunding the application fee. To 
do this, Ive considered its Tariff of Mortgage Charges. This clearly states that the £299.99 
application fee is chargeable even if the application is unsuccessful or the customer 
withdraws from it. Mr T hasnt disputed that he was aware of this and so I think its 
reasonable to conclude he knew if the valuation was declined, it wouldnt be refunded.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Paragon acted fairly and I dont require 
it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My Final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman