DRN-3840485
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) dealt with a branch 
visit she made to withdraw money from her account.
What happened
Mrs H says she attended a NatWest branch to withdraw money. She says she was treated 
badly by its staff and was charged an extra £200 by her carer as a result. Mrs H would like 
£500 compensation for what took place.
NatWest says Mrs H attended its branch in October 2021 and wanted to withdraw £7,000 in 
cash. It says it has a duty in those circumstances to make sure Mrs H wasnt the victim of 
fraud and says it normally asks customers to give it advance warning of such withdrawals. 
NatWest accepts it didnt deal appropriately with Mrs H and has apologised. It has paid £30 
compensation and says it will pay the £200 carer costs if Mrs H can provide a receipt.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought NatWest should pay further 
compensation of £45 making a total of £75. The investigator thought NatWest was entitled to 
question the transaction and thought it was entitled to ask for evidence of the carer costs.
Mrs H doesnt accept that view.
NatWest says it will pay the £45 compensation and says it will pay the £200 despite not 
having evidence of the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that NatWest has fairly agreed to pay further 
compensation and has fairly agreed to pay the £200 carer costs despite there not being 
evidence of it that I have seen.
There is no real question here that NatWest ought to have dealt with Mrs Hs branch visit 
more appropriately. This was of course Mrs Hs money and its up to her how she spends 
her money. I can see that NatWest accepts it provided poor service in branch and has 
apologised. I have no doubt Mrs H was caused distress and concern.
I am sure Mrs H appreciates that all banks and building societies must have security and 
fraud measures in place to protect its and its customers money. That means on occasions 
as here that transactions can be questioned, and customers asked what may appear to be 
intrusive questions. I dont think that means NatWest made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
questioning Mrs H, but it could have been dealt with her more appropriately on this occasion.
Im satisfied that Mrs H didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of what took place save for 
the possible carer costs. And I dont think she was caused significant inconvenience or 
distress. Im also satisfied that the compensation offer of £75 is fair and reasonable.
I have not seen any evidence of Mrs H having to pay her carer an extra £200 as a result of 
what took place. I am not sure why such a cost would have been incurred. But in any event, I 
find that NatWest has acted fairly by agreeing to repay Mrs H that amount.
I make clear to Mrs H that I cant consider her other complaint points in this decision and can 
see that she is aware that a new complaint needs to be made about them.
Putting things right
NatWest should pay a further £45 compensation and £200 for Mrs Hs carer costs as its 
agreed to do. This payment will be in full and final settlement of this complaint if Mrs H 
decides to accept my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order National Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay Mrs H £245. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman