DRN-3749577
The complaint
Mr W believes that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (JPM) havent calculated interest on his 
account correctly. 
What happened
Mr W contacted JPM because he felt the monthly interest on his account had been 
miscalculated by them and that a higher amount of interest should have been paid. JPM 
didnt respond to Mr Ws enquiries about the account interest in a timely manner. Mr W 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
JPM looked at Mr Ws complaint. They confirmed that the interest calculation was correct 
and that no further payment of interest was due on Mr Ws account. However, JPM did 
accept Mr W hadnt received the standard of service he should reasonably be entitled to 
expect when hed contacted them about the issue. JPM apologised to Mr W for this and 
made a payment of £30 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset he incurred. Mr W 
wasnt satisfied with JPMs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that JPMs response to Mr Ws 
complaint, including the £30 compensation for the service issues Mr W had encountered, 
already represented a fair and reasonable outcome. Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that there isnt any reasonable evidence that JPM have paid 
less interest to Mr Ws account than they should have for the month in question. 
Im also satisfied that JPM have given a valid explanation to Mr W why the interest amount 
received was lower than he calculated should be the case. Specifically, because Mr W was 
basing his calculation as if the full amount of money which attracted the interest had been in 
his account for the entire month, when in fact that wasnt the case. 
Furthermore, I also feel that the £30 compensation JPM have already paid to Mr W in regard 
to the service issues he experienced already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to 
that aspect of Mr Ws complaint. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an amount considered fair by one person 
not considered as such by someone else. But given the full circumstances of this complaint, 
including that the £30 compensation is for the service issues of Mr Ws complaint only, that 
amount does fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I might have 
instructed JPM to pay, had they not already done so.
In arriving at this position Ive considered the obvious frustration and inconvenience that Mr 
W incurred here. But Ive also considered that while Mr W may have wanted the matter 
resolved quickly, and may have sent messages to JPM every day until he received a 
response from them, there doesnt appear to have been a pressing need for Mr W to have 
chased JPM so vigorously, given that if JPM did find in his favour an interest rebate to his 
account could have been completed at any time.
JPM acknowledge that they should have confirmed to Mr W sooner than the correct amount 
of interest had been paid to his account, and JPM have apologised to Mr W for this and 
made the compensation payment of £30 to him that they have. As explained, this feels fair 
and reasonable to me, and I feel that it fairly compensates Mr W for what took place here. 
And as such, I wont be instructing JPM to do anything more. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr W was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint. I hope Mr W will understand, given what Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman