DRN-3842226
The complaint
Mrs R complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) told her wrong 
information several times which resulted in her losing out on a companion voucher.
What happened
If Mrs R spent £12,000 on her AESEL credit card in a membership year she would be 
eligible for a companion voucher. Mrs R contacted AESEL on more than one occasion to 
enquire if she had met this threshold and she was told that she had. When she tried to claim 
the companion voucher, she was told she did not have a companion voucher. Mrs R made a 
complaint to AESEL.
AESEL partially upheld Mrs Rs complaint and they credited £100 in total to her account. 
They said that having listened to the telephone conversations she had with them, the call 
handlers she spoke to incorrectly advised her regarding the companion voucher, as they told 
her she had already qualified for it, but she hadnt. They also said that she was told she 
would receive a call back, but she didnt receive one as their back office staff dont provide 
call backs to customers. Mrs R brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mrs Rs complaint. He said due to the incorrect information 
and the service given to her, he said AESEL should pay her an additional £150. He said he 
was unable to recommend compensation to make up the cost of the companion voucher as 
Mrs R had not met the criteria to be eligible for it. Mrs R asked for an Ombudsman to review 
her complaint. She wanted a companion voucher to resolve her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call recordings that were available to me in relation to this issue. And Mrs 
R was told that she had met the threshold to be awarded the companion voucher on more 
than one occasion. So this set an expectation for her that she would have received this 
voucher. She was also told on the call where she raised her complaint that she had already 
earned a companion voucher, which was not correct. 
On this call she was told other incorrect information. The call handler also told Mrs R that 
she was on her way to earn another companion voucher and she told her the amount of 
spending she had towards another voucher. This should have been a red flag to the call 
handler that something was wrong here. I say this as her statement shows that only one 
companion voucher could be earned per each membership year. 
So Mrs R would not have been eligible for another companion voucher if she had already 
earned one. The call handler must have been looking at her correct spend at the time, but 
mistakenly thought she had already earned a voucher, so she incorrectly told her that she 
was so many points towards another voucher. In addition to this, she told Mrs R that their 
back office team would give her a call. But as AESEL have confirmed, they are unable to do 
this. So again, they had set an expectation for her which they didnt deliver on.
Ive considered that Mrs R feels strongly that she should be given a companion voucher due 
to being told she had already met the criteria. But Im not persuaded that this is 
proportionate. I say this because she was a considerable amount away from reaching the 
spending criteria of the voucher. And Mrs Rs credit card statement clearly shows the 
qualifying spend, how much she needed to spend to obtain the voucher and states that she 
is only eligible for one companion voucher per card membership year. 
Mrs R should have been aware she was a considerable amount away from obtaining the 
companion voucher, regardless of what the call handlers told her, based on the statement 
AESEL sent her each month. And Ive seen no evidence to say she wasnt receiving her 
statements and had contacted them about this. So I cant say it would be a fair outcome for 
her complaint to ask AESEL to give her a companion voucher in these circumstances.
But Im also persuaded that £100 compensation does not fully recognise the impact that the 
incorrect information would have had on Mrs R, especially as she was told incorrect 
information a number of times. Im satisfied that an extra £150, to total £250, would be fair 
and reasonable here. I say this as she would have been distressed to find out the 
information was incorrect. She would have been inconvenienced for waiting for a call back 
which never happened also. So it follows Ill be asking AESEL to put things right for Mrs R.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that AESEL pay Mrs R a further £150 compensation which I 
think is fair in the circumstances of this complaint as it would bring the total payment for 
distress and inconvenience to £250. Im persuaded this reflects the impact on Mrs R for 
AESEL giving her incorrect information on more than one occasion and not giving her a call 
back. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. American Express Services Europe Limited should pay Mrs R 
an extra £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman