DRN-3345733
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc made an entry about him on fraud protection 
databases in connection with a mortgage application he made.
What happened
Mr A applied, jointly with his father, to Santander for a mortgage. Santander declined the 
application. Some time later Mr A was offered employment, but it came to light at the 
post interview checks stage that Santander had also placed a marker on CIFAS about him. 
The job offer was withdrawn and Mr A complained to Santander. 
Mr A also applied for a subject access request to CIFAS. CIFAS told him that Santander had 
placed the marker on the file for unvalidated income declared on the mortgage application. 
The record set out the employer he had declared on the application. Mr A also discovered 
that Santander had also made an entry on another database, National Hunter  referring to 
employment details.
Mr A said that he had applied for the mortgage via a broker. Hed since obtained a copy of 
the application the broker had submitted, and he said the broker had mistakenly combined 
his and his fathers income together and reported it as Mr As income. He said this might 
explain why Santander wasnt able to verify his income.
Santander said that it had fairly applied the marker. It had concerns about the income that 
Mr A had declared on the application and it hadnt been able to verify what it had been told.
Our investigator didnt think that Santander had acted fairly, and asked it to remove the 
markers. Mr A was happy with that outcome. But Santander didnt agree, so the complaint 
comes to me for a final decision to be made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fraud protection databases used by the financial services industry are an important 
safeguard against fraud, and where a company reasonably suspects fraud its not 
unreasonable for it to share information with other firms to help prevent future fraud.
But there are significant consequences for individuals if markers are wrongly recorded 
against them. So the databases have a standard of proof that is required before a marker 
can be made. For example, CIFAS requires that its members only make a record where 
theres clear relevant and rigorous evidence of fraud such that a report could confidently be 
made to the police or other authorities (whether or not a report has actually been made). In 
other words, what is required is sufficient evidence to show a reasonable suspicion of fraud. 
And the other databases have a similar approach.
Ive borne that in mind when thinking about whether Santander acted fairly in this case. And 
Ive considered the evidence Santander has given us in light of that.
It seems that this application was flagged within Santander for further consideration. This led 
Santander to consider whether it was appropriate to treat this as a fraudulent application and 
to put markers on the databases.
Santander has explained that it tried to verify Mr As income as declared on the application. 
Mr A thought it might have got confused with his fathers income, but thats not in fact the 
case; the application correctly records what Mr A says it should have recorded.
Whenever a lender considers a mortgage application, it doesnt simply accept what its told 
at face value; it asks the applicant for supporting evidence, and it carries out its own checks 
to verify what its been told.
In this case, it seems that Santander was concerned that the employer Mr A declared didnt 
seem to have a significant online presence; that the income he had declared did not appear 
to be going into his Santander current account; and that when Santander tried to verify the 
income he had declared independently it was unable to do so.
CIFAS has given guidance to its members that a failure to verify income is not, of itself, 
sufficient to justify a marker  rather, it should be a prompt to carry out further investigation 
to determine whether theres a good reason for the failure to verify, or evidence that the 
income declared was false. 
A failure to verify may have a number of causes  some innocent, some fraudulent. It is not, 
of itself, sufficient evidence. 
While the employer Mr A declared may not have a significant online presence, it is registered 
on Companies House and according to its filings it is actively trading and has around 20 
employees. Not all companies  particularly small local companies in the commercial 
services sector  choose to have an active online presence.
Mr A has provided current account statements from another bank which do show his salary 
being paid in each month. Our investigator gave Santander copies of those statements to 
review but Santander merely reiterated that it hadnt been able to verify Mr As income.
Taking all that into account, Im not satisfied that Santander has provided enough evidence 
for me to conclude that it was fair to say the standard was met. Mr As income was unable to 
be verified, but the company exists and his bank statements from another bank show the 
salary being received. No further investigation of those matters appears to have been carried 
out to see whether there is an innocent explanation of the failure to verify or not.
Putting things right
It follows that I uphold this complaint. Our investigator agreed, and said that Santander 
should remove the markers. Mr A was happy with that outcome, and Im satisfied its fair in 
all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to remove all entries it has made about Mr A on external fraud databases 
in connection with this mortgage application.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman