DRN-3917324
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy with Cowen Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline her claim. 
What happened
Ms P was due to watch a concert and so she brought a coach ticket to get there. The 
concert was cancelled and so Ms P claimed on her policy with Cowen for her unused travel 
ticket, which cost £38. Shed like Cowen to cover her claim and refund the £2.50 she paid for 
the policy. 
Cowen said there wasnt any cover available in the circumstances. It said that Ms Ps policy 
listed the insured perils and her reason for claiming wasnt something that was covered. 
Our investigator said Cowen declined her claim fairly. He said the policy was specific and 
that her reason for cancelling wasnt listed within the policy. But Ms P disagreed and said 
there were exceptional circumstances that meant she was unable to attend. She explained 
that the concert was cancelled as a mark of respect to the late Queen and, therefore, she 
thinks Cowen should make an exception in the circumstances. And so, its for me to make a 
final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive also decided not to uphold it and for the same reasons explained by our 
investigator. Having carefully reviewed the terms of Ms Ps policy, Im satisfied theres no 
cover for these particular circumstances which have brought about her claim. So, Im 
satisfied Cowen has declined her claim fairly because its done so in line with the policy 
terms. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say;
Well pay up to the limits specified in your certificate, for unused coach fares, which have 
been paid or are contracted to be paid (including deposits you have already paid), if you 
have to reasonably, necessarily and unavoidably cancel your trip before it starts as a result 
of any of the following:
*Death, injury, illness of you, a travel companion or a close relative.
*Involuntary unemployment of you or your travel companion (a letter is required from
your employer). This cover would not apply if you are self-employed or accept
voluntary redundancy.
*Your home or your travel companions home suffers serious damage by fire, burglary, storm 
or flood in the seven days prior to the start date of your trip or during your trip.
*The police require your presence because your home, or your travel companions home or 
place of work, has been burgled.
*You are called for jury service or as a witness in a court which you were unaware of at the   
time of booking.
Cowens policy is specific about the insured perils that are covered. That means that unless 
its listed within the reasons for cancellation, its not considered an insurable event. I 
understand Ms Ps arguments about her reasons being exceptional, but Im not persuaded 
by them. I say that because this policy wasnt sold in conjunction with the concert ticket. And 
so, simply because the concert was cancelled, doesnt automatically mean her claim for her 
unused train ticket should be paid for the reason she gave. I consider this to be a 
disinclination to travel on Ms Ps part, rather than an issue with the coach company being 
able to provide transport.  The coach company provided a ticket for travel which could have 
still been used as its not linked to her intended event. 
Ms P suggested our investigator should persuade Cowen to use its discretion here and pay 
her claim, but the key word here is discretion  its for Cowen to decide whether to do this. I 
say that because it remains part of Cowens commercial remit and not for the ombudsman to 
direct it to exercise its commercial discretion in these particular circumstances. And so, 
because I think Cowen declined Ms Ps claim in line with its policy terms, I dont think its 
made a mistake or treated Ms P unfairly.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman