DRN-4455656
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund the money he paid 
for services he didnt receive.
What happened
On 15 July 2022, Mr D made a mobile banking transfer of £220 to a company (that Ill call 
C). C was due to provide accommodation over four nights at an overseas event in July 2023. 
On 26 June 2023, C emailed Mr D to explain it had ceased trading and it was unable to offer 
a refund for the services it could no longer provide. It suggested an alternative 
accommodation provider that it said it had no links to, to source different accommodation at 
a further fee.
Mr D contacted RBS on 26 June as he felt hed been scammed. RBS scam team 
considered Mr Ds claim but said it was the subject of a civil matter  a buyer-seller dispute 
between Mr D and C. This is because C was still trading and was refusing to fulfil the 
services paid for, which RBS said didnt amount to evidence of fraud. It suggested Mr D 
contact Trading Standards and could pursue the matter through the courts. 
Mr D was unhappy with RBS response as he firmly believes hes been scammed. He noted 
he had to raise his complaint three times without acknowledgment, he was given conflicting 
information by RBS, and he was transferred through to the scam team who ultimately 
couldnt help.
When RBS considered Mr Ds complaint it maintained the response of the scam team, but it 
apologised for the service issues Mr D complained about. RBS said it acted in accordance 
with Mr Ds payment instruction and had no reason to refuse the payment.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. They 
considered Mr Ds claim to be the subject of a civil dispute between him and C because it 
was likely C was a legitimate business when Mr D made his payment to C. 
Mr D didnt accept this outcome. He said:
- Its obvious that C turned fraudulent because it waited until the last moment to 
declare itself unable to provide the services paid for. A genuine company would try to 
offer the service or refund what they could, which C did not. 
- The definition of fraud being used to assess his claim is vague and subjective. He 
thinks his case meets the definition of fraud outlined in the Fraud Act 2006. 
- RBS didnt clearly inform him it was a civil matter which prejudiced his ability to 
pursue a civil case. The bank said it would be able to contact the beneficiary bank on 
his behalf. This delayed civil options and reduced the likelihood of him being able to 
recover any funds.
- Hes suffered emotional distress due to being the victim of fraud and feels there is no 
protection for consumers. 
As no agreement could be reached, this case was passed to me for a decision to be issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be 
good industry practice at the time.
I understand Mr D has strong feelings about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
carefully considered all of the points hes raised throughout the investigation, as well as the 
evidence provided by him and RBS. However, my decision focuses on what I consider to be 
the key issues of the complaint. Whilst I may not make direct reference to every single point 
raised, I have taken these into account. My role is to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, which is what Ive done.
Its also important to remember that my role here is to consider whether RBS has acted fairly 
and reasonably  not C. 
Its not in dispute that Mr D made the payment himself. So, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) Mr D is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. But 
RBS is a signatory of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, under which the 
starting position is that a customer who has fallen victim to an authorised push payment 
(APP) scam should be reimbursed. 
However, the CRM Code doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received 
them, they are defective in some way, or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the 
supplier.
The CRM Code would only apply if Mr D had fallen victim to an APP scam, which is defined 
under the CRM Code as: 
a transfer of funds executed across Faster Paymentswhere:
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed 
were legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
Theres no dispute that Mr D intended to transfer the funds to C, so (i) doesnt apply. For (ii) 
to be relevant, Id need to be reasonably satisfied from the evidence that C intended to 
deceive Mr D by acting fraudulently. 
Mr D has referred to the definition of fraud in the Fraud Act 2006. However, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the courts and so the test here is not 
necessarily whether C could be convicted of fraud in a court of law. Fraud also isnt defined 
in the CRM Code, but an ordinary meaning is something done or obtained through (usually) 
criminal deception.Whilst I know this will disappoint Mr D, I agree with our Investigator that C was most likely 
operating as a legitimate business at the time Mr D transacted with it. And it later fell into 
difficulties rendering it unable to provide the services Mr D paid for.
At the time Mr D made the payment, C was registered at Companies House and had been 
since 2008. The described nature of the business is a true reflection of the type of services C 
was offering. Companies House records show a voluntary application to strike the company 
off the register and be dissolved in October 2023, which was later suspended. But this 
suggests C was due to cease trading. 
There are also a number of media publications concerning Cs closure. Some of these 
publications suggest C was operating as a legitimate business before it fell into financial 
difficulties. And reviews about C in the public domain which are both positive and negative, 
support C was providing such services over multiple years, with many reviews left by repeat 
customers. So Im not persuaded C was set up entirely to defraud people such as Mr D. 
C also proactively contacted Mr D almost a year after hed paid C, to confirm it wouldnt be 
able to supply the services paid for. This is not typically the case with a fraudster, who more 
often than not is uncontactable shortly after taking the victims money. 
There are a number of reasons why C might not have been able to provide the services 
Mr D paid for or give a refund. Mr D made the payment in July 2022, and it was almost a 
whole year later when C confirmed it was unable to fulfil the services paid for. Its not my role 
to determine the exact reason C was unable to supply the services Mr D paid for, or why C 
failed as a business. Unfortunately businesses can operate poorly or be mismanaged such 
that contracts are breached and agreed goods or services arent provided. But that doesnt 
necessarily amount to evidence of an intent to defraud. 
Overall, having considered the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint, I consider it is about a 
civil dispute and not a scam. So RBS hasnt acted unreasonably or unfairly in declining to 
assess his claim under the CRM Code.
Turning to the points raised about customer service, Ive listened to the calls Mr D made to 
RBS to raise his dispute. Having done so, Im satisfied RBS made no promises of 
reimbursement nor did it confirm it was treating Mr Ds case as a valid scam claim. In the 
first call they said they will see if they can try to recoup Mr Ds funds. And in the second call 
the advisor said they would put Mr D through to the scam team to get a scam case opened 
for him and look at getting Mr Ds money back. I dont think the language used within these 
calls gave the impression reimbursement was mandatory or even likely. Many banks also 
have specialist teams like a scam team who would be best placed to assess the outcome of 
any potential scam claim raised. So I dont think it was wrong to put Mr D through to the 
scam team and later decide it was a civil dispute. 
When Mr D spoke to the scam team, it confirmed it would not treat his claim as a scam 
because the company was still trading, and it referred Mr D to Trading Standards. I dont 
think this prejudiced Mr Ds ability to pursue a civil case or recover funds. RBS is also not 
obliged or entitled to recover funds sent by bank transfer which are subject to a civil dispute. 
It would only be expected to do so, had the funds been sent as the result of an APP scam, 
and even then, recovery is not guaranteed. So, RBS hasnt made an error in not attempting 
to recover Mr Ds funds. Overall, I dont consider any compensation is due for the service 
issues raised by Mr D.
  
Im sorry that Mr D has lost this money, and I appreciate how helpless he may feel when 
making further similar bookings with other companies. Mr D may choose to pay by card in 
the future as this offers greater protection when things go wrong with legitimate purchases. 
However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think RBS has acted unfairly in declining his claim. The evidence supports C was a legitimate business which fell on hard times and 
subsequently was unable to meet its obligations to its customers, like Mr D. I cant fairly 
conclude, with any certainty, that C set out with an intent to defraud Mr D. As this case does 
not meet the definition of an APP scam, it doesnt fall under the scope of the CRM Code so 
there are no reasonable grounds for asking RBS to refund Mr Ds loss. I also cant fairly hold 
RBS responsible for the distress Mr D has suffered as a result of Cs actions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Meghan Gilligan
Ombudsman