DRN-1525126
 
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Nationwide Building Societys error when processing an account 
switch to another bank.
What happened
Mr N set up an account switch from his sole Nationwide account which was due to take 
place on 29 July 2019. The following day, he called the bank hed switched into and was told 
his Nationwide account had been overdrawn so no funds had been transferred.  Mr N called 
Nationwide the same day, who confirmed there had been a technical error which reported 
his account as overdrawn when it was in fact in credit. They transferred the funds manually 
the same day to rectify the error.
Mr N then received a letter from Nationwide after the switch had been completed stating his 
account was overdrawn. Mr N was unhappy with this so raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded upholding Mr Ns complaint. They agreed there had been a technical 
error which reported his account as overdrawn on the day of the intended switch. Because of 
this, a letter had been generated which was held and sent at a later date which they 
apologised for. They made a payment of £150 to Mr N to recognise any inconvenience hed 
been caused by their error. Mr N was unhappy with this amount as his wife had been offered 
a higher amount separately for the same issue. So, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed Nationwide had made an error with 
both the switch and sending the letter. But she thought the £150 Nationwide awarded was 
fair to recognise the trouble and upset Mr N himself had experienced. So, she didnt think 
Nationwide needed to take any further action. Mr N was unhappy with this, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold the 
complaint for the broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Its not in dispute that Nationwide made an error when switching Mr Ns account. Ive seen 
evidence to show it was a result of a technical failure which Nationwide have confirmed they 
are aware of and in the process of resolving. This is supported by the fact Mr Ns wife 
encountered the same error when switching from her own sole account. Nationwide have 
also admitted the letter Mr N received shouldnt have been sent. So, Ive focused on the 
impact of these errors and whether the £150 Nationwide offered was fair to recognise this. 
And I think it is.
Before I explain why I think the offer is fair, I want to recognise that Mr Ns wife encountered 
the same error when switching from her own sole Nationwide account. Nationwide offered Mr Ns wife a higher amount to resolve her complaint and Mr N thinks this is unfair and 
wants this to be considered as part of my decision. 
But, although Mr N and his wife were both switching into a new joint account from 
Nationwide, they were both switching from individual accounts. So, any errors they 
encountered during this switch must be considered separately. Because of this, I wont be 
considering Nationwides handling of his wifes complaint. My decision has focused solely on 
the circumstances of Mr Ns complaint and the upset Nationwides errors have caused.
I think Mr N being informed no funds were transferred due to him being as reported 
overdrawn wouldve caused worry and embarrassment. This meant Mr N had spend time on 
the phone notifying Nationwide of their error which wouldve been inconvenient. So, I think 
the initial error impacted Mr N and a payment should be made to recognise that. That being 
said, I think Nationwide acted promptly to resolve the issue once they were made aware, 
meaning they were able to minimise the delay in completing the switch to one day. 
But I wouldve expected Nationwide to realise at that point that a letter wouldve been 
automatically generated notifying Mr N he was overdrawn. Id then expect them to take steps 
to ensure it wasnt sent. They didnt do this. So, Mr N received a notice telling him again he 
was overdrawn when this wasnt the case. This wouldve worried Mr N and caused him 
unnecessary stress as he attempted to confirm the letter had been sent in error. 
When considering both errors together, I think it wouldve been frustrating for Mr N to be told 
the same incorrect information twice, especially when hed already made attempts to resolve 
it on the first occasion. And a payment should be made to recognise it. On this occasion, I 
think the £150 is a fair and reasonable offer and in line with what I would have decided. So, I 
dont think Nationwide need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman