DRN-3870334
The complaint
Mr P complains that Zopa Limited (Zopa) irresponsibly granted him a credit card he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr P entered into an agreement with Zopa to have access to credit by way of a 
credit card account. He was given a credit limit of £500. There were no credit limit increases. 
Mr P says that Zopa didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
account. He says he was already struggling financially at the time because he was gambling 
and borrowing money from elsewhere. 
Zopa didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to 
check Mr Ps financial circumstances before granting him the credit card account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that Zopa carried out 
proportionate checks when granting Mr P the opening credit.  
As Mr P didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zopa will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before opening the account, I think Zopa gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr P about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed credit and 
affordability checks which showed no significant adverse information. Zopa also relied on 
Mr Ps declared income of £37,500 and an allowance of £325 for housing costs. It then 
verified this information using credit reference agency data. However, just because I think it 
carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending 
decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Zopa gathered. Having done so Im satisfied that 
the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to 
Mr P. I say this because the checks showed that Mr P was paying several loans, totalling 
around £2,800 and also a number of credit cards, totalling around £1,400. From what Ive 
seen, this borrowing appeared to have been managed well with no evidence of Mr P having 
got into recent financial difficulties by way of adverse markers on his credit file or county 
court judgments. 
Mr P says he was making use of payday loans and gambling heavily at the time. I can see 
that Mr P he took out three loans  two of them short term - in the months leading up to 
taking out the card. Ive also seen from the bank statements Mr P sent us that he was 
making use of gambling sites. But that wouldnt have been apparent to Zopa at the time as 
something affecting Mr Ps overall financial situation. I therefore dont consider that it was 
unreasonable for Zopa to grant the relatively modest opening credit limit that it did.
It follows that, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr P on this occasion, I dont think Zopa acted 
unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman