DRN-3039852
The complaint
Miss K complains about the service she received from her adviser, an appointed 
representative of Openwork Limited, referred to as the business. 
She says shes suffered a financial loss as result.  
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Hes seen no evidence of a mortgage being discussed with the adviser. The business 
has no idea about this either, apart from being aware that Miss K managed to get a 
mortgage through a different business. 
Mortgage deals can differ between lenders and brokers. Theres nothing to say that 
the business did anything wrong in this case. 
Miss K says that a Venture Capital Trust (VCT) with Foresight  and subsequently 
another VCT with Amati  was opened by her adviser, only because she reminded 
him at the last minute, even though it was his responsibility. 
Whilst she may have had to chase things up  although theres no evidence that she 
did  the investment was completed in time and there was no financial loss to her. In 
the circumstances Miss K isnt entitled to any compensation. 
Miss K says she made her adviser aware of an AXA stocks and shares ISA a few 
years ago, which was in her late mothers name and lost its tax wrapper upon her 
death. But instead of checking, her adviser did nothing. She feels it couldve been put 
in an ISA sooner, without incurring Capital Gains Tax (CGT). Her current adviser 
transferred it into another ISA (tax year ending 2019) and she incurred £500 CGT, 
which she insists couldve been avoided. 
Despite what Miss K says, an ISA cant be transferred from one person to another, 
and upon death an ISA loses its tax-free status and the proceeds will form part of an 
estate. 
Miss K says she has a company for her commercial assets that she believes the 
business wasnt aware of, until she spoke to her adviser (about a year ago). She was 
then advised to open a pension fund which she was told would save corporation tax. 
She relied on the adviser to do the same again (in 2018) but the adviser never got 
back to her. 
Her new IFA and accountant say it was a clear-cut way to save tax, but again this 
was done in a rush, and she nearly missed the deadline. The adviser couldve 
advised her to do the same for the tax year before  and she couldve saved £1,000 
corporation tax  but the business didnt know her company existed. 
Despite what Miss K says, the adviser offered advice based on the information made 
available. It wouldve been for Miss K to provide the correct information in relation to 
her company. 
Miss K asked a staff member to withdraw some money from her Zurich platform, as 
she wanted to make a new investment. She says that she was told that the 
investment had been stable for the last six months. So, Miss K withdrew her money 
but lost £500 because the share value reduced over the weekend. 
If Miss K wanted advice and/or was concerned if it was the right time to withdraw 
funds from her investment she couldve waited to speak to an adviser. 
The investigator isnt persuaded that the admin staff member has provided financial 
advice or did anything wrong by carrying out her instructions. 
He wouldnt expect Miss Ks adviser to be available all the time/throughout the 
weekend, so it wasnt unreasonable for her to wait if she wanted to speak to the 
adviser.  
Miss Ks grateful that she earned £700, twice, from the pension fund. But questions 
why this wasnt done sooner. She missed two years worth of this income. Her new 
IFA advised that she couldve put in more than £2,800. She may have invested more 
if she was aware that she had liquid cash in her possession.  
Having looked at the fact find its clear that Miss K didnt want to discuss pensions so 
in the circumstances he wouldnt expect the adviser to discuss this issue further. 
The business has offered to pay Miss K £200 compensation for the delay in 
responding to her complaint. Because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, 
hes unable to comment upon this further.  
Miss K disagreed with the investigators view. She was surprised that she wasnt asked 
about her side of the story before the view was issued, and after some discussion with the 
investigator, she asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Having spoken with her new IFA  who also disagrees with the investigators view  in 
summary, Miss K made the following key points:
She was advised to put in a greater deposit to secure a loan to purchase a property. 
She feels that the adviser couldnt be bothered to find/negotiate a better deal with the 
lender at the time. She found a different broker herself that found her a better deal  
even though for unconnected reasons the deal didnt go through. Nevertheless, the 
advisers behavior caused her stress and delays.  
In relation to the VCTs, the adviser didnt contact her as arranged. It was only after 
she chased the business that it was set up with, just before the end of the tax year. 
She disclosed her mothers ISA to the adviser. It was lower in value at the time. Had 
the adviser advised her to transfer the ISA into her name she wouldnt have had to 
pay CGT.   
Her company was setup by her accountant for her assets. Shes aware that the 
relationship with an adviser is a two-way process, and she always provided her 
adviser with information and updates. But he was out of the office a lot  visiting his 
ailing father  and she was left to deal with his junior. This resulted in no tax savings 
and wouldve resulted in huge losses, had it not been for the actions of her 
accountant. 
In relation to her withdrawing money to invest elsewhere, she didnt desperately need 
this money, she was trying to make a better investment. But, with her adviser 
unavailable, it had become a joke.  
The adviser only mentioned pensions, briefly, but didnt mention this particular 
product that she feels shes missed out on for two consecutive years. The income 
pension in question had a guaranteed yield. The IFA only mentioned £2,800 but 
didnt mention she couldve invested more money and received higher returns as a 
result. 
Shes discussed matters with her new IFA, and maintains the main issues are that 
her adviser was: quite apathetic, out visiting his father and often dithered on 
decisions that were clearly beneficial. Her new IFA knows about all her assets and 
regularly keeps in touch unlike her adviser. 
Miss K wants to claim the following redress: £1,000 to mark the £500 CGT paid, and the distress an inconvenience 
caused by having to obtain advice and invest in another ISA.
£1,000 to mark the £500 lost almost overnight, due to the wrong 
advice being provided by the wrong person and the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Up to £5,000 for providing poor advice in relation to her income 
pension. 
£200 for the stress incurred dealing with her VCTs. 
The business made the following observations:
In response to the investigators view, Miss K raised the same/similar points as her 
original complaint. 
Its attached the advisers original response as well as evidence of attempts made by 
the busines to contact Miss K to arrange an annual review. 
The adviser explained that hed tried to obtain further information about Miss Ks 
circumstances and financial arrangements, however, she wasnt forthcoming about 
all aspects of this and didnt want to share all the details.  
The adviser has taken calls from Miss K at weekends and late at night and feels very 
disappointed about the allegations made by her. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss K says, Im unable to safely 
say that the busines behaved unreasonably in relation to the specific complaint points 
raised. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Miss Ks strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. 
Nevertheless, Ive endeavoured to address each of Miss Ks pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Miss K and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.Im aware that Miss K is now with a new IFA and thats shes made some changes to her 
investments. But these relatively recent changes  considering her circumstances  dont 
automatically mean that the business behaved unreasonably in the past. I also appreciate 
its possible that Miss Ks new IFA mightve done things differently to her adviser, but that 
also doesnt mean the business behaved unreasonably. 
Based on what the busines says, Im aware that Miss K was the advisers client since 2014 
during which time shes been advised on several mortgages and investments, so has had a 
reasonably lengthy relationship with him.   
I note Miss K has made several specific complaint points about a range of investments 
during this time. In the circumstances, I think its reasonable to address those points 
individually. 
In terms of the mortgage issue, its not entirely clear what happened. But based on what 
Miss K says, it seems that she found a better deal through a third-party business  because 
she wasnt happy with the terms on offer  which I believe was her prerogative. 
I understand that  for unconnected reasons  the sale of the property didnt go through, so 
the new deal didnt make a difference in the end. But none of this means that the adviser is 
at fault. Mortgage deals differ between lenders and brokers and Miss K was at liberty to 
accept or reject the offer and go elsewhere, which is what she did. In the circumstances I 
cant uphold the complaint about this. 
I appreciate what Miss K says about the VCTs, but whether (or not) she had to chase up the 
business to complete the investments, they were in the end successfully completed, in time, 
and shes not suffered a financial loss. Therefore, I cant award redress based on potential 
financial loss. In other words, I cant award redress for loss that hasnt materialised and isnt 
likely to. 
I also cant safely say that but for Miss Ks actions, the investment wouldnt have been set 
up. If shed chased her adviser and hed failed to set up her investment  resulting in a 
financial loss  Id decide the case differently. But thats not what Im dealing with in this 
instance.
Based on what Miss K says, I note her new IFA advised her to transfer her mothers ISA  
and she incurred a £500 CGT liability as a result  but in this case I cant comment on the 
actions of her new IFA. 
I note the investigator explained that an ISA cant be transferred from one person to another 
and nor can the tax-free status, so this will generally form a part of a persons estate or 
assets upon transfer. The situation is different for transfers between spouses, but that 
obviously doesnt apply here. Im aware that Miss K accepts that the product was worth more 
money when she transferred it, but in the circumstances, I cant blame the business for the 
ISA doing well resulting in a CGT liability. 
With regards to Miss Ks company and corporation tax I agree with the investigator that a 
business can only advise based on the information provided. Its not for a business to 
speculate or second guess a consumers assets or financial circumstances, and offer advice 
based on a hypothetical situation  that would almost certainly lead to unsuitable advice. 
If Miss K failed to provide information in relation to a company that she owned, its not 
something I can blame the business for. I note the business maintains that she wasnt forthcoming about her full financial circumstances and didnt want it all being considered as 
part of this advice. 
I appreciate the other points Miss K makes about her pension fund and corporation tax. But 
if she didnt want to discuss pensions at the time, as appears to be the case, I cant blame 
the business for not pursuing this course of action sooner. This might explain why the 
subject was probably touched upon a couple of times by the adviser  as explained by Miss 
K  but not pursued any sooner. I cant see any reason why an adviser wouldnt have 
facilitated a pension fund, if thats something Miss K was interested in from the outset.  
In answer to Miss Ks question, the IFA probably didnt mention this specific product later 
because of the earlier discussions with her and until it was appropriate. I also note Miss K 
says she mightve invested more money into this, but this isnt a reason to uphold this 
complaint. On balance, Im satisfied that as soon as the business was made aware of Miss 
Ks company it provided advice with regards to her corporation tax.  
In relation to the withdrawal, Im satisfied that the business did what it was asked to do. I 
note Miss K says I requested the employee (name anonymised) to take money from my 
Zurich platform as I wanted to make an investment.  He responded that it had remained 
stable for about 6 months. This was all taken out and I lost £500 as the share value had 
reduced over the weekend. I do know that one cannot foresee movement on the stock 
market I may have re considered if you had been there to advise, or done it in a more 
measured way and avoided losses. 
On balance, Im satisfied that Miss K, of her own free-will and without seeking/receiving 
financial advice, decided to withdraw funds from her investment to invest elsewhere. Im 
mindful she says she didnt desperately need the money but wanted to make a better 
investment. In the circumstances, I cant blame the business for not stopping her from doing 
something she clearly wanted to do. 
If Miss K failed to carry out her own due diligence and/or seek financial advice, its not 
something I can blame the business for. Miss K is entitled to do what she wants with her 
money. It seems she took a chance with wanting to invest somewhere better, and perhaps it 
didnt pay off in the way she envisaged. I cant blame the business for this. I appreciate the 
investment appeared to be doing well, but past performance was no guarantee that it would 
stay the same.   
If Miss K wanted to speak to an adviser and/or seek financial advice  about whether (or not) 
it was the right time to withdraw funds  she couldve made this clear to the business from 
the outset. Despite what Miss K says, Im not persuaded that the staff members actions 
amounted to advice.  
The above notwithstanding, theres no reason why admin staff cant generally deal with a 
customers request to make a withdrawal. If there was some internal discrepancy in this 
instance, on balance, given what Ive said above, its not a reason to uphold this complaint.  
I note Miss K says her adviser is incompetent and the delays on this occasion couldve 
resulted in huge losses, had she not acted on her accountants advice. But despite what she 
says and feels, Im not persuaded that shes suffered an actual financial loss.  
The business has offered Miss K £200 compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused by its complaint handling. Because Im not upholding this complaint this isnt a sum 
that I can ask the business to pay. However, Id generally expect it to do so in the 
circumstances. I appreciate Miss K will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint and give Miss K what she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman