DRN-2429497
The complaint
Mr T complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim on his home 
insurance policy.
Although other businesses acted as agents for AXA, Ill only refer to AXA in my decision. 
  
What happened
Mr T contacted AXA on 18 February 2020 to make a claim for damage to his conservatory 
following recent storms.
AXA inspected the damage on 21 February 2020. The report they produced after that visit 
concluded that the damage was partly consistent with storm damage. But it also said that 
due to bad building practice, the damage was worse than it shouldve been. It also 
concluded that the conservatory was now unsafe. 
 
AXA declined the claim. They said the main cause of the damage was poor workmanship. 
Given hed been told it was unsafe, Mr T contacted a local builder to have the conservatory 
taken down.
But when Mr Ts builder inspected the conservatory he didnt agree with AXAs report 
findings. At this point Mr T started to question AXAs decision and made a complaint.
AXA didnt uphold his complaint. They said theyd been right to decline the claim on the 
basis of poor workmanship.
Mr T didnt agree. So he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his 
complaint. He felt that on the balance of probability Mr Ts builders statement was more 
persuasive than AXAs inspectors. So he upheld the complaint. And recommended that AXA 
should settle the claim in line with the rest of the terms and conditions of the policy.
AXA didnt agree. They asked for an opinion from an expert in these issues. He said there 
were many structural failings in the build of the conservatory.
As no agreement could be reached, Mr Ts complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having looked at all the evidence Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Several parties have provided evidence about the condition of the conservatory. Ive 
considered everything each of the parties has said in making my decision. 
Mr T believes that the damage to his conservatory was caused by a storm. He thinks its 
unfair of AXA to say the damage is due to poor workmanship and decline his claim on that 
basis. 
For storm damage under home insurance to be covered, firstly the policyholder has to show 
that the damage was caused by a one-off incident of storm. All parties accept that there 
were storm conditions around the time of the damage. 
It must also be shown that the storm was the dominant cause of the damage. Its for the 
consumer to show that there was damage caused to his property which is covered under the 
policy. 
Mr T has said Since the day I moved into the property it has withstood many storms and I 
have never had so much as a leak.
His builder inspected the conservatory for the first time on 20 February 2020. He said:
The whole structure was twisted and fixings had been torn out because of the gusts of 
wind. He told Mr T to inform his insurance company immediately. 
AXAs inspectors produced a report dated 21 February 2020. The report stated that the 
damage was part consistent with storm damage. But it also gave examples of what it called 
bad building practice. It said the following:
Attended site and can confirm the damage is part consistent with storm damage. Damage 
has been reported to the conservatory roof which has collapsed following recent storm.
Entire conservatory has twisted and collapsed, this has been caused as a result of the 
storm, however there is a lot of bad building practice which has made the damage as severe 
as it has. 
The conservatory has been cladded over and a false ceiling has been placed inside to 
create the warm roof effect. These types of roofs are not built to have the added weight of 
the clad overs and false ceilings, in order to achieve this timbers are screwed into the main 
roof bars, this weakens the roof system as a whole making vulnerable and less structurally 
sound. The frames are twisted and the conservatory has now started to come away from the 
house wall. This structure is now unsafe and needs to be stripped back to the base 
brickwork and re built with new, the removal is something that needs completing ASAP by 
health and safety experts to ensure taken down with case and not to cause further damage.
Mr T asked his builder to inspect the conservatory for a second time after his claim had been 
declined. After that second inspection the builder concluded that:
The corner bars measuring 2.4m is fitted with a strengthener as per good practice 
guidelines. On one photo you can see where the gust of wind was strong enough to remove 
the fixings therefore allowing the roof drops to drop.
The internal suspended ceiling was a lightweight tile measuring 600mm x 600mm and on 
inspection I found that the main T bars were fitted on 600mm centers thus spanning the 
complete width of the conservatory fitted with 600mm cross Ts on 600mm centers. No 
fixings were into the roof system apart from the one I did on my first visit. The tile used were 
Celotex 25mm with a weight of 0.85k9/m2. The ceiling was fitted with 4 no spotlights. In 
conclusion, he said: Its my honest opinion the damage to the conservatory was caused by 
very unusual weather conditions and had nothing to do with bad workmanship.
 
Mr Ts builders assessment of the damage indicated that it was caused by the storm. And 
he didnt agree with the information in AXAs inspectors report. 
Ive considered the evidence regarding the damage to the conservatory. AXAs inspectors 
concluded that the storm had highlighted existing problems with poor workmanship. They 
said the damage wouldnt have been as bad if the false ceiling hadnt been installed. They 
said that conservatories like this one arent designed to have false ceilings installed. ButI dont agree. The installation of false ceilings is possible for conservatories like this one. And 
while they can cause structural issues, if theyre properly installed theres almost no impact 
to the structure of the roof.
AXAs inspectors report also states that in order to achieve a false ceiling timbers are 
screwed into the main roof bars. But Mr Ts builder noted that nothing had been screwed into 
the roof system apart from the one I did on my first visit to make the conservatory safe
after the storm damage. 
Taking both reports into account, Im persuaded that the false ceiling was installed in a way 
which didnt affect the structural integrity of the roof.
Where we have conflicting expert evidence, we consider the content of the reports, the 
qualifications and experience of the writers and which of the accounts is more persuasive. 
Having carefully considered the two accounts of the damage, on balance of probability, I find 
the one from Mr Ts builder is more persuasive. But I also need to take into account further 
information that AXA provided after our investigator issued his view.
Following our investigators view, AXA asked another expert to look into the damage. He 
said: the deciding factor in the structural failure of the roof is clearly wear and tear of the 
roof due to age, and inadequate roofing system, no structural support to the roofing system, 
and additional weight on the inside, it was clearly only a matter of time before this failure 
happened, and no single act of weather has caused this failure, but an accumulation off all 
the above factors and high winds could of contributed in the final failing of the structure, but 
any roof should be able to maintain its structure during any weather.
He said the claim should have been repudiated as wear and tear. He also said he strongly 
disagreed with Mr Ts builders report which said that the poor weather had caused the 
damage. 
Our investigator asked AXAs expert a series of in-depth questions about his conclusions. 
He answered those in great detail. And he summed up the cause of the damage as follows:
in my professional opinion the reason for this failure is down to the wear and tear of the 
roof. He then linked the wear and tear to aspects of poor workmanship. And said he felt that 
collapse was inevitable from the method of construction.  
It should be noted that AXAs expert didnt get the chance to inspect the roof himself, as itd 
already been taken down. 
Neither of the reports from the people who did inspect the conservatory mention wear and 
tear. I have much more confidence in the reports produced by the people who actually 
inspected the conservatory, rather than just reviewed photos after the event.
AXAs final response letter to Mr T confirmed the claim had been declined on the basis of 
poor workmanship, not wear and tear. I havent seen enough evidence to confirm that poor 
workmanship caused the damage to the conservatory. And there is no mention of wear and 
tear in either of the inspection reports.
I note that no more inspections are possible. Mr T reasonably took the conservatory down 
when told it was unsafe. 
In summary, there was no mention of gradual deterioration or wear and tear in the inspection 
reports. AXA cant expect to bring in new arguments months after the claim was made 
unless theres supporting evidence for those arguments in the initial reports. I noted above that I found Mr Ts builders report more persuasive. So I consider that AXA 
acted unfairly when they declined the claim due to poor workmanship. 
Putting things right
I require AXA to settle the claim in line with the rest of the terms and conditions of Mr Ts 
policy.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to settle the claim in line with the rest of the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman