DRN-3754000
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc 
closed one of its bank accounts.
Miss O brings the complaint on Rs behalf. 
What happened
Miss O told us:
Up until March 2020, R received regular statements for the bank account at the 
centre of this dispute. No further statements arrived after March 2020  and nor did 
any other correspondence. R did not receive any notification of an account closure.
Towards the end of 2020 Rs accountant asked for three months of statements from 
Rs NatWest Business Reserve account. She contacted NatWest by phone, only to 
be told that NatWest could not trace the account at all. That was extremely worrying 
given that the account contained over £150,000.
After speaking to several different members of NatWests staff, she finally discovered 
that the bank considered the account to be dormant.
NatWest told her that the matter could not be resolved over the phone, and she and 
a director would have to go into a branch. This was during the height of the 
pandemic, and the director was clinically vulnerable. They did as NatWest asked and 
made a branch visit, only to be told the branch staff could not help.
NatWest eventually provided Rs directors with forms to reclaim the money in the 
account, but then said the form it had given them was the wrong form. There were 
later difficulties with NatWest saying they had filled out forms incorrectly  but it 
turned out that was because Rs directors had left the sections relating to charities 
and public limited companies blank. R is neither a charity nor a public limited 
company, so those sections were not applicable.
NatWest did eventually return Rs money, but only after she had Rs directors had 
spoken with well over 20 different NatWest staff members, been given the wrong 
information on multiple occasions, made entirely unnecessary branch visits, and 
overall received abysmal service.
The compensation NatWest has offered  initially £300, then later increased to £400 
 in no way reflects the time it has taken for R to resolve the matter, and does 
nothing to address Rs financial losses. In addition, NatWest has not even explained 
how it has calculated that figure.
NatWest told us:
The account became dormant because there were no transactions on it for a period 
of five years. Interest was added to the account, but there were no other payments 
into the account and no withdrawals.
Once an account becomes dormant, its process is to write to its customer and 
provide options to retain the account, close the account, or transfer to an alternative 
product. If it does not receive a response to its letter, it will close the account.
It is very sorry that R was not notified that the account had become dormant. Its 
records show that it did send a dormancy notification to R, but it accepts that Rs 
representatives have not been able to trace that notification.
It has since released the balance of the account to R, and it has also paid interest 
from the date of dormancy to the date of reclaim. However, it accepts that R received 
very poor service from the bank, and it fully appreciates Rs directors dismay at the 
situation.
Overall, it considers that a payment of £400 represents fair compensation for its poor 
customer service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. Briefly, he said:
He didnt know what had happened to the dormancy notification, but he accepted that 
R did not receive it. He thought that if R had received the notice, Rs directors would 
have acted immediately.
He thought NatWest was entitled to close Rs account due to dormancy, but he 
agreed that its subsequent customer service had been poor. It should have been 
much easier for R to reclaim its money.
However, he didnt think R had suffered any financial loss as a result of NatWests 
customer service errors. He accepted that the income R had received from Miss Os 
work had been lower in November 2020 than it had been in November 2019, but he 
didnt think that was sufficient to show that NatWests poor service had directly led to 
a loss for R. He thought there were numerous other factors that might account for the 
variability in Rs income.
He understood that Rs directors and employees were distressed, particularly when 
NatWest told them it could find no trace of Rs money, but the complainant here is R 
rather than its directors or employees. As a limited company (rather than a natural 
person) R is not capable of suffering distress, and so the Financial Ombudsman 
Service cannot make an award to compensate R for distress or suffering.
We can make an award for the inconvenience R has suffered, but he thought the 
offer NatWest had already made was fair in the circumstances.
Miss O did not agree with our investigators conclusions, so the matter was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am sorry to further disappoint Miss O, but having done so there is very little I can add to 
what our investigator has already said.  
Everyone accepts that the service NatWest provided to R was poor. The dispute is now 
about how much compensation R should receive for the impact of that poor service.
Ive carefully considered everything Rs representative has said, but Im not persuaded that 
NatWests mistakes caused R to suffer a financial loss. I note:
Whilst NatWests mistakes meant R spent several months without access to its own 
money, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that R needed to access the money 
over that period. I accept that it might have needed access, but in the event I dont 
think it did. Im mindful that R had not made any withdrawals from the disputed 
account for several years.
I dont think NatWests mistakes caused R to earn less money during 2020 and early 
2021 than it had in the equivalent period the previous year. 
NatWest has since returned all the money that was in the disputed account to R.
Our investigator was right to say that I have no power to make an award for the distress 
suffered by Rs directors or employees.
R did suffer inconvenience, in that NatWest made it more difficult than it should have been 
for Rs employees and directors to recover Rs money. Taking into account our published 
guidelines, and applying my own judgement, I am satisfied that the amount NatWest has 
already offered does represent fair compensation for that inconvenience. I will not ask it to 
do anything more.
Putting things right
If it has not already done so, National Westminster Bank Plc must pay £400 to R.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plcs offer of £400 is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman