DRN-3817902
The complaint
Miss E complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (Aegon) was responsible for a delay in 
processing her request to transfer the value of her pension plan to a Qualifying Recognised 
Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS) based in Australia. She says that the delay caused 
her to suffer a significant financial loss which couldve been avoided had Aegon processed 
her request in a timely manner.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his 
assessment which he provided to both Miss E and Aegon. I dont intend to repeat here what 
our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
On 3 December 2021, Miss E emailed Aegon to enquire about transferring the value of her 
pension plan to a QROPS based in Australia where she was resident. There followed an 
exchange of messages between Aegon and Miss E over the next few months into early 2022 
relating to her request. Aegon didnt have details of Miss Es residential address which 
caused a delay until it updated its records. She became unhappy about how long it was 
taking Aegon to process her transfer request. This resulted in her complaining to Aegon.
On 19 April 2022, Aegon issued its final response upholding Miss Es complaint. It agreed 
that the level of service it provided was inadequate which had resulted in it causing an undue 
delay in processing her transfer request. It concluded that had it acted in a timely manner it 
wouldve emailed the transfer forms to Miss E on 13 February 2022. It calculated that it was 
responsible for a delay of 56 working days. To put things right, Aegon apologised to Miss E 
and said it would pay £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its delay (that 
amount was credited to her bank account on 20 May 2022). It also said it would carry out a 
loss assessment comparing the fund value on the actual disinvestment date to the notional 
fund value 56 working days prior to the disinvestment date  and if this revealed a financial 
loss it would make a top up payment to the receiving plan (Aegon didnt mention whether it 
would take into account the currency exchange rate between GBP and AUD when 
calculating the loss). It requested that Miss E contact its complaints team after the transfer 
had been completed to enable it to carry out the loss assessment. 
Miss E was reluctant to accept Aegons offer due to a lack of detail about what the loss 
assessment would entail and the monetary amount that would be paid. Since Aegon failed to 
provide the explanation she wanted, Miss E asked this service to consider her complaint.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld. In his view, he thought that 
Aegon couldve emailed the transfer forms to Miss E on 20 December 2021. Allowing time 
for Miss E to return the forms and for Aegon to process them, he concluded that Aegon was 
responsible for a delay of 79 working days and that, had the delay not happened, the 
transfer wouldve been completed on 18 January 2022. He thought that Aegons final 
response lacked sufficient detail  such as whether it would take into account the currency 
exchange rate between GBP and AUD  to enable Miss E to make an informed decision 
whether to accept it, so he could understand why she was reluctant to accept the offer based 
on the information provided which led to a further delay to the transfer. To put things right, 
and taking into account the 79 working day delay, our investigator recommended that Aegon 
calculate and pay any redress due to Miss E on the basis that the transfer to the QROPS 
plan happened on 18 January 2022 assuming no changes to the underlying asset allocation 
of her Aegon pension plan. Our investigator stated that this should take into account the 
currency exchange rate between GBP and AUD on the relevant dates.
While Miss E accepted our investigators assessment, Aegon didnt. It said that it didnt 
agree it was responsible for a delay of 79 working days  this was partly because its service 
level agreement (SLA) for responding to queries was five working days and not 24 hours, 
as assumed by our investigator. It said that if it paid redress based on a 24-hour SLA then it 
wouldnt be fair on its other customers making similar transfer requests. It accepted that its 
final response didnt explicitly confirm its loss assessment would take into account the 
currency exchange rate between GBP and AUD but confirmed it would when the time came 
to carry out the assessment. It confirmed that it had previously paid £300 compensation to 
Miss E on 20 May 2022 for the trouble and upset caused by the delay. And that after it paid 
that compensation it couldnt take any further action until the transfer had been completed at 
which point it would carry out the loss assessment, as stated in its final response. It received 
the completed transfer forms from Miss E on 4 November 2022.
Our investigator considered the additional comments provided by Aegon. He noted its 
comments about its SLA but had said he had taken into account the fact that Aegon had 
responded within 24 hours to some of Miss Es other emails. So our investigator wasnt 
persuaded to change his view and recommended remedy to resolve this complaint. 
Miss E contacted this service to state that the transfer to the QROPS plan was completed on                  
17 February 2023. She believed she had suffered a financial loss of at least AUD 13,864 
compared to the position she wouldve been in had the transfer completed on                                      
18 January 2022. She commented this figure didnt take into account that had she had 
access to the money in her QROPS plan from 18 January 2022, this couldve been invested 
elsewhere and so had likely missed out on an investment gain in connection with this.
Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me, an 
ombudsman, to review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the 
submissions made by Miss E and Aegon. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide 
what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Theres no dispute that Aegon was responsible for an undue delay in processing Miss Es 
transfer request. In its final response, Aegon accepted that it was responsible for a delay of 
56 working days. But our investigator thought it was responsible for a delay of 79 working 
days. Miss E accepted our investigators assessment. So it seems the parties agree that 
Aegon was responsible for an undue delay between 56 and 79 working days between              
Miss Es initial enquiry on 3 December 2021 and Aegons final response on 19 April 2022. 
Therefore, all that remains to be decided is the basis upon which Aegon should calculate 
and pay any redress due to Miss E.Ive considered all the available evidence. Having done so, I agree with the conclusion 
reached by our investigator that  following Miss Es initial enquiry on 3 December 2021  
Aegon couldve reasonably updated Miss Es address details and emailed her the necessary 
transfer forms on 20 December 2021. Ive considered Aegons comments about its SLA but, 
in the interests of resolving this complaint, I dont think its unreasonable for me to conclude 
that it couldve updated its records and emailed the necessary transfer forms on                              
20 December 2021. Had that happened then, like our investigator, I think the transfer 
couldve reasonably been completed on 18 January 2022. 
I recognise that after Aegon issued its final response to this complaint that it was reliant on 
Miss E to return the transfer forms to enable it to complete the transfer and that there was 
another delay after 19 April 2022. I dont think this further delay was helped by Aegon failing 
to provide clearer details in its final response about its proposed loss assessment and then 
failing to provide an explanation when requested, which caused more frustration for Miss E. I 
can understand why she was hesitant to progress with the transfer until clearer details about 
the proposed loss assessment were provided.
The evidence Ive seen shows that Miss E acted reasonably and responded to Aegons 
requests for information in a timely manner following her initial enquiry on 3 December 2021. 
I havent seen any evidence that shows Miss E was responsible for an undue delay. Rather, 
it seems to me that she was keen to get on with the transfer as soon as was practicably 
possible, but Aegons poor level of service, tardy responses, and lack of clarity in its final 
response unduly delayed the transfer. I think its fair to say that had Aegon processed                              
Miss Es request in a timely manner, as it ought to have done, then this complaint wouldnt 
have materialised. Therefore, I dont think its necessary for me to consider any subsequent 
delays after Aegon issued its final response. So, overall, I think its fair to assess the 
financial position Miss E would now be in had the transfer been completed on                                   
18 January 2022  which I dont think is an unreasonable timeframe to have expected Aegon 
to complete the transfer bearing in mind Miss E made her initial enquiry about a transfer on   
3 December 2021. 
Therefore, taking everything into account, Ive concluded its fair and reasonable to uphold 
this complaint and to direct Aegon to calculate and pay any redress due to Miss E.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Aegon to put Miss E, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for the undue delay caused by Aegon. 
Aegon has confirmed that it paid £300 compensation to Miss E on 20 May 2022 for the 
trouble and upset caused by its delay. I think this is a fair amount and broadly in line with 
what I would recommend. Since this element of Aegons redress offer has already been 
settled, I dont intend to comment on it further.
Ive considered the point Miss E has made that had the transfer happened on                      
18 January 2022, the money wouldve been available in her QROPS plan for re-investment 
elsewhere and that she believes shes missed out on an investment gain in connection with 
this. I dont fully agree. While I agree she ought to have had access to that money in her 
QROPS plan sooner, theres inadequate evidence that persuades me where else she 
wouldve invested it and how it might have performed  indeed, it may have suffered a 
reduction in value during 2022. So, overall, I dont intend to make an award in respect of this 
part of Miss Es claim.
What should Aegon do?To compensate Miss E fairly, Aegon should:
Calculate the notional transfer value of Miss Es pension plan with Aegon as at                    
18 January 2022. Convert the GBP value to AUD using the exchange rate as at                     
that date. From this notional figure, Aegon should subtract the transfer value of                
Miss Es pension plan at the actual date of transfer, again converting the GBP value 
to AUD using the exchange rate as at the date of transfer. If the answer is negative, 
then Miss E made a gain because of the delay and no redress is payable;
Aegon should also pay any interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
this final decision to settlement date (if not settled within 28 days of Aegon receiving 
Miss Es acceptance of this final decision);
If theres a financial loss (i.e. the notional value is higher than the actual value) 
Aegon should pay into Miss E's QROPS plan to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation and any applicable interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Aegon shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the QROPS plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance;
If Aegon is unable to pay the compensation into Miss Es QROPS plan it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay to the QROPS plan, it 
wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any tax that would otherwise have been paid. The payment 
would have no liability to UK income tax, but it should be adjusted to allow for any 
Australian tax charges that Miss E might incur because the payment is being made 
outside of the QROPS plan. Miss E will need to provide Aegon with evidence of any 
tax charges shes incurred in respect of this and also any tax charges in relation to 
the compensation payment; and
Provide the details of the calculation to Miss E in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aegon considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss E how much 
its taken off. It should also give Miss E a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if 
Miss E asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I direct Scottish Equitable Plc trading 
as Aegon to calculate and settle and redress due to Miss E on the basis Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman