DRN-3715484
The complaint
Mrs R complains on behalf of the Estate of the late Mr B.
Mrs R complains that Allied Irish Banks Plc (AIB) hasnt been able to locate some funds 
which were visible on Mr Bs bank statement from 1988. And AIB hasnt been able to provide
her with any information about what happened to the account.
As Mrs R has brought the complaint to this service, I will refer to her throughout this
decision.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case. I wanted to give both parties the 
opportunity to respond with any additional comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I came to my final decision on the matter. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision. 
Mrs R says she found a bank statement of her late fathers dating back to 1988, which
showed there was a balance on the account of £314.92.
Mrs R says she contacted AIB to find out what happened to the account, where the funds
were transferred to, and when the account closed.
AIB responded to the complaint to say that it could no longer find any details of the account
held by Mr B. It explained that because the account details are no longer on its systems, it
suggests that the account was closed a long time ago and it couldnt confirm the date the
account was closed. It explained that it had checked to see if the account had gone dormant,
and there was also no record of this. AIB confirmed that it only kept records of a closed
account for 12 years. AIB didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs R has said that shes unhappy with AIBs response, and the lack of information it has
been able to give her.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint, but they didnt uphold it. The Investigator thought
the account was likely to have been closed more than 12 years ago, and so didnt find it
unreasonable of AIB to not have records of the account.
Mrs R didnt agree with the Investigators view and asked for an Ombudsman to decide on
the matter. Mrs R wanted more information about what AIB check when searching dormant
accounts, and she would like to know when the account details were reissued (to another
customer). Because Mrs R didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has
been passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
Since being allocated this case, I have asked our Investigator to get information about the
late Mr Bs previous addresses. And I asked AIB to search its dormant account register
using this information.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs R, but I will explain my reasons for this
below.
I dont think its in dispute here that Mr B did have an account with AIB  this is clear from the
statement provided by Mrs R. But this statement is only a snapshot of a point in time in
1988. What we know from the account status in 1988, was that it was open with a balance.
AIB no longer have any records of Mr Bs account. It says it checked its internal systems and
hasnt been able to find anything that relates to Mr B. From this, it seems likely that the
account closed more than 12 years ago.
AIB has confirmed that the account details have since been reallocated to someone else,
which is another indication that the account was closed some time ago. I know Mrs R has
asked for a date that this account was reallocated, but I havent asked AIB to confirm this, as
I dont think this helps identify when the account was closed, or would provide any insight
into what happened to the account.
I have also seen screenshots of AIB checking its dormant accounts register, with the
addresses provided by Mrs R. Again, this didnt come back with any matches, so it doesnt
appear that the account is showing on a dormancy register.
If Mr Bs account had become dormant, it would have been transferred to a separate
dormancy register, and it would remain on that register indefinitely. Given that there are no
records of Mr B on this register, I dont think it likely his account went into dormancy.
From the very limited evidence I have, on balance, I think it more likely that this account was
closed some time ago, given Mr B doesnt appear on AIBs systems or the dormancy
register, and the account details have now been passed to someone else.
I can understand Mrs Rs frustration with not being provided more information about the
account  for example, when it was closed, or where the funds were transferred to. But I
dont find it unreasonable that AIB no longer has any information relating to the account - it
doesnt have to keep records indefinitely. And AIB cant provide Mrs R with information it
simply doesnt have.
Based on everything Ive seen so far, I dont think AIB has done anything wrong.
Both Mrs R and AIB responded to the provisional decision to say they didnt have anything 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have no further comments to make, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings in my provisional decision. And so, it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the estate of Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman