DRN-3055298
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Lex Autolease Ltd following the 
return of his car.
What happened
In March 2017, Mr D was supplied with a car through a hire agreement with Lex. The 
agreement was for 36 months, with an advance payment of £3,941.82, and 35 monthly 
payments of £788.36. 
In March 2020, when the agreement ended, Mr D arranged to return the car. But, because of 
the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, Lex werent immediately able to collect the car. Mr D 
kept the car in a secure storage facility until 3 September 2020, at which point he parked the 
car on a public road. 
After the car had been collected, Lex invoiced Mr D for damages that fell outside the British 
Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) guidelines. Mr D wasnt happy with this, 
and said the car wasnt damaged when he took it out of the secure storage facility. He said 
that the damage mustve occurred while the car was parked on a public road, while the car 
was waiting to be collected by Lex. So he didnt think it was his responsibility.
Mr D complained to Lex, and they reduced the charge for a missing key. But they didnt 
reduce the charges for the damage to the car. Mr D was unhappy with Lexs response, and 
he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen evidence that the damage to the car fell outside the BVRLAs 
fair wear and tear guidelines, so he thought Lex had acted reasonably by charging Mr D for 
this. He said that the photographs Mr D supplied arent clear enough to show if any damage 
was present, and it wasnt possible to see when these photographs were taken.
The investigator also said that all of the damage being charged for was unlikely to have 
occurred while the car was parked i.e. damage to the alloy wheels on both sides of the car. 
And, even if it had, the car was Mr Ds responsibility until it was collected. So he didnt think 
Lex needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said he was unhappy with Lex charging him 
extended rental fees, when they refused to collect the car. He maintains that the damage to 
the car was caused after he parked it on a public road and sent the keys to Lex. And he 
doesnt agree that hes responsible for the damage as he wasnt insuring the car at the time 
the damage was caused.
Because Mr D didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about 
it. 
In his comments on the investigators view, Mr D has said he was unhappy with the 
extended rental fees he was charged by Lex. Ive seen that Mr D has already raised a 
separate complaint with us about this. So I wont be addressing this within my decision.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr D signed on 9 March 2017. Under section 7(f) this 
states you shall take all reasonable precautions to keep the Vehicle safe and secure and 
shall at all times fully and effectively indemnify the Supplier [Lex] against any loss resulting 
from or arsing out of any breach of the Customers obligations under this agreement.
The agreement goes on to say that Mr D has a responsibility to keep the car insured (section 
10(a)) and that Mr D is responsible for any damage outside of fair wear and tear guidelines 
(section 19). Based on the above, Im satisfied that Mr D wouldve been reasonably aware of 
his obligations under the agreement, and that he could be charged for damage to the car 
when it was returned.
Ive seen a copy of the report, dated 4 May 2021, following the collection of the car. This 
details the damage to the car that falls outside of fair wear and tear guidelines. And, on 10 
May 2021, Lex charged Mr D for this damage.
Ive reviewed the photographs Mr D supplied, which are showing as being taken on 3 
September 2020. Its clear from these photographs that there is some damage to the edges 
of the alloy wheels. However, the bodywork damage isnt clear from the photographs  there 
are some marks on the bodywork panels that may be scratches or dents, but the reflection 
on the bodywork make it almost impossible to say with any certainty what they are.
Mr D has said that the damage was caused after the photographs were taken on 3 
September 2020, so he doesnt feel its his responsibility. But I dont agree with this. Its clear 
there was a delay in Lex collecting the car  from the evidence Ive seen this didnt happen 
until May 2021. And, between September 2020 and May 2021 the car was parked, 
uninsured, on a public road. So, to all intents and purposes, Mr D had abandoned it. But the 
agreement he signed makes it clear that he was not only responsible for insuring the car, 
section 7(f) meant he was responsible for any loss arising from his actions  in this case any 
damage that happened to the car.
Because of this, Im satisfied that Lex acted reasonably by charging Mr D for the damage to 
the car, even if this damage happened between September 2020 and May 2021. So I wont 
be asking them to reduce or waive their invoice.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Lex Autolease Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman