DRN-2003759
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt with their 
claim following an escape of water in their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E have household buildings and contents insurance with Admiral. On 16 
September 2019 Mrs E contacted Admiral to make a claim for damage to their home caused 
by a leaking hot water pipe. Mr and Mrs E say there were considerable delays in dealing with 
the claim, arising from a lack of communication between Admiral and the loss adjusters and 
contractors theyd appointed. And the loss adjustors didnt keep them updated, even though 
Admiral said they would. This led to Mrs E having to take time off work for unnecessary 
appointments, and to their home being damp, with unusable rooms, for far longer than was 
necessary.
The leaking pipe was in the wall between Mr and Mrs Es en-suite bathroom and hall. 
Admiral appointed loss adjustors and contractors. The contractors attended at Mr and Mrs 
Es property on 17 September 2019. They removed a section of skirting board and 
plasterboard in the hall to expose the leaking pipe. Mr and Mrs E then arranged for their own 
plumber to fix the leak. This was done on 18 September 2019.
In their stabilisation report, dated 17 September 2019, the contractors recommended 
stripping out the damaged area in the hall and en-suite bathroom. And, once this was done, 
they estimated it would take 21 days to dry out the affected areas before repairs and 
reinstatement could be started. They didnt recommend installing any drying equipment as 
the leak hadnt yet been fixed, and to move the claim forward they said the damaged 
bathroom suite, plasterboard and floor tiles in the affected areas needed to be removed.
A loss adjustor visited the property on 24 September 2019. And on 8 October 2019 there 
was a joint visit from a surveyor and the drying company. After this Mr and Mrs E heard 
nothing, so Mrs E chased Admiral on 16 October 2019, and again on 22 October 2019, 
when she was told they were awaiting the surveyors report.
At this point Mr and Mrs E complained to Admiral, as they had exposed pipework in their 
hall, their house was still damp, and after six weeks they felt they were no closer to anything 
being dried or removed.
On 30 October 2019 the original contractors visited the property again, with the restoration 
contractors whod been appointed to do the stripping out work. The original contractors told 
Mr and Mrs E theyd been instructed to carry out a nitrates test to assess moisture levels 
elsewhere in their property. Mr and Mrs E were told this was necessary to prove the escaped 
water was chlorinated and not related to a damp problem, and to assess moisture levels, to 
see when the property was likely to be dry.
On 4 November 2019 the restoration contractors called Mrs E to arrange the strip out. This 
was booked for 14 November 2019. Mrs E rang the original contractors on 7 November 
2019, as she hadnt heard from them about the installation of the dryers. They suggested 
allowing a few days after the strip out had been completed, so the delivery of the dryers was 
booked for 18 November 2019.
The strip out was started on 14 November 2019, but Mr and Mrs E were told the floor tiles 
couldnt be removed until an electrician confirmed the underfloor heating had been isolated, 
and it was safe to proceed. An electrician arrived in the late morning and confirmed the 
underfloor heating had been isolated, but by then the contractors were packing up, as they 
said they had another job to get to. The loss adjusters called Mrs E on 17 November 2019 
and said they were sending her the schedule for the strip out. She informed them it had been 
started, but not finished.
Despite Mrs E having told the loss adjustors the strip out hadnt been completed, the 
contractors arrived, on 18 November 2019, to install the dryers. This couldnt be done as the 
strip out hadnt been completed, and there was moisture under the floor. The loss adjustors 
arranged for the contractors to return and finish the strip out on 22 November 2019. Mr and 
Mrs E were unhappy that they contractor wouldnt remove some chipped tiles, some broken 
plasterboard, and an area of skirting board in the hall that was still showing damp, without 
speaking to his office. He told Mrs E he couldnt get through to his office and left without 
doing as shed asked.
Two electric dryers and a fan were installed in the property on 25 November 2019. They 
were repositioned on 2 December 2019 and the en-suite bathroom and hall were sealed with 
polythene. The drying equipment was removed on 13 December 2019. So, it took 19 days to 
dry the property. The loss adjustors had arranged a video call with Mrs E the same day to 
assess the situation and finalise the reinstatement schedule. Mrs E told them she didnt feel 
they were qualified to assess what should be included in the schedule and asked for a 
surveyor to be instructed. This was agreed.
The surveyor inspected the property on 17 December 2019 and told Mrs E hed sent the 
reinstatement schedule to the loss adjustors. He asked Mrs E to provide any information or 
receipts she had relating to the original fixtures. She sent these to him the following day. On 
19 December 2019 the loss adjustors called Mrs E to say theyd have the schedule to 
discuss with her on 23 December 2019, but she didnt receive the promised call. 
Mr and Mrs E had to make alternative plans for Christmas 2019, as due to the condition of 
their property they were unable to have their family to stay, as had been planned. They 
received the reinstatement schedule on 9 January 2020. This recommended further strip out 
work. Mr and Mrs E say that this work was included in the original schedule prepared on 17 
September 2019, and could have been done before the drying started, but the loss adjusters 
said this wasnt necessary.
Admiral responded to Mr and Mrs Es complaint on 17 December 2019. They upheld the 
complaint agreeing that thered been delays in dealing with their claim and that 
communication could have been better. They said thered been a lack of ownership of the 
claim, which resulted in confusion about which sub-contractors were responsible for which 
elements of the claim. And that this had resulted in appointments being made with the wrong 
people. They offered Mr and Mrs E £450 for the trouble and upset theyd experienced.
Mr and Mrs E werent happy with Admirals response and complained to our service. Our 
investigator considered the case and felt that the £450 Admiral had offered wasnt enough, 
to compensate them for the trouble and upset theyd experienced. He said that even though 
Admiral had accepted thered been delays, he didnt think theyd fully considered the impact of this on Mr and Mrs E.
He said that the damage to their property had been categorised as being minor structural 
damage on 17 September 2019. Based on this he felt that thered been more than enough 
time for the claim to be resolved before Christmas 2019. While the claim was ongoing Mr 
and Mrs E had been unable to use their bedroom and en-suite bathroom, the property had 
been damp, and following the strip out of the bathroom, theyd been left with a smell of open 
drains throughout their home. This was because the contractors hadnt disconnected the 
waste pipe from the cistern, theyd just placed a plastic bag over it.
Admiral told our investigator that they were only happy for him to consider Mr and Mrs Es 
complaint up to the date of their final response letter, 17 December 2019. Despite this our 
investigator felt he could consider that Mr and Mrs E had to make alternative arrangements 
for Christmas 2019, as this was something theyd have done before Admiral replied to their 
complaint. As he said it was clear the property wouldnt be fit for visitors in time for 
Christmas.
He also said that the stabilisation report, prepared on 17 September 2019, gave a timescale 
of >21 days for stabilisation and drying, but for the reasons acknowledged by Admiral, 
dryers were only installed on 25 November 2019, more than two months after Mr and Mrs E 
made their claim. And because, more than once, the wrong contractors had been instructed, 
Mrs E had taken unnecessary time off work for abortive appointments.
Taking all this into account our investigator recommended that Admiral pay Mr and Mrs E a 
further £300 compensation, in addition to the £450 theyd already offered.
Admiral didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said the £450 theyd offered was 
reasonable. They also said that Mr and Mrs E had told them they couldnt host their family at 
Christmas, as their bathroom was out of use. But Admiral believed the property was fully 
habitable, as the affected en-suite bathroom, wasnt their main bathroom, and Mr and Mrs E 
wouldnt let contractors start work in the week before Christmas, as they were due to go 
away for New Year. They also said that some inconvenience was likely to occur, especially 
when there is ongoing work, and although thered been delays due to poor management of 
the claim, the delay was only five weeks, and the impact was lessened as they wouldnt let 
the work be done before Christmas, and they were away for New Year.
Our investigator considered Admirals comments but maintained his opinion that they should 
pay a further £300 compensation to Mr and Mrs E.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral have acknowledged that there were delays in dealing with Mr and Mrs Es claim. But 
I still need to consider the length of these delays, and what caused them, before I can decide 
if the compensation offered to Mr and Mrs E is fair and reasonable.
I accept that there was always going to be some degree of disruption following the water 
leak at Mr and Mrs Es home and the damage it caused. Initially Admiral acted promptly, 
instructing contractors who attended their property on 17 September 2019, the day after the 
water damage was discovered, and prepared a report. This report identified the source of leak as a hot water feed pipe in the hall and stated that a 
plumber was required a repair the leaking pipe. The report summarises the work to be 
carried out, once the leak had been repaired. This includes a strip out of the sanitary ware in 
the en-suite bathroom, removal of all the wall tiles, and possibly the floor tiles and 
replacement of affected plasterboard. 
In the hall damaged plasterboard had been removed to allow access to the leaking pipe. And 
it was noted that the floor tiles might have to be removed and the underfloor heating system 
checked or replaced. The report anticipated that the initial work to move the claim forward, 
the removal of the bathroom suite, any damaged plasterboard and floor tiles in the affected 
areas would be completed by 24 September 2019.
So, all the work that was required to allow drying to be carried out, before restoration works 
could be started, was identified on 17 September 2019.
Mr and Mrs E did what was required of them and arranged a plumber, who repaired the 
leaking pipe on 18 September 2019. Although a surveyor and loss adjustor visited the 
property on 24 September 2019, contractors werent appointed until the end of October 
2019. But when they visited the property there was a further delay as theyd been told to 
arrange a nitrates test. This was despite the report of 17 September 2019 identifying the 
source of the damp as a leaking pipe, and confirming the water was clean. Admiral had 
already had six weeks to arrange this test. And the contractors were only appointed after 
Mrs E had chased Admiral several times.
So the strip out work, which the initial report suggested could be completed in a week, 
wasnt started until 14 November. And then it wasnt completed, as an electrician didnt turn 
up in time to check the underfloor heating system, before the contractors packed up and left. 
I can understand how frustrating this must have been for Mrs E, whod taken time off work so 
the strip out could be completed. The need to check the heating system was identified on 17 
September 2019 and thered been weeks for Admiral to arrange this. But this hadnt been 
actioned even though Mr and Mrs E had already raised a complaint about delay.
Its clear, as Admiral have acknowledged, that the parties theyd appointed to handle Mr and 
Mrs Es claim werent communicating with each other. And because of this a lot of time was 
wasted. On 17 November 2019, when they called Mrs E, the loss adjustors werent aware 
that the strip out had been started, but not completed. And despite her telling them what had 
happened, they didnt notify the contractors installing the dryers, who turned up on 18 
November 2019, only to be sent away. This led to a further weeks delay. 
When the dryers were finally installed, it took under three weeks to dry out the property. By 
then it was mid-December, and Im satisfied that had the parties involved communicated, 
and kept Mr and Mrs E properly updated, the strip out and drying could have been 
completed much sooner. At one point it was suggested that Mr and Mrs E werent co-
operating, as they were turning off the dryers. This wasnt true and these comments related 
to a completely different claim. And is another example of the poor level of communication 
Mr and Mrs E experienced throughout their claim.
Im persuaded that the way in which their claim was dealt with by Admiral, caused Mr and 
Mrs E far more disruption and inconvenience, than I would normally expect to occur. 
Throughout the claim Mr and Mrs E acted quickly when anything was required from them, 
but unfortunately this wasnt true of Admiral, or the parties they appointed.
Admiral dont want us to look at anything that happened after 17 December 2019, the date of 
their final response letter.  But I think I can look at Mr and Mrs Es complaint that they had to 
make alternative arrangements for Christmas 2019, as this would have been done before this date. 
On 13 December 2019 the drying equipment had only just been removed. And having 
considered the photographs Mr and Mrs Es have sent us, I can understand why they didnt 
feel able to host their family for Christmas. The main bedroom and en-suite bathroom were 
still unusable, and while they also had a family bathroom, I think it was entirely reasonable 
for them not to want visitors until the reinstatement was done.
Given the delays thered been in arranging the strip out and drying, I also think it was entirely 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs E to say, they didnt want work on the reinstatement to start in the 
week before Christmas. Mr and Mrs E have told us they didnt receive the reinstatement 
schedule before Christmas, or the promised call to discuss it, so I think it unlikely, the work 
would have been started, even if theyd agreed. So, I dont accept that they contributed to 
the delay. And Admiral cant rely on this to say it lessened the impact of the delays. 
Im satisfied that there was a significant delay arising from Admirals handling of Mr and Mrs 
Es claim. As a result of this Im persuaded they suffered considerable trouble and upset, far 
more than Id expect in the normal course of a water damage claim. And to put things right I 
required Admiral to pay them a further £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint 
about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. And to put things right I require them to pay Mr 
and Mrs E a further £300 compensation, in addition to the £450 theyve already offered 
them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman