DRN-2495334
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC handled the redemption of his business 
loans, including the break cost it charged when a fixed rate loan was settled early.
What happened
Mr D had two business loans with Lloyds, secured over a property that hed converted into 
12 flats. One of the loans was a fixed rate loan (FRL), which was subject to a break cost if 
repaid early. The other was a variable rate loan (VRL).
On 3 June 2019, Mr D received a redemption quotation for the FRL. This said the break cost 
would be £23,026.61, with the total amount payable £383,829.39. Mr D arranged for that 
amount to be transferred to his business account the following day, ready for redemption. 
Later that month though, Mr D found that the redemption funds were still sitting in his 
account. So he got back in touch with Lloyds to chase things up.
Concurrently, Mr D made arrangements to settle the VRL. His solicitors paid £97,495.84 to 
do this on 20 June 2019. Lloyds advised that this had left a credit balance of £198.59 on the 
loan account. But the bank debited this amount on 1 July, as a payment to cover interest for 
June.
The FRL was subsequently repaid on 3 July. By this time a higher break cost was 
applicable, so Lloyds took a payment of £385,449.13 from Mr Ds account. But in recognition 
that things hadnt gone as they should have, it agreed to honour the quote of 3 June and 
refunded the amount that Mr D had overpaid back to his account. It also paid Mr D 
compensation of £250.
Mr Ds business account was left with an overdrawn balance of £198.65 on 3 July. Mr D 
wanted the bank to apply the credit balance on the VRL account  but Lloyds said that had 
been correctly debited to cover interest. It said it would waive overdraft interest and charges 
overnight, but that Mr D would need to return the account to credit to avoid any further costs.
Mr D remained unhappy. He didnt think he was liable for the overdrawn balance. He said 
Lloyds had debited 6p more when settling the FRL than it said it would, and incorrectly taken 
the £198.59 from the VRL account despite the loan having been repaid and confirmed by the 
bank as in credit by this amount.
Lloyds accepted the 6p discrepancy in the FRL redemption figures, and credited Mr Ds 
account with £1 to put that right. And it apologised for the confusion around the VRL interest. 
But the bank maintained that the £198.59 was correctly claimed to cover interest for 30 May 
to 20 June, which hadnt yet been debited when the outstanding balance was repaid. So it 
said Mr D was liable for the overdrawn balance, but that any related charges or interest 
would be waived until 20 July.
Mr D referred the matter to us. In addition to his concerns with the errors made in the 
redemption amounts, he said that Lloyds was refusing to remove its charge over the 
property because of the overdrawn balance  despite the loans having been repaid. He also 
queried how the bank had calculated the FRL break cost, highlighting that hed received a 
quote of £14,000 in November 2018 but this had increased to £26,000 by July 2019. He said 
that the Bank of England base rate had fallen in the interim, and so things had only gone in 
his favour.
Lloyds told us that the business account remained overdrawn, so interest and charges had 
continued to apply. It also said it had spoken to Mr Ds solicitor in November 2019 to advise 
that its charge over the property wouldnt be removed until the overdrawn position had been 
rectified. 
Lloyds subsequently advised that the overdrawn balance had been written off in January 
2020, to allow for the removal of the banks charge.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ds complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
In summary, she said:
While there had been a delay in arranging the redemption of the FRL, Lloyds had 
already put that right by treating the loan as if it had been repaid on 4 June 2019 as 
intended. So she didnt think it needed to do anything more.
There had been some understandable confusion about the £198.59 credit balance 
on the VRL  and Lloyds couldve handled this better, either by debiting the interest 
when settling the loan or explaining the position accurately at the time. But that 
amount had now been written off.
Lloyds had clearly explained that Mr D needed to repay the overdrawn balance of 
£198.59 before the charge could be removed. And she thought it wouldve been 
more prudent for Mr D to have paid the amount and challenged it afterwards. So she 
didnt think that Lloyds was liable for the financial losses that Mr D had claimed as a 
result of the delay in removing the charge.
Shed asked Lloyds for some more detail as to how the break cost had been 
calculated, which had been provided (and relayed to Mr D)  although detailed 
calculations werent available. She didnt find that the break cost ultimately applied 
was incorrect, which in short was the result of changes to the rate at which Lloyds 
could re-lend the funds at the date of redemption.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. He said that the sale of one of his flats was held 
up by the banks refusal to remove its charge until January. He didnt think the bank had the 
right to retain its charge once the loan in question had been redeemed, noting that the 
overdraft was on a separate account and not tied to a property. And he thought the break 
cost illustrations hed been given when taking out the loan were inaccurate and misleading. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator and for much 
the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The delays in redemption and the FRL break cost
Lloyds initially applied a higher break cost to the FRL on redemption, which was a 
consequence of repaying the loan on 3 July 2019 rather than 4 June. But in honouring the 
June redemption quote and refunding Mr D the additional amount he ended up paying, 
Lloyds ensured that he didnt suffer a financial loss as a result of the errors here. 
I can appreciate that this issue would also have caused Mr D some concern and put him to 
some inconvenience in having to make further arrangements to sort out the redemption. 
Lloyds says its already paid £250 for the issues arising from the misunderstanding here. I 
think thats fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Looking at the break cost itself, Im satisfied this was applied and calculated in line with the 
terms and conditions of the FRL. These set out that a break cost would be applied if the loan 
was repaid early, as Mr D did here. The amount payable is subject to a number of different 
factors, used to ensure that the bank still receives an amount equal to what it wouldve 
received had the loan run to its full term. 
Our investigator relayed a detailed explanation from Lloyds as to how it calculates break 
costs. I think this was sufficient to help him understand the factors and methodology 
involved, and is as much as Id expect it to share.
I appreciate why Mr D would be concerned at the significant increase in the break cost 
between the quotation he received in November 2018 (around £14,000) and the amount he 
had to pay in June 2019 (around £23,000). And I understand why Mr D might think that the 
fall in interest rates wouldve worked to his benefit. But for the purposes of the FRL, the 
opposite is true. The fall in rates means that the bank stood to make less when lending the 
funds back out again once Mr D had repaid the loan  pushing up the amount of the break 
cost, given its function to cover the banks loss should the loan be settled early.
In response to our investigators view, Mr D raised some concerns about how the FRL was 
sold to him at the outset, including that the break cost wasnt properly explained. That is 
quite a different issue to those one initially referred to us, and one that ought to be dealt with 
by way of a separate complaint. Our investigator is in contact with Mr D about the next steps 
in that regard, so I wont comment on that matter any further here. 
Settlement of the VRL, the credit balance and overdrawn account
There was some confusion over the settlement of the VRL. A payment of £97,694.43 was 
made to repay the loan on 20 June 2019. This left a credit balance of £198.59 on the day. 
In an email the following day, Lloyds said to Mr Ds solicitor:
I can confirm that the loan has been repaid. Your (sic) actually in credit 
by 198.59p  I will ask [Mr D] if he wants me to move this money over to 
the business account.
So I can see why Mr D initially thought he had that amount available  which he intended to 
transfer over to his business account to cover the redemption of the FRL. This was a mistake. In fact, that was interest applicable for the period between 30 May and 
redemption on 20 June. Thats evidenced by statements for the account, so Im satisfied it 
was legitimately debited from the account on 1 July. But it is regrettable that the bank 
caused confusion in misadvising Mr D. 
This was, though, clarified quite swiftly. When Mr D actually came to redeem the FRL, 
Lloyds explained in its letter of 3 July that the £198.59 had now been debited  meaning 
there was no credit balance that could be transferred to the account. It also pointed out that 
proceeding to settle the FRL would leave the business account overdrawn, so Mr D would 
need to make up that amount. So Mr D knew from 3 July that there was a shortfall of 
£198.59 that he was liable for and which hed need to make up.
In the end, Lloyds wrote off this amount  along with all the interest and charges that had 
accrued while the account was overdrawn. Given this was money it was always entitled to 
recover from Mr D, I think its done more than it needed to here. And so taking that into 
account, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything more to compensate Mr D for any distress 
or inconvenience caused by its errors in handling this aspect of the redemption.
Delays in removing the charge
While Lloyds took payment to settle the FRL on 4 July 2019, it only agreed to remove its 
charge over Mr Ds property after writing off the outstanding debt on the business account  
sometime later, in January 2020. 
Mr D doesnt think this was fair and I appreciate the argument hes made. The FRL had been 
repaid. And the charge was held as security for money borrowed under the FRL, not the 
overdraft. With the loan settled then, there was arguably no basis on which for Lloyds to 
have retained its charge.
But on the other hand, the FRL balance was only repaid because Lloyds accepted the full 
payment required from Mr Ds account even though there were insufficient funds to cover it. 
It couldve declined to settle the loan until there were sufficient funds in the account. This 
would likely have delayed things further, needing a new quote to be calculated and possibly 
costing Mr D even more. 
Lloyds clearly explained to Mr D on the day of redemption that in taking payment to settle the 
loan, hed be left with the overdrawn balance of £198.59 that hed need to clear. And it 
explained why that money was owed. This was reaffirmed on separate occasions 
subsequently too. It was then Mr Ds choice not to pay it, in knowledge of the consequences. 
While I appreciate his genuine belief that it wasnt a debt he owed, if the sale of the property 
was in jeopardy I think its reasonable to suggest he couldve cleared the relatively small 
balance and continued to challenge it afterwards.
So weighing everything up, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Lloyds responsible for 
any loss or inconvenience Mr D incurred while awaiting Lloyds removal of its charge. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Ben JenningsOmbudsman