DRN-3442682
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them mortgage payment 
protection insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage in 1984. Santander says that they did not purchase 
PPI at that time and that it wasnt until 2001 that they were sold PPI. Mr and Mrs M believe 
they were sold a version of PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage which was then 
re-packaged into Santanders new PPI product in 2001. Although it was a joint mortgage, the 
PPI was set up just to cover Mr M.
Following liaison from our adjudicator, Santander has offered Mr and Mrs M £75 
compensation for poor complaint handling, as it had initially said that Mr and Mrs M had not 
made their complaint before the PPI deadline. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold. Mr and Mrs M 
disagree with the adjudicators opinion. They also dont think that £75 is a sufficient amount 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to them. Therefore, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
Although Mr and Mrs M have been represented by their son in making this complaint, for the 
purposes of this decision I will just be referring to Mr and Mrs M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly Ill address Mr and Mrs Ms point that the PPI was sold in 1984 during the mortgage 
interview. Santander has provided a number of internal screenshots as part of its disclosure 
for this complaint. It considers its internal system notes to be business sensitive 
documentation and therefore Im unable to share these with Mr and Mrs M. However, I can 
assure them that I have considered all of the available evidence in detail.
Mr and Mrs M have provided a copy of a mortgage statement from 1991 that lists an annual 
cost for insurance. Santander has provided evidence that, when taking out the mortgage in 
1984, Mr and Mrs M also purchased Buildings and Contents insurance and a product called 
CD Household (POM) insurance, both of which were still running in 1991. POM stands for 
Peace of Mind. Mr and Mrs M are adamant that this was a type of PPI. However, as I 
understand it, Peace of Mind cover was actually an additional type of contents cover. It 
provided peace of mind because belongings were covered without a policyholder having to 
list their possessions, meaning that any new purchases were automatically covered. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs M have said. However, based on the 
available evidence, I am unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs M were sold PPI in 1984.
Santander has a record of PPI being sold to Mr and Mrs M in December 2001 and Ive seen 
a copy of the welcome letter that was sent to them following the sale that included the policy 
schedule and terms and conditions.
As Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage had been running for a number of years in 2001, they cannot 
have thought that the policy was a condition of the mortgage borrowing. From what we know 
of Santanders sales processes at the time, the PPI would normally have been presented as 
optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that something different 
happened in this case.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs M have provided their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded. 
On balance, I consider it most likely that Mr and Mrs M decided to buy the PPI, knowing that 
they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Santander advised Mr and Mrs M to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to them, it 
needed to ensure that the PPI met their needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mr M cant remember if he would have received any sick pay from his employer. Regardless 
of that, the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than 
Mr M would have received full pay for. And Mr and Mrs M didnt have any other means, such 
as savings, to fall back on. So it seems to me that they had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Santander could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly in relation to what it didnt cover. However, Mr M wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, he did not have a pre-existing medical condition that would have been 
excluded under the policy. As I consider that Mr and Mrs M had an interest in the PPI and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change 
their minds.
This means that Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
M. But Santander has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M 
because: 
When the policy was sold, Santander expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M 
about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
With regard to the offer of £75 for distress and inconvenience, Ive thought about what Mr 
and Mrs M have said in terms of the time taken chasing Santander about the complaint and 
about the stress that caused. But overall, I consider that £75 is a reasonable amount for the 
administrative error that occurred.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Therefore, Santander UK Plc 
should contact Mr and Mrs M with details of its commission offer and to progress the refund.
Santander UK Plc should also pay Mr and Mrs M the £75 compensation it has offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman