DRN-3723729
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the service they received from Aston Lark Limited (AL) when 
arranging an insurance policy. They say its responsible for the insurer withdrawing cover.
What happened
Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife, so Ive referred to him 
throughout this decision. References I make to Mr B and AL include the actions of respective 
representatives and agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
AL arranged a buildings insurance policy for Mr B covering a number of properties. 
The policy was underwritten by an insurer, which Ill refer to as X.
Mr B intended to purchase a new home and contacted AL in April 2021 to start the 
arrangements for the property to be added to the policy from completion of the 
purchase. He subsequently let AL know he would be undertaking significant building 
works before moving. He provided an overview of the scope of works and AL said he 
would likely need a specialist works policy while the works were ongoing.
Mr B contacted AL in May 2021 to say hed need buildings cover on the new property 
from exchange of contracts rather than completion and the property was added to the 
policy from June 2021. In August, amended policy documents were provided. AL 
asked Mr B to complete a questionnaire providing more details of the proposed 
works for it to submit to X. Mr B returned this in early September 2021 and AL 
emailed it to X the same day.
In early November 2021, Xs surveyor visited the property to undertake an 
assessment and noted the works had already started. It became apparent that, 
despite the questionnaire being emailed by AL, X had been unable to trace it and 
were unaware of the full details of the work. AL provided a copy of the original email 
the next day.
Shortly after, X said it couldnt provide cover for the new house as the works were too 
extensive. It also couldnt offer an appropriate specialist policy. Cover was reduced to 
certain risks from the start of the works and X said it would cancel all cover from mid 
October 2021. And a premium increase of £1,848 would be applied due to the works.
Mr B complained to AL. It said that while it had promptly submitted the works 
questionnaire, it hadnt followed this up with X. But it didnt accept that it was 
responsible for the increased premium and terms from X as these would have always 
applied due to the nature and extent of the works.
Mr B remained unhappy and raised a complaint with this Service, unhappy with ALs 
actions and the increased premium to cover the works. Our Investigator considered 
the evidence but didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded AL had sent the 
questionnaire in time and had made a relatively small error in not chasing receipt up. 
But he didnt think this ultimately had affected the terms or the premium.
Mr B asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints, Ill think about whether a business has done 
something wrong and if I decide it has, Ill then say what it needs to do to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been in if it wasnt for that mistake. 
The key question here, is whether ALs actions caused the premium increase and the 
terms quoted by X.
Ive seen evidence AL emailed the completed questionnaire to X on the day it said it 
did. The email was sent to the email address X had previously corresponded from. 
Its unclear why X didnt deal with the questionnaire and take things forward, but the 
reason for this sits outside the scope of this complaint. As Im satisfied AL handled 
this matter appropriately and shared the information with X as Id expect.
In this case, AL seems to have accepted it didnt check with X whether the works 
questionnaire had been received. It says this happened during a time when the 
member of staff previously responsible left and the follow-up action got missed. 
Eventually, a works policy was arranged through X for which a substantially higher 
premium was charged. But Ive seen nothing which persuades me this lack of follow 
up action resulted in the increased premium or the terms quoted by X. From what Ive 
seen, the premium increase was determined by the value of the sums insured and 
the size and nature of the works being undertaken, unrelated to any delay on ALs 
part.
Mr B says ALs actions meant there was only a short time to make these alternative 
arrangements. His mortgage lenders required appropriate cover to be in place which 
was why he took out the revised policy with X. He says, given more time, he would 
have instead relied on his building contractors policy or taken out a less 
comprehensive policy to bridge any gap in his contractors cover. But Ive not seen 
any evidence which persuades me this would have been a feasible alternative that 
he wouldve most likely taken up.
I understand why the late problems with the insurance cover from X and the 
increased premium would have been stressful for Mr B. Im not persuaded though 
that it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold AL responsible for this in light of 
the relatively small oversight on its part, for which it has apologised and made 
arrangements for the higher premium to be reduced by foregoing its commission on 
the sale of the policy.
For the reasons Ive explained, I wont be asking AL to do anymore.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman