DRN-3023501
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as N has complained that American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr N, a director of N, has brought the complaint on Ns behalf. 
What happened
N held a business protection policy with AIG that included cover for business interruption. N 
claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. 
AIG turned down Ns claim. They said, while the policy covers business interruption due to a 
specified list of diseases, Covid-19 isnt one of the diseases covered. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, N brought its complaint to our service. It said the extension 
for infectious diseases set out that it was covered for any infectious disease except AIDS or 
an AIDS-related condition. N said Covid-19 couldnt have been included in the list of 
diseases as it wasnt known about at the time the contract was entered in to.
Our Investigator looked into Ns complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for its claim. 
N asked for an Ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ns business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AIG have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ns claim.
I have considered the policy in its entirety but will focus my decision on the extension for 
infectious diseases as this is the extension N has referred to. 
The relevant part of the extension says:
The insurance by this Section extends to include interruption of or interference 
with Your Business in consequence of closure of the Premises or part thereof on 
the order advice or stipulation of any government or local authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested 
by any person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the 
Premises
Under the heading of Section Definitions it says:
These definitions apply to this Section wherever these words or phrases appear 
with an upper case letter except where otherwise stated
I dont find it unusual for an insurance policy to set out definitions in this way and as 
Disease has a capital letter it means that the policy definition applies rather than the 
everyday meaning of the word. Ns policy defines disease as:
any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis 
acute infectious hepatitis acute meningitis acute poliomyelitis anthrax botulism 
brucellosis cholera diphtheria enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid) food 
poisoning haemolytic uraemic syndrome(HUS) infectious bloody diarrhoea 
invasive group A streptococcal disease legionellosis leprosy malaria measles 
meningococcal septicaemia mumps plague rabies rubella SARS scarlet fever 
smallpox tetanus tuberculosis typhus viral haemorrhagic fever (VHF) whooping 
cough and yellow fever
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ns policy is not like this. The 
wording says it means any of the following diseases and sets out a defined list of diseases 
that are covered. There is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide 
cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be 
read as covering all and any new diseases. 
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would
extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think SARS and Covid-19 are the same disease.
The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. And the
World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses are
different, and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this new disease on 11
February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that
these two diseases are the same.
 
I recognise this isnt the outcome N was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AIG to pay Ns claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman