DRN-4144935
The complaint
Mr S complains that in 2012, Insight Financial Associates Limited gave unsuitable advice to 
transfer from his existing section-32 (s32) buyout plan to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) in order to make various investments in property developments. He is represented in 
this complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC).
What happened
Mr S says that his existing mortgage broker, who worked for a connected company to 
Insight, introduced him to the Insight adviser.  He was aged 47 and married, with no financial 
dependants. He worked for a manufacturing company. The adviser assessed Mr Ss attitude 
to risk as 8 on a scale from 1 to 10 (medium to high risk  defined as You are prepared to 
invest your capital in more volatile markets, with the potential for higher than average 
returns. He also noted Mr S wasnt a particularly experienced investor. No details of any 
other assets were recorded, but both Mr S and his wife were members of their current 
employers pension schemes.
Mr Ss s32 plan had been set up in 2008. It didnt have any guaranteed annuity rates or exit 
penalties. Less commonly for such a plan, it didnt have a Guaranteed Minimum Pension 
(GMP) either, but there was a range of about 165 funds to choose from (internally and 
externally managed). All the policy was invested in the providers Consensus Index fund. 
Insight calculated that the maximum tax-free cash based on the value of the policy when the 
old tax regime ended (5 April 2006) was 27.5%. This would have dropped to 25.6% based 
on the value of the plan in 2012 (but retained a link with the increases in the Lifetime 
Allowance rather than the value of the policy, which could fall in adverse investment 
conditions). The adviser recommended Mr S transfer this plan into a London & Colonial 
(L&C) SIPP. Mr S has told this service via his CMC that he remembers being overwhelmed 
by the adviser and not really being given time to think, but he followed the advice believing it 
to be in his best interests. 
Insights suitability report recommended Mr S invest £30,000 into hotel property in Cape 
Verde being developed by The Resort Group (TRG), and a further £10,000 into another land 
investment. It said Although I am not advising you on that element (the alternative 
investments) of your pension provision, I will however be making a recommendation on the 
retirement vehicle that will allow you to facilitate alternative investments and also the 
remainder of your pension value. The adviser did give a full recommendation to invest most 
of the remainder in a Gilliat structured product. 
The advantages for transferring were said to include maximising the potential for taking a 
lump sum, as well as higher remaining benefits at retirement, and flexibility to draw benefits 
as and when he chose. It was assumed Mr S wouldnt access his pension benefits before 
age 65, but he would like the ability to do so from age 55 if required. Insight stated that the 
disadvantages were the possibility of underperformance of the underlying investments, and 
there were new initial and ongoing charges. However, these were not significantly more 
expensive than the s32 plan; and charges were not a major consideration to you, more the 
ability to access the funds and solutions that you are looking for. 
On 22 August 2012 £66,386 was transferred from the s32 plan into the SIPP. The following 
investments were then made:
11 September 2012: £10,000 in unquoted shares in a company, S, which invested 
in land and was owned by the mortgage broker.
24 October 2012: £26,500 fractional investment in property in TRGs Llana Beach 
resort.
21 November 2012: £22,000 in the Gilliat multi-asset deposit structured product.
Interest payments in respect of the TRG investment then began on 14 December at the rate 
of 3%pa. These were however insufficient to meet the annual maintenance fee of £564 and 
the annual fee of £326 payable to the adviser. These interest payments were only due to last 
three years and rental returns on the investment were not forthcoming after that point.
The Gilliat Multi-Asset Deposit aimed to pay a lump sum interest payment at the end of a six-
year term, but this was dependent on the performance of an underlying multi-asset index 
and a lock-in event prompting payment to be made by the counterparty, a major UK bank. 
The index was based on UK and emerging market equities, UK gilts and corporate bonds, 
and certain commodities, including gold. 
Mr S and the adviser had a review meeting in March 2017, which included discussion about  
the rental income from TRG. Mr S was told that the Llana Beach complex had now opened 
and the rental income should commence at the end of quarter two. This then did happen and 
the rental income, although variable, was similar on average to the interest payments Mr Ss 
SIPP had previously been receiving. Mr S recalls being told that a travel operator had been 
found as a tenant for the hotel complex.
A further review meeting took place on 16 October 2018. Insight noted that Mr S was happy 
to take higher level of risk, but some elements of his portfolio werent on track with his 
financial objectives, as follows:
Gilliat  matures Dec 2018
Land  still expected to get planning within next 12-18 months which will then realise 
return
Cape Verde  value  ability to sell & income level (most concern)
The Gilliat investment was paid back to the SIPP at its original purchase price on 7 January 
2019, as the conditions for a higher payout linked to stock market performance werent met. 
The SIPP received its last quarterly rental payment from TRG on 7 June 2019. At this point 
£23,564 remained in the SIPP bank account.
Mr Ss CMC says that Mr S sent a complaint letter dated 19 August 2021 to Insight, but 
Insight says it didnt receive it. The letter refers to Mr Ss SIPP being high risk and therefore 
unsuitable for him. In the absence of a response, the CMC referred the complaint to our 
service on 9 February 2022. Insight responded that Mr S had already made the decision to 
invest in TRG prior to being referred to its adviser. Furthermore, it thought that Mr S ought to 
have known from his annual statements that the TRG income had dried up.
Our investigator asked what had prompted Mr S to complain. The CMC responded that Mr S 
had previously thought the pension seemed to be doing OK, but as he approached age 55 
in October 2019 he realised that it seemed impossible to take his tax-free cash out. He 
found there were problems with his L&C SIPP. The CMC first contacted Insight with a 
Subject Access Request that same month. The investigator didnt find evidence that the capital values of the three investments Mr S 
made were at markedly different levels to their book cost. So, he didnt think Mr S should 
have been prompted to complain sooner. He concluded that even if Insight didnt receive any 
complaint from Mr S until he notified this service of his complaint in February 2022, hed still 
complained within the three years he had from the point he ought reasonably to have 
become aware of his cause for complaint under our rules.
On the merits of the complaint, the investigator noted that the fund projections from the 
newly proposed SIPP were significantly lower than the existing s32 plan because of the 
impact of high fixed costs and also the 0.5% ongoing commission. He also considered some 
irrelevant reasons had been given for the transfer, including taking control of the pension 
away from Mr Ss ex-employer: that had happened when Mr S set the s32 plan up in 2008. 
There didnt seem to be any dispute that Mr Ss mortgage broker  as a director of the 
company developing the land Mr S partly invested in  was the reason for Mr Ss initial 
interest in the two property investments that necessitated him investing in the SIPP. TRG 
also had the characteristics of an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS). So, the 
investigator thought that should have made Insights adviser concerned about why the 
mortgage broker had highlighted this investment to Mr S in the first place, as he wasnt a 
sophisticated or high net worth investor. 
The investigator doubted the credibility of Insights assessment that Mr S was medium to 
high risk. And he wasnt satisfied that the inclusion of the Gilliat investment (which contained 
more downside protection than the other two) resulted in a sufficiently balanced portfolio 
overall. In conclusion, he said that Insight should compare the performance of the SIPP with 
how Mr Ss s32 policy would have performed, had it remained in place  and pay the 
difference to Mr S as compensation, plus £300 to recognise the stress and anxiety its 
actions had caused.
Insight didnt agree with the investigator, maintaining that Mr S was now too late to bring his 
complaint. It said the comments Ive quoted above from its notes of the review meeting with 
Mr S in October 2018 show that he had significant concerns about the TRG investment at 
the time. The adviser was also telling him in this meeting that he wasnt on track to achieve 
his retirement objectives. And this showed Mr S ought reasonably to have been aware of his 
cause for complaint before February 2019, which was even three years before he registered 
the complaint with our service.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Time limits
The rule at DISP 2.8.2R(2) in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s handbook says that I 
cant consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the 
complaint having been receivedIn this case, I agree with Insight that Mr S or his CMC do not have such an acknowledgment 
or record of the 19 August 2021 complaint letter. Im being asked to accept that it took the 
CMC nearly two years from October 2019 (when it first made its SAR) to send this letter, 
which apparently then wasnt chased at all until the referral to this service.
Mr S was already outside the six-year time limit set out above, because he was advised to 
transfer his pension in 2012. If the CMC wasnt satisfied with how Insight responded to its 
SAR, the concerns Mr S refers to having in October 2019 were already grounds for a 
complaint. So, I would have expected it to expedite matters sooner, as it didnt know what 
evidence might emerge regarding the three-year time limit. The CMCs lack of action in 
these circumstances is surprising, and I conclude on the balance of probabilities that Insight 
didnt receive any complaint from Mr S at all until this service received one in February 2022. 
That would mean the complaint was only brought in time if Mr S didnt know or oughtnt 
reasonably to have known of his cause for complaint more than three years before (ie 
February 2019). Mr S clearly did know of his cause for complaint in October 2019: he 
instructed the CMC at that point. So a key question I have to ask is, what didnt Mr S know in 
February 2019 that he did know eight months later?
Mr S told us that hed been looking at taking some benefits in October 2019 and it was at 
this stage that he found the difficulty in accessing his tax-free cash. Ive asked the 
investigator to clarify this comment with Mr S, because I noted that the amounts he invested 
in S and TRG were both still being valued at their book cost in his SIPP statements. 
Combined with the £22,000 that had been returned from Gilliat, he therefore had a valuation 
of nearly £60,000  so there were sufficient proceeds from Gilliat alone to pay the 25% tax-
free cash component (£15,000).
Ive also asked the investigator to ask Mr S for his recollection of the original expectations for 
the investments he made, and his reaction to Insights review documents of March 2017 and 
October 2018. Mr S responded that the rental income from TRG was expected to be higher 
than the 3%pa interest hed got at the outset, but he was told Brexit was the reason for the 
lower than expected amounts, and hed need to wait for this to settle down. There wasnt an 
expected income or return level from the investments in Gilliat or S, but hed been told that 
these were once in a lifetime opportunities which the adviser had invested in too, so he 
believed he was making the right decision.
Regarding his tax-free cash requirements in 2019, Mr S explained that he was looking to 
take his family on holiday for his 55th birthday, and as hed mentioned this to the adviser hed 
been waiting for the adviser to contact him. When he didnt hear from the adviser he realised 
his investments werent performing and he should leave the money in the pension until he 
really needed it. The realisation that he should complain came about through a chance 
discovery that one of his wifes colleagues had also invested in a Cape Verde property and 
had received compensation.
Ive taken into account both Mr Ss comments and Insights view of the significance of the 
review documents. Mr S agrees that he did have a review with the adviser every year, but 
that his recollections of these two meetings in particular (2017 and 2018) were of the adviser 
telling him the investments were doing fine. 
The 2017 notes (which discuss the hiatus in TRG income) go on to say will only know 
whether align to achieving objective when return achieved. However, they also include a 
wider discussion giving a positive outlook for Mr Ss investments. They reiterate that the 
SIPP forms a small element of overall pensions, potential to offer higher returns and 
although they were fairly illiquid  returns will become by way of maturing investments. In respect of the investment in S, they say looking at 2018 strong [illegible] now involved so 
should push forward. 
The second review document Insight has provided in October 2018 begins with a tick in the 
box saying My portfolio is on track before the adviser asterisked this to make the notes 
on specific investments Ive summarised above. These include that the return from Cape 
Verde (TRG) was of the most concern. However, I also have to take into account that this 
investment had resumed paying rental income by that point.
My assessment of the notes was that Insight was tempering Mr Ss expectations of what he 
might get from the investments, but not in such a way that ought reasonably to have made 
him aware he had cause for complaint. He had been told these were medium-high risk 
investments and that he could afford to take those risks. I find Mr Ss remarks plausible 
about Brexit resulting in the depressed level of rental income. And its clear from the notes 
that the adviser was leading Mr S to expect further developments from the investment in S in 
particular.
As the investigator said, all the investments were still being reported on L&C statements at 
fairly close to their book value. We dont have a 2019 statement, but the August 2018 one 
used a March 2017 value of £22,743 for TRG versus the £26,500 Mr S had paid in. That 
looks within the range of outcomes for what Mr S was told was a medium-high risk 
investment. And his later November 2020 statement suggests that L&C didnt update the 
values beyond December 2017 (when it had mostly recovered to £25,105). 
The amount of these fluctuations is even less significant when viewing the total value of the 
SIPP, which it would have been reasonable for Mr S to do. While he may have been 
disappointed that the income from TRG wasnt higher, or there was no return on the Gilliat 
investment, I can see that Mr S had some understanding that investment conditions were 
difficult. Given this Im not persuaded that disappointment with his investments necessarily 
meant he ought reasonably to have known that hed been given unsuitable advice.
Its instructive that two things had happened by October 2019 which hadnt in February 
2019. Mr S was now closer to his 55th birthday compared with his last review with the 
adviser, and its understandable that he would have looked at what he could access from his 
pension around then. But I also think its likely the failure of the scheduled TRG income 
payments from September 2019 played its part here. 
Mr S says that he began to have concerns about the TRG investment and, having foregone 
income for a period between 2015 and 2017 I can appreciate that he could ill afford to do so 
again. It had been the only investment in his portfolio returning an income. And despite 
Mr Ss initial reference to tax-free cash, Im satisfied that he didnt have a pressing need for 
such sums at that time. He was still working and the 2017 review recorded that his mortgage 
wasnt due for repayment for another seven years. I note that even in the original advice the 
ability to take sums from age 55 was if required, rather than a concrete aim.
 
Im therefore not persuaded that Mr S ought reasonably to have been aware of his cause for 
complaint that Insight had wrongly advised him to transfer his pension any sooner than he 
admits actual knowledge of this in October 2019, and his complaint has been brought within 
the time limits for me to consider it.
The merits of the complaint
Ive reached a very similar view to the investigator on this issue, so Im not going to rehearse 
everything thats already been said to the parties before. Notably, Insight offered no further 
evidence or argument other than on the time limits which Ive considered above.The transfer to the SIPP looks to have been unnecessary when viewed on financial grounds. 
As the investigator mentioned, the s32 plan had an average fund charge of 0.2%pa, and the 
SIPP incurred at least a £564 annual maintenance charge (0.85% of the transferred amount) 
and 0.5%pa ongoing advice charge. There was also a £935 initial adviser charge and further 
initial investment charges (together totalling about 1.75% of the transfer). Spreading the 
initial costs over the term to age 65 would give a total reduction in yield of roughly 1.45%pa. 
Insight said at the time that the SIPP wasnt significantly more expensive than the existing 
s32 plan, but I think these figures show that it was  and more than 1% of additional charges 
made it harder for the new pension to outperform his existing one.
The former regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) issued a thematic report on the 
quality of advice on pension switching in December 2008. This highlighted pensions that 
incurred unnecessary product costs for options that werent required as an example of poor 
practice. The existing s32 plan had a wide enough range of funds for an unsophisticated 
investor such as Mr S, who wouldnt necessarily require ongoing advice if his investments 
were adequately diversified at the outset (such as in the fund he was already invested in). 
So I dont think he would have been suitably advised to transfer to the SIPP unless there 
was an overriding need for this product to make the non-standard investments he was 
interested in making.
In order to provide suitable advice in line with COBS 9 in the FCA handbook, Insight was 
under a duty to assess the suitability of the proposed investments; not just the SIPP in 
isolation. This included assessing whether Mr S could afford to take the risks involved in the 
investments in TRG and S in particular. Insight says Mr S had already decided to make 
these investments before he saw its adviser, but I think it should have been mindful that 
Mr S was doing that on encouragement from his mortgage broker, who wasnt authorised to 
financial advice  and worked for a company connected to Insight. 
Like the investigator, I cant see that Mr S, as an unsophisticated investor, would have been 
in a position to seek out these investments had it not been for the mortgage brokers 
involvement. And I dont think his medium to high attitude to risk can be substantiated: its 
higher than his existing fund choice with no apparent explanation for why Mr S had the 
capacity to take that risk, other than that this wasnt his only pension.
In my view it was Mr Ss lack of understanding or experience of these types of unregulated 
investments that combined to mean he could ill afford to take the risks involved. TRG was an 
investment in off-plan property, with multiple risks including planning and legal risks, the 
default of the developer, market sentiment, currency conversion and so on. Cape Verde 
wasnt at that time a well-enough established holiday destination to predictably sustain the 
expansion in developments such as TRGs, and a lack of demand for the property would 
likely exacerbate the liquidity risk.
The investment in S attracted some risks that were similar. It was a highly specialised 
investment that lacked the diversification of, say, an insured property fund. The company 
had been incorporated about a year before Mr S invested. With both investments there was 
no reliable secondary market if they didnt prove to be profitable and Mr S wanted to encash 
them. And the lack of diversification was made worse by both investments focusing on the 
same sector (property). Investing in an offshore scheme that had the characteristics of UCIS, 
or in unquoted shares in a small UK start up company, can only reasonably be seen as high 
risk and appropriate only for experienced or sophisticated investors. Mr S was none of these.
Whilst the investment in Gilliat may have been an attempt to even out the risk, I agree with 
the investigator that this wasnt the answer to the problem of the other two investments 
exceeding Mr Ss capacity to take risk in the first place. It resulted in an unbalanced and inadequately diversified portfolio that went outside Mr Ss tolerance for risk. It also wasnt an 
approach that was likely to produce a better outcome for Mr Ss risk appetite than staying in 
his existing Consensus fund which offered a broader spread of investments at a lower cost.
As the investigator has already argued, financial planning isnt simply about taking orders 
from clients. Where a SIPP is being recommended the proposed investments are part of the 
advisers recommendation. If an advising business, following the regulators rules at 
COBS 9, can only reasonably conclude that the proposed investments are unsuitable for 
their client, they should say that to the client. Insight was qualified to provide this advice, 
whereas Mr Ss mortgage broker was not  as evidenced by the fact Mr S was referred to 
Insight in the first place. In this case I consider Insight should have recommended Mr S 
remain invested in his s32 plan, and I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr S 
wouldnt have followed that advice.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr S would have remained with his existing s32 provider, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
To compensate Mr S fairly Insight Financial Associates Limited must: 
Compare the performance of Mr S's SIPP with the notional value if his pension had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. 
If there is a loss, pay a sufficient sum into Mr S's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest shown below. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Insight shouldnt 
pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Insight is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid. 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%. 
Pay Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor advice, which 
has led to the likely loss of a substantial part of Mr Ss pension fund. 
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format. 
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start date) To (end date) 
London and 
Colonial (L&C) 
SIPPSome 
liquid/some 
illiquid Notional value 
from previous 
provider Date of transfer Date of this final 
decisionActual value: This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If, at the end date, any investment in the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold 
on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. So, Insight 
should take ownership of any illiquid investments within the portfolio by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to L&C. This amount Insight pays should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated. 
If Insight is unable to purchase any illiquid investment, the value of that investment should be 
assumed to be nil when arriving at the actual value of the portfolio. Insight may wish to 
require that Mr S provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from that 
investment in the future. The undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Insight will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking. 
Notional Value: This is the value of Mr S's investment had it remained with the previous 
provider until the end date. Insight should request that the previous provider calculate this 
value. Any withdrawal of pension or tax-free cash from the London and Colonial SIPP should 
be deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Insight will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr S's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair 
value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation. 
The L&C SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive 
set out above how this might be achieved by Insight taking over the portfolio, or this is 
something that Mr S can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take. Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
So, if Insight is unable to purchase the portfolio, to provide certainty to all parties I think its 
fair that it pays Mr S an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although its called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr S's circumstances and risk attitude.
The investigator proposed a further calculation of any additional tax Mr S might pay as a 
result of losing the protected tax-free cash sum under his s32 plan. As I indicated above, at 
the time of transfer this protected sum was only tracking at slightly more than the 25% tax-
free cash Mr S is still entitled to from his SIPP. And I expect both the growth in the notional 
value of Mr Ss s32 plan, or the alternative index Ive specified above, to have outstripped the indexation of this protected sum since 2012. 
That will mean that once the compensation is added to Mr Ss SIPP, he wont be at a 
disadvantage in terms of the tax-free cash he can take. And if the compensation cannot be 
paid into the SIPP, the payment to Mr S in cash instead already allows for his ability to take 
a full 25% tax-free cash sum. Therefore, it wont be necessary for Insight to consider the 
treatment of tax-free cash separately in its calculations  as it wont result in more 
compensation.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require Insight Financial Associates Limited to pay him 
compensation, calculated as set out above. If my award is not paid within 28 days of Insight 
receiving Mr Ss acceptance of this decision, it will attract interest at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of this decision until its paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman