DRN-3849798
The complaint
Mr B complained about an administration issue concerning his Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). He says that when he drew down some cash from the SIPP in 2022 he was 
charged a much higher amount of income tax than hed been led to believe would be the 
case.
Mattioli Woods PLC administered the SIPP and is therefore responsible for answering Mr Bs 
complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer mainly to Mattioli Woods.
What happened
Mr Bs SIPP balance was around £22,284 in August 2022. After taking the allowed 25% tax-
free sum from this, the remainder left for drawdown was around £16,713. Mr B says that as 
a result of these actions, he was only expecting to pay around £800 in income tax, but in the 
event £6,640 was applied. This was a consequence of His Majestys Revenue & Customs 
(HMRC) applying a type of emergency tax coding sometimes informally referred to as 
month 1 tax.
Mr B first complained to Mattioli Woods itself. He said that his pay out was much less than 
he had expected. However, the business explained that it hadnt done anything wrong and 
had told Mr B about the various rules which might apply. Still dissatisfied, he brought the 
complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we 
shouldnt uphold it. Mr B has now asked for his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Having considered all the circumstances in this case, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Introduction
My starting point here is that I think the investigator provided a very detailed and 
comprehensive response to both parties. They carefully set out the timeline of events and 
the various contacts the parties had with each other. 
However, theres no real dispute about what happened from a timeline point of view although 
Mr B denies having received some emails from Mattioli Woods. I dont intend to set all this 
out again but Ive looked carefully at everything weve been sent and I can see no reason 
why Mr B would have received some emails, but not others, from his SIPP provider. All the 
businesss emails appeared addressed exactly the same and some contained the types of 
explanatory documents Id expect to see a SIPP provider send out to a client ahead of a 
pension crystallisation event, which is what was happening here.
What the complaint is really about
The question here is simply about whether Mattioli Woods acted unreasonably and whether 
its actions or inactions have caused Mr B any financial loss.
In essence, Mr B says that he was led to believe his income tax liability would be much 
lower. However, Im afraid theres comprehensive evidence that he was given warnings 
showing that a drawdown of this nature would be subject to emergency tax measures. 
Although there is also an abundance of information about this situation available on the 
internet and elsewhere, I do accept that many consumers can find this difficult to understand 
and even somewhat unfair, particularly if income is tight for them. An emergency tax code 
works on a month 1 basis so it assumes that you get one twelfth of the basic annual tax 
allowance - £12,570 for the current tax year - each month and any income above that is 
taxed assuming you will have the same income every month. Many pensions are affected by 
this rule. And additional tax burdens for consumers, in the short-term at least, are well 
documented.
However, Im afraid I dont agree that Mr B wasnt told about this by Mattioli Woods. An email 
was sent to him on 25 August 2022, to which he later responded, and a pdf document about 
emergency tax procedures was attached. And as our investigator has already explained, this 
said:
Following HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) guidance, your pension will be processed 
through payroll using the emergency tax code on a month one basis, until HMRC submit an 
updated tax code [to] our payroll department, if applicable. At this point, any under/over 
payment of tax will be collected or refunded as appropriate.
So, I too think Mattioli Woods made it clear, in August 2022, that Mr Bs pension drawdown 
could be processed using the emergency tax code. And as I say, I think a very modest 
amount of research would have confirmed this to be the case.
In any event, even were I to find that Mattioli Woods hadnt told Mr B the right things, I 
couldnt award him any redress. Thats because, as our investigator has already explained, 
everything Ive seen points to him being able to fully claim back any income tax he shouldnt 
have paid. Put another way, Mr B hasnt lost any money  if he paid too much tax, then he 
should get it back.
Ive noted that after the investigator issued their view Mr B said his relationship with HMRC 
was complicated. I can only speculate as to what that means but my understanding is that 
Mattioli Woods also helped Mr B by sending him the link which could begin the process of 
clawing back any income tax he overpaid.
SummaryIn this decision I have set out why I think Mattioli Woods hasnt done anything wrong. It told 
Mr B he might be liable for an emergency tax bill and it simply couldnt do anything about 
that. And from what I can see, Mr B hasnt actually lost any money,
Nevertheless, I do understand how frustrating these issues can be and Im sorry to have to 
disappoint Mr B. But Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require Mattioli Woods PLC to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman