DRN-1921551
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy because she says that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited has 
unfairly declined a claim she made on her personal sick pay plan. 
 
What happened
In March 2019 Ms G took out a personal sick pay plan with LV. In May 2019 she claimed for 
stress as sadly her mother was terminally ill. Initially, LV declined to consider the claim 
because they said the premiums hadnt been paid. But they subsequently allowed Ms G to 
bring the payments up to date. 
In October 2019 LV declined the claim on the basis that Ms G hadnt evidenced a mental 
health condition that prevented her from working. Ms G complained to LV who said that their 
decision was fair. Unhappy, Ms G complained to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed her complaint and concluded that LV had fairly declined the claim 
based on the medical evidence provided. Ms G then provided a copy of her medical records 
in support of her case. In the meantime, Ms G received around £500 in relation to a Covid-
19 related claim. 
Having reviewed the medical records LV cancelled Ms Gs policy on the basis that she had 
deliberately not declared a number of medical conditions when she took the policy out. They 
said that had she done so they wouldnt have offered her a policy. Our investigator reviewed 
the new information from both sides and thought that LV had acted in line with the relevant 
law when deciding to cancel the policy. 
Ms G asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, she says shes not been 
treated fairly and that LV have been looking for reasons to decline the claim all along. So, I 
need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The decision to decline the claim
Initially LV refused to pay the claim because the premiums werent up to date. However, they 
subsequently allowed Ms G to bring the policy up to date and considered the claim, which I 
think is fair. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that LV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. The policy says that the 
monthly benefit can be paid when: 
Youre too unwell to carry out the main tasks of your occupation, and you arent doing 
any other paid or unpaid work.By main tasks we mean the things which cant 
reasonably be left out of your role or changed by you or your employer. 
Its for Ms G to demonstrate that she has a valid claim, not for LV to show she doesnt. Ms G 
was signed off by her GP on the 29th May 2019 but it doesnt automatically follow that Ms G 
can claim on her policy as she still has to meet the policy definition of incapacity that Ive 
outlined above. 
In this case I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to conclude that theres no clear 
evidence which explains how Ms Gs mental state impacted on her ability to do her job. The 
evidence Ive seen indicates that unfortunately Ms Gs mother was terminally ill and 
understandably this was causing Ms G a lot of worry and stress. But theres no clear 
evidence about how this would have impacted on her ability to do the main tasks of her 
occupation. On the medical certificate the GP described her as having a stress related 
problem and the symptoms he described on the claim questionnaire were difficulty sleeping 
and shaking. 
Ms G also saw a doctor abroad who said she was experiencing reactive anxiety. But again 
theres not a lot of information which explains how this was impacting on Ms Gs mental 
health and her ability to do her job. 
The decision to cancel the policy
Ms G provided copies of her medical records in support of her claim. LV reviewed them in 
detail, which is what Id expect them to do. They said that Ms G hadnt declared a number of 
conditions so they were cancelling the policy and not refunding the premiums. 
As LV says that Ms G incorrectly answered medical questions the law set out in the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. I 
think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Ms Gs case. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to misrepresent 
facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a consumer has taken 
reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. Ms G 
was asked several questions about her medical history when she took out the policy in 
March 2019. These included:
In the last 5 years, regardless of whether youve seen a doctor, required 
treatment or had time off work, have you had:
Joint or muscle pain, any type of arthritis, or a condition affecting your bones, 
joints, muscles or limbs? Including: Gout Ligament, tendon and muscle 
injuries, Carpal tunnel syndrome and repetitive strain injuries, Fractures. 
Other than for conditions that youve already told us about, in the last 2 years 
have you: 
Been under follow up with your GP surgery, or a specialist, hospital or clinic? 
Including: minor injuries or strains, reviews or check-ups that you have been 
asked to attend even if you didntBeen referred to a specialist or had or been advised to have any medical 
investigations?
 
Including: Minor injuries or strains, a blood test or biopsy, ultrasound, X-ray, 
CT scan or MRI scan, ECG or other heart investigation.  
In answer to these questions Ms G declared back problems and migraines. LV applied two 
exclusions for these previous medical conditions. But LV says she should have declared 
more information about her medical history.  
In deciding whether I think Ms G took reasonable care in answering these questions Ive 
reviewed her medical records and taken into account what Ms G has said about her medical 
history. 
Ms G saw an Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) specialist around eight days after she first took 
out the policy. Shed been experiencing symptoms for at least two years before then 
according to her GP notes. And shed also had consultations in 2017 relating to tiredness 
and joint pain, including blood tests which showed raised inflammatory markers. There was 
a further consultation in 2018 relating to ongoing shoulder pain. Ms G said she was seeing a 
physiotherapist. In December 2018 she had a cholecystectomy and a follow up appointment 
shortly afterwards. All of this happened within the two years before the policy was taken out. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ms explanation of why she didnt disclose this information, 
particularly given the proximity of some of her medical problems in relation to the date she 
took out the policy. She says, in summary, that they were normal conditions and that in 
relation to the surgery she made a full recovery. But I think the questions were clear that she 
needed to disclose any conditions which shed had symptoms of, had been investigated for 
or which shed received treatment for. So I dont find her explanation persuasive in the 
circumstances of this case.  
Having taken all of the above into account I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to 
conclude that Ms G should have disclosed information about her cholecystectomy, muscle 
pain, deviated septum and joint pains when answering the questions Ive outlined above. So, 
I think Ms G did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA and I dont think its 
unreasonable for LV to conclude that she did so deliberately. 
As Ms G made a qualifying misrepresentation, LV is entitled to apply the relevant remedy 
available to it under CIDRA. This says, that in cases of deliberate misrepresentation then 
insurer would not have entered into the contract of insurance then the insurer is entitled to 
avoid the policy, decline all claims and retain the premiums paid. 
LV has demonstrated that had Ms G declared her other existing medical conditions they 
wouldnt have offered her cover. Given that I think it is most likely that a deliberate 
misrepresentation did occur I think LV were entitled to decline the claim in full and retain the 
premiums which is what they have done in this case. 
LV has confirmed that it wont seek to recover the money it paid to Ms G in relation to her 
claim for Covid-19, which I think is reasonable. 
My final decisionIm not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman