DRN-1785884
The complaint
Ms O and Mr P complain about Auto Logistic Solutions Limited (ALS) and the total loss 
payment they secured from the Third-Party Insurer after their car was written off.
What happened
In November 2018, Ms O and Mr P were involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. They 
instructed ALS to manage their claim on their behalf on a non-fault basis.
ALS instructed an independent engineer to inspect Ms O and Mr Ps car. The engineer 
deemed the car a total loss and valued it at £4,100 less the salvage value of £615. ALS 
wrote to the Third-Party Insurer, who Ill refer to as E. They explained that Ms O and Mr P 
were disputing the valuation of the car but requested they make an interim payment while 
the dispute was processed.
Shortly after, E made a payment of £3,485 to Ms O and Mr P. But Ms O and Mr P didnt think 
this was a fair offer that allowed them to purchase a similar car of a similar specification. 
They provided examples of cars for sale at the time on an online car retailer, and ASL 
forward this to the independent engineer to review. The independent engineer eventually 
agreed to value Ms O and Mr Ps car at a final amount of £4,725. Ms O and Mr P accepted 
this valuation and signed the relevant acceptance forms.
ASL provided the increased valuation evidence and Ms O and Mr Ps acceptance to E. But E 
refused to increase the original payment they made, explaining that thought the original 
valuation was fair and in line with industry guidelines. ASL attempted to challenge this with E 
but E refused to change their stance, so they made Ms O and Mr P aware of this. Ms O and 
Mr P were unhappy ASL couldnt recover the additional amount, so they raised a complaint.
Ms O and Mr P complained that the car had been undervalued initially. And because E 
wouldnt increase their offer, theyd be left financially out of pocket and unable to replace 
their car for a similar one. So, they wanted ASL to pay the difference and recover it from the 
E directly afterwards.
ASL didnt agree. They thought it was the responsibility of E to pay the difference. And they 
thought theyd made reasonable efforts to claim it from E on Ms O and Mr Ps behalf. So, 
they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and because of this, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Ms O and Mr P were unhappy with this response, so they 
referred their complaint to The Claims Management Ombudsman, a Financial Ombudsman 
service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He thought the original valuation of 
the car had been fair, in line with industry guidelines. And he thought ALS had pursued an 
increase in valuation reasonably with E. But he didnt think ALS had made it clear to Ms O 
and Mr P that E may refuse to increase their offer even if new valuation information was 
provided. And because of this, he thought Ms O and Mr P were left assuming theyd receive 
a further payment and when this didnt materialise, he thought it caused them upset and 
frustration. So, he recommended ALS pay Ms O and Mr P a total amount of £150 to 
recognise this.
ALS responded providing a call recording which showed they made Mr P aware of the 
dispute from E in May 2019. But as this was after Ms O and Mr P signed the acceptance 
forms, our investigator didnt think this changed his view.
Ms O and Mr P also didnt agree. They maintained their belief that as ALS hadnt made them 
aware the increase in valuation was subject to Es agreement, ALS should pay them the 
difference and recover it from E directly. They thought the claim shouldve been taken to 
court where they felt their claim wouldve been successful. They also didnt think the 
investigators view took into consideration the taxi expenses they incurred during the period 
the dispute was ongoing.
Our investigator responded explaining his view remained the same. He didnt think ALS had 
acted unfairly by not taking the claim to court and thought, based on the valuation 
information hed seen, it was unlikely the court wouldve found in Ms O and Mr Ps favour. 
He also didnt think ASL should be held responsible for any taxi expenses Ms O and Mr P 
incurred as they were after the hire car had been taken back and Ms O and Mr P had had 
the payment calculated from the first valuation, which he thought was fair. So, he didnt think 
ALS should pay anything more than the £150 he first recommended. Ms O and Mr P 
remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I think it would be useful for me to explain how Ive looked at the complaint and come 
to my decision. Up until 31 March 2019, Accident Management Companys (AMC) such as 
ASL were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And complaints about AMCs 
were dealt with by the Legal Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the regulation of AMCs switched 
to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to the Claims Management 
Ombudsman. For the events Ms O and Mr P are complaining about that took place before 
this change in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims Management 
Regulator and Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken. 
And before I explain my reasoning, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on 
Ms O and Mr P. Ive no doubt it wouldve been a stressful situation for them having been 
involved in an accident and then for their car to have been written off. I can understand they 
would need to replace their car and I appreciate theyd expect to be able to replace it for a 
car of a similar make and specification. So, when they felt they were unable to do so with the 
payment they received, I can understand their upset and frustration. 
But crucially, it wasnt ASL who decided the value of Ms O and Mr Ps car. This was the 
responsibility of the independent engineer, who are an independent third party. So, Im 
unable to hold ASL responsibly for their actions. And Im also unable to hold ASL 
responsible for Es decision not to accept the higher valuation put to them. E are an entirely 
separate regulated business. And there is no legal requirement on E to accept the higher 
valuation put before them. Because of this, Im unable to say its ASLs responsibility to 
cover the cost of Es decision not to increase their offer. But what I can consider is the service ASL provided to Ms O and Mr P directly. So, Ive 
thought about the information ASL provided to Ms O and Mr P at the time they accepted the 
increased valuation. And Ive also thought about how ASL handled Ms O and Mr Ps dispute 
over the valuation, and whether they handled this fairly and reasonably. And having done so, 
I do think they couldve done more.
Ive seen Ms O and Mr P raised their concerns about the original valuation immediately after 
it was received. ASL made E aware of this and asked for an interim payment to be received 
while the dispute was handled. I think this was fair for ASL to do, as it ensured Ms O and Mr 
P received a payment much sooner than it wouldve been had the dispute been settled 
beforehand.
Ive seen ASL then took the information supplied to them by Ms O and Mr P and made this 
available for the independent engineer to consider. And in doing so, the valuation was 
increase and this increase was put to E. So, I think ASL did everything they reasonably 
could to support Ms O and Mr Ps dispute to secure an increased amount for them.
Unfortunately, E didnt agree with the rationale behind the increase valuation. Specifically, 
they explained the first valuation was based on independent market guides which fell in line 
with industry standards. And this was why this was the felt the first valuation they felt was 
fair. The valuation as increased based on similar cars found online, but crucially these prices 
were retail prices. So, the prices found online do not necessarily reflect the value of the car 
itself, only the price the seller wants to secure for it. I understand why Ms O and Mr P think 
this is information that the valuation shouldve been based on as they would need to 
purchase a replacement on a retail basis. But this isnt the way the industry calculate 
valuations.
 And I understand why Ms O and Mr P felt court wouldve been the next step to take. But for 
ASL to take a claim to court, I think theyd need to be reasonably certain the claim would be 
successful as it would incur costs that theyd be responsible for if the claim wasnt upheld. 
And considering the cost of the difference in valuations, the valuations found on the market 
guides and the potential court costs, I dont think it would be fair for me to say ASL made an 
error when deciding not to pursue the claim through that avenue. So, I think ASL pursued Ms 
O and Mr Ps dispute fairly and took all reasonable steps to secure a further payment from E. 
So, I cant say they did anything wrong for this aspect of the complaint.
And I dont think it would be fair to hold ASL responsible for taxi costs Ms O and Mr P 
incurred. While I appreciate Ms O and Mr P werent happy with the first valuation that was 
provided, industry guidelines usually allow for a hire car to be provided for no more than a 
week after a payment has been received. In this instance, Ms O and Mr P had a hire car for 
a much longer period. So, I think ASL took steps to keep Ms O and Mr P in a hire car for 
longer than they needed too, and this helped to mitigate their losses while the dispute was 
handled. And ASL couldnt control Es decision to refuse to issue a further payment nor can I 
hold them responsible for this. So, I dont think its fair to hold ASL responsible for costs 
incurred after the hire car was taken back as I think theyd done all they could do to support 
Ms O and Mr Ps situation.
But Ive seen no evidence that shows ASL made Ms O and Mr P aware E may not accept 
the increased valuation before they signed the acceptance form for the increased amount of 
£4725. Because of this, I think Ms O and Mr P assumed a further payment was guaranteed 
and they waited some time to receive this. So, when they were told some months later that E 
had refused to increase their offer, I think this wouldve been upsetting for them. And I think 
this should be recognised.
Putting things rightAs I think ASL couldve done more to make Ms O and Mr P aware the payment E made may 
not be increased, Ive thought about what ASL should do to put things right.
I think Ms O and Mr P were expecting an additional payment and I think its reasonable to 
assume this wouldve been put towards the purchase of a new car or covering funds theyd 
used themselves in the interim. So, when they were told this payment wouldnt be received, I 
think it wouldve been upsetting and left them in a worse off financial situation then they were 
anticipating. 
So, I think ASL should make a payment of £150 to recognise this upset and the impact it had 
on Ms O and Mr Ps financial plans at that time. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms O and Mr Ps complaint about Auto Logistic 
Solutions Limited and direct them to do the following:
Make a payment of £150 to recognise the upset caused to Ms O and Mr P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman