DRN-3320380
The complaint
Mr A and Mr P are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) declined their travel insurance claim. They are also unhappy with
how the claim has been handled by Mapfre.
What happened
Mr A and Mr P took out annual, multi-trip travel insurance on 9 April 2019. The policy started
on 30 April 2019 and expired on 29 April 2020. The policy was underwritten by Mapfre. They
paid £139.94 for the policy.
Mr A and Mr Ps intended travel dates were from 18 April 2020 to 4 May 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) 
formerly known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)  advised against all but
essential international travel. Mr A and Mr Ps trip was therefore cancelled.
They managed to receive a refund for their trip but there were two remaining costs which 
they hadnt had refunds for. The first was for train tickets going to the airport on 18 April 
2020  the cost for this was £50. The second was a hotel booking theyd made on 3 May 
2020 and the cost for this was £151.28. So, Mr A and Mr P submitted a claim to Mapfre. It 
reviewed the claim and declined it. It said Mr A and Mr Ps policy cover ended on 29 April 
2020 and theyd declined the auto-renewal quote that was sent to them on 3 March 2020. 
The quote wasnt accepted and therefore Mr A and Mrs P had no cover for the tail end of 
their intended trip. Mapfre also said as the policy expired prior to their intended return date, 
they had no cover for the full duration of their trip.
Unhappy with Mapfre, Mr A and Mr P brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator
looked into and said he didnt think Mapfre had unfairly declined their claim. He also said
even if Mapfre assessed the claim up until the date the policy expired (29 April 2020), they 
had an excess of £50 per person (£100 total excess on the policy), there would be no refund
due on the claim.
And, in terms of how the claim has been handled, he said due to the impact of the Covid-19
pandemic on the travel insurance industry, some delays were to be expected and he didnt
think it was fair for Mapfre to compensate them for delays it couldnt have foreseen or fully
prevented.
Mr A and Mr P disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by
an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. They said:
Theyve had continuous cover for the last 10 years and they fully intended to renew 
as normal before taking the trip.
Mapfre refused to cover Covid-19 related claims at renewal so he didnt think there 
was any point in taking out a policy if a liability arising during the cover period could 
be discounted. 
Our investigator didnt explain how a liability arising during the period of cover could 
be discounted by Mapfre and they believe while they had the insurance policy until 
29 April 2020, Mapfre should pay.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 January 2022 to both parties. 
I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend on upholding Mr A and Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why
below.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I can see from Mapfres response about the claim that it was declined. This was because the
policy ran from 30 April 2019 to 29 April 2020. And Mr A and Mr P are claiming for 
cancellation of a trip that was due to start on 18 April 2020 and ended on 4 May 2020.
Mapfre also says as the policy ended before the trip was due to finish, there is no cover
available on the policy because Mr A and Mr P didnt renew their policy despite being sent
their renewal notice on 3 March 2020.
Mr A and Mr P have said they didnt renew the policy because they were informed by Mapfre
that there would be no cover available, following renewal, for Covid-19 related claims. So,
they decided not to renew the policy.
Ive considered what Mapfre and Mr A and Mrs P have said. Strictly speaking, I agree with
Mapfre that as the policy had expired part way through the intended trip, there would be no
cover available. Therefore, on this basis, its not unfair that Mapfre has declined to cover the
claim.
My remit, however, also permits to consider the complaint overall on a fair and reasonable 
basis. Having thought about this, I can see it would be fair and reasonable for Mapfre to
accept the claim on the basis of the policy expiring on 29 April 2020. So, in other words,
consider the claim based on the policy expiring on 29 April 2020 which would mean that any
costs arising up to that point would be considered under the claim.
I understand Mr A and Mr P have claimed two costs which they didnt receive a refund for.
The first one, on 18 April 2020, of £50 for the train tickets to get to the airport on the day of 
their intended travel. And, the second one, for £151.28 on 3 May 2020 for their hotel 
booking.
As the policy had expired on 29 April 2020, Im not persuaded the second cost for the hotel
booking would be covered under Mr A and Mr Ps travel policy. Mr A and Mr P didnt renew
their policy and Mapfre isnt obligated to provide cover for an event that Mr A and Mr P didnt
have cover for. The insurance contract had expired and Mapfre has no liability to provide
cover for this aspect of the claim.
However, I do think the £50 cost of the train tickets for both Mr A and Mr P ought to be
covered under the policy as this was booked for 18 April 2020 and at this point, Mr A and MrP did have cover for the on their policy. I think this is the most fair and reasonable way of
resolving the matter and would be the right approach to take in the circumstances.
Ive thought about what happens in the scenario if the claim for £50 is paid by Mapfre.
Ordinarily there wouldnt be an issue but, in this case, Ive noted that the excess that applies
on the policy exceeds the claim amount of £50.
Having looked at the terms and conditions of Mr A and Mr Ps policy, I can see theres an
excess of £50 per person. So, even if I were to ask Mapfre to pay the claim of £50, this
would be subject to the policy terms and conditions on the cancellation section of the policy,
and subject to the policy excesses that apply in the context of each claim and the relevant
section.
In Mr A and Mr Ps circumstances, while I accept that paying the claim would be the next
stage, the excess that would be applied to the policy for the cancellation section is £100 (£50
each for Mr A and for Mr P). Therefore, even though the policy would cover the £50 cost
theyve suffered, there would be nothing due to them as they would first have to pay £100
which is the policy excess.
In terms of how the claim has been handled, while I accept that there were some delays, this
was an impact of the unusual and unprecedented situation surrounding the Covid-19
pandemic. Having looked at what happened, I dont think Mapfre did anything wrong in this
aspect.
Overall, therefore while I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mapfre to settle the claim, 
as its subject to the usual policy limits and excesses, this would result in the claim showing 
as Mr A and Mr P not having suffered a loss. 
As such, taking everything into account, I dont think the claim has been declined unfairly 
and it follows that I dont intend on asking Mapfre to do anything further.
Mr A and Mr P responded to my provisional decision. They said the following:
When the policy came up for renewal, Mapfre refused to cover Mr A and Mr P for 
coronavirus related cancellations and they were then unilaterally uninsured.
Its inaccurate to say they declined cover. Mapfre chose to change the cover in a way 
that made the cover unfit for purpose. They were left with a liability for the hotel which 
would have been reasonable to expect to be covered at renewal, except that Mapfre 
refused to insure them for coronavirus. This wasnt fair.
We have not explained why a liability incurred during the insurance period can be 
discounted just because that liability/loss would be crystalised at a later date. Mr A 
and Mr P booked and paid for the hotel during the insured period.
Mapfre did not respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered carefully Mr A and Mr Ps further comments. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.  
I appreciate Mr A and Mr P think their claim has been declined unfairly. However, the travel 
insurance contract they had with Mapfre started on 30 April 2019 and expired on 29 April 2020. They were given the opportunity to renew their travel policy by Mapfre and this was 
sent to them in March 2020. I do understand the reasons why Mr A and Mr P didnt renew 
their policy with Mapfre. But that didnt mean they couldnt take out a policy for the cover 
they wanted with another insurer. So, not only did they not renew the policy, but as far as Im 
aware, they had no cover in place whatsoever once their policy with Mapfre had expired. 
Mr A and Mr P booked their trip while they had the insurance in place. The policy they did 
have expired before the end of that trip. So, in effect that meant they were only insured up to 
the point of when the policy was in place. Theyd taken out an annual policy and the 
premium they paid in return for that cover was from 30 April 2019 to 29 April 2020. It isnt fair 
or reasonable to expect Mapfre to cover a claim for which theres no contract in place for it to 
do so. 
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Mapfre declined Mr A and Mr Ps 
claim unfairly. And, I dont think Mapfre needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr A and Mr Ps complaint against Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman