DRN-1705309
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1988 to protect Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage 
repayments. Neither party can confirm how or where the sale took place. The PPI provided 
them with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for 
it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) Ive reached my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. Birmingham Midshires cant provide a copy of the policy document so Ive relied on 
one from the nearest available date.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say it wasnt made clear to them the PPI was optional. They felt they had no 
choice and it was packaged with the mortgage. Birmingham Midshires says its more likely 
than not the optional nature was made clear before the sale concluded. 
I cant know what was discussed during the sale, or how the PPI was presented. And 
Birmingham Midshires no longer has any paperwork from the sale  but thats not surprising 
or unreasonable given the sale was over 30 years ago. Its not easy in cases like this where 
the information is limited but, on balance, I havent seen enough evidence to fairly conclude 
Birmingham Midshires didnt make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs S didnt 
agree to take it out. I have thought carefully about their comments, but I also have to 
consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they recall. 
Its not clear whether advice was given so, to be fair to Mr and Mrs S, Ive considered the 
case as though a recommendation was made. This means the bank had to do more as it 
had to check if the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs S. It doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable 
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S were both entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if they were 
sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to this for up to 12 months for all successful 
accident and sickness claims. They said they had good redundancy entitlements too, but the 
PPI would have allowed them to protect any lump sum redundancy payment(s) giving 
increased financial stability at an already difficult time. The PPI would have allowed them to 
use their savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for 
their future needs. 
They told us they also had life insurance and death-in-service benefits. But these offer 
different kinds of protection and wouldnt help with monthly mortgage repayments in the 
same way as PPI. Their mortgage was a significant long-term financial commitment and their 
home was at risk if they didnt keep up with the repayments. So I think the PPI couldve been 
a useful benefit in addition to Mr and Mrs Ss existing arrangements if they were sick or lost 
their job(s). 
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont think Mr and Mrs S would have made a different decision 
about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall, I think 
they would still have taken out the policy. I say this as Mr and Mrs S werent affected by any 
of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as those affecting self-employed 
people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As they couldve benefitted from the 
full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed better information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
I dont know when the cost of the policy was made clear, and Birmingham Midshires cant 
confirm the cost at the start of the policy. But from what I know of the cost later in the policy 
life, it seems it would have been competitively priced and it was apparently affordable. So I 
think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if better information about the cost 
had been provided.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman