DRN-2025132
The complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K travelled back to the UK. He was carrying a bag which contained £2200 in cash in an 
envelope. He says he was asked by the airline staff to place the bag in an overhead locker, 
which was some way from where he was sitting.
Around four days later, Mr K noticed the money had gone. He visited his local police station 
to report the loss. He got in touch with UKI to make a claim on his travel insurance policy.
UKI turned down Mr Ks claim. It relied on a number of policy conditions to do so, including 
that a policyholder was required to take reasonable care of their personal money; to provide 
proof of ownership of the money; to take reasonable steps to recover the money; and to 
report the loss to the police within 24 hours of discovering the loss. It also said it didnt cover 
money thatd been left unattended unless itd been left in locked accommodation, safe, 
safety deposit box or motor vehicle. It felt Mr K hadnt complied with these policy conditions 
and that hed left the money unattended.
Mr K was unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that Mr K 
had reported the loss of the money to the Police within 24 hours of discovering it. But he 
thought, given that Mr K had told us he was sitting away from the locker his bag was stored 
in, that the money had been left unattended. So he thought it was fair for UKI to rely on this 
policy term to turn down Mr Ks claim.
Mr K disagreed. He said the bag had been with him, but the airline staff had made him put 
the bag into the overhead locker. The envelope of money had been too large to put in his 
pocket. UKI had set him up to fail by not telling him to get in touch with the airline to see if it 
could recover the money.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think UKI has treated Mr K fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules and guidance say an insurer must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And they mustnt turn claims down unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ks policy to decide if UKI has applied them fairly to his claim.
Section J of the policy covers the loss or theft of money while a policyholder is on their trip, 
up to a limit of £500 per insured person. But this section of the policy also contains a number 
of special conditions and things the policy doesnt cover. One of these terms says:
We will not cover
Any claim for personal money that you have left unattended unless it has been stolen from 
your locked personal accommodation, a safe or safety deposit box or motor vehicle.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr K said happened. I accept when he had the bag in his 
possession and close by, the money was attended. But hes also told us that the overhead 
locker he placed the bag into wasnt by where he was sitting. So it seems to me that he 
wasnt in a position to be able to see anyone getting into the bag, or to intervene if they did.
On that basis, while I sympathise with Mr Ks position because I appreciate he was asked to 
put the bag in the overhead locker, I think the money was unattended. This means I think it 
was fair for UKI to turn down the claim.
Ive thought about what Mr Ks said about the money being kept in the bag because the 
envelope was too large. It seems to me Mr K couldve potentially placed the envelope in the 
seat pocket or removed the money from the envelope. But in any event, I dont think this is 
enough for me to reasonably find that UKI should pay the claim.
Mr K says UKI set him up to fail because it didnt tell him to contact the airline when he first 
called. I dont think that was UKIs responsibility though. I think, given the extent of the loss, 
it mightve been reasonable for Mr K to get in touch with the airline to see if itd found the 
envelope or the money. And Im not telling UKI to pay the claim on this basis.
Overall, Ive decided it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr Ks claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman