DRN-1374404
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC froze his account while it investigated some 
transactions. He says he couldn't use his account for more than a month and that Barclays 
didn't tell him when it had finished its review and when his account had been unblocked. He 
says he managed to make some payments but that Barclays reversed these, so he's been 
left owing money. 
What happened
Barclays received notification from another bank that two credits of £700 and £2,000 to Mr 
B's account were fraudulent. It blocked Mr B's account on 8 October 2019 while it 
investigated what had happened. It completed its review on 12 November. It concluded the 
credits hadn't been authorised by the third party account holder and it returned them.
Since the complaint was referred to this service, Barclays agreed that its review took longer 
than it should have and offered Mr B £300 compensation. Our adjudicator thought the bank's 
offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B didn't agree. He said he was told there was a balance of around £3,000 on his account. 
So he made payments totalling £2,804 to a payment service provider to purchase a car. 
Barclays returned those payments meaning Mr B owes money to the payment service 
provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B told us £700 was from his friend who owed him money. The £2,000 was from the same 
friend but neither of them can explain where this money came from or why it was transferred 
to Mr B.
The bank's investigation concluded that both payments to Mr B had been made without the 
account holder's authorisation or consent. I find this to be a reasonable conclusion, based on 
the information I've seen. So I think Barclays was right to return the money.
The bank needed some time to carry out its investigation and during this time Mr B's account 
was frozen. I don't think that was unreasonable. Mr B has explained how this made things 
difficult for him and he had to borrow money from friends. But the bank continued to pay 
direct debits on the account and it would have allowed Mr B to withdraw money from his 
account in one of its branches - but it seems Mr B had already spent the income he'd 
received that month. The only money available in the account was the credits which were 
under investigation. And the bank acted reasonably in not making that money available to Mr 
B until it had concluded whether it was rightly his to spend.The bank has accepted that it should have concluded its investigation more quickly and kept 
Mr B better informed. I think its offer to pay him £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr B was able to make two payments to a payment service provider to purchase a car. But 
this was using the money from the fraudulent credits. Barclays rightly reversed these 
transactions which has left Mr B owing money to the payment service provider. He says 
Barclays had told him he had an account balance of £3,000. And he couldn't check where 
the credits had come from because the bank wouldn't let him. But he knew it was unusual for 
him to have a balance of this amount in his account and he knew the bank was investigating 
the unusual credits he'd received. He was unable to explain where at least £2,000 had come 
from and knew this shouldn't have been credited to him. So he must reasonably have 
realised that that money was not available for him to spend. 
I'm sorry for the position in which Mr B finds himself, but I don't find that is because of 
anything Barclays has done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
Mr B £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman