DRN-2314315
The complaint
Mr W complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
considering his claim under a legal expenses insurance policy connected to a professional 
indemnity insurance policy. He wants the additional costs he has paid to deal with the matter 
to be repaid, his claims reviewed by a barrister, and compensation.
What happened
Mr W had the benefit of a professional indemnity insurance policy for a limited company he 
owned with AXA, which included legal expenses cover for certain matters. He had a dispute 
about the variation of a lease and possible increase of service charge of the property where 
he lived and worked to include loft space, and made a claim for legal assistance. Mr W also 
said that the freeholder of the property owed him money for work he carried out that 
shouldve been paid by the freeholder under the lease (though Mr W owned shares in the 
freeholder). Mr W mentioned other claims, but they were not covered by the policy.
The claim was declined on the basis that the insurance policy didnt cover the type of dispute 
Mr W faced. Mr W felt that AXA didnt properly consider all aspects of his case as he said he 
had a property dispute and a contract claim arising from the same background situation. He 
said that the legal helpline provided as part of the policys benefits agreed with him that the 
claim should be covered. Mr W also said it took too long for AXA to consider his complaint 
and the solicitors who advised AXA hadnt acted in his best interests.
Mr W complained to AXA. It said that solicitors had been instructed by AXA to advise on 
whether Mr Ws claims were covered by the policy and its terms and conditions (not other 
policies held by Mr W)  this meant the solicitors client was AXA, not Mr W. 
AXA added that it had been advised that neither the property or contract claims were 
covered by the legal expenses insurance policy as the policy excluded contract claims 
arising from service charges (paid to cover the costs of work on the property, amongst other 
things) and the contract cover only covered contracts regarding the sale of goods and 
services (not claims arising in respect of a lease). The legal advice was that the property 
cover didnt apply to Mr Ws claims as they were about the refusal to vary a lease and was 
subject to an exclusion about negotiation about terms of tenancies. The solicitors had 
advised that the property dispute section covered negligence, damage, nuisance and issues 
with short term tenancies, not dispute over use of roof space between a leaseholder and the 
freeholder or the variation of a lease. 
AXA said that it was entitled to rely on legal advice and had obtained two legal opinions from 
the advising solicitors which agreed the claims werent covered, either under the contract or 
property sections. It said that it had responded to Mr W within response times and the 
helpline denied telling Mr W that his claims were covered.
Mr W complained to us. The investigators view was that AXA wasnt at fault. She said that 
AXA was able to rely on independent legal advice received, and it instructed a suitably 
qualified solicitor to advise. In the investigators view, the advice wasnt obviously incorrect 
so if Mr W was unhappy, he had to provide an alternative legal opinion supporting his 
position that the claims were covered. She noted that having listened to the call recording, 
the legal helpline refused to advise Mr W about whether his claims were covered by the 
policy and his complaint had been considered within the eight weeks allowed. The 
investigator also pointed out that Mr W had raised a point about data protection, but this was 
a matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mr W disagreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to AXA, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im going to focus on the core of Mr Ws complaint, which is about the decline of his claim 
under the legal expenses insurance policy provided by his professional indemnity policy. His 
points about complaints handling (which was undertaken within the eight week period) and 
data protection (a matter for the ICO though Mr W appears to have consented to use of the 
data when making an online claim) are outside the jurisdiction of this service.
AXA is an insurer. When theres a dispute about whether a claim is covered by a policy, 
insurers are able to seek legal advice and they are the client, not the insured. AXA instructed 
a suitably qualified lawyer (a partner in a law firm) to advise on whether there was cover 
under the contracts section and the property dispute section. This service cant review legal 
advice, but it can look to see if theres an obvious fundamental error within the advice that a 
layman or AXA shouldve noticed before relying on it. 
Having read the advice, while there are minor factual errors that dont affect the legal 
position, theres no obvious fundamental error and its clear that the solicitor was looking at 
the matter independently and considered Mr Ws points. For example, the contract claim is 
about work Mr W says shouldve been paid by the freeholder using the money from the 
service charge; it isnt obviously wrong to say that this claim arising from an issue with the 
service charge and is excluded by the policy. To use another example relating to the 
property dispute section, Mr Ws claim is that he says hes entitled to use the roof space and 
the lease should be amended to reflect this  it isnt obviously wrong to say this is a dispute 
about the terms of the lease to be negotiated as Mr W wants the lease varied to reflect his 
use of the loft, but objects to the terms the freeholder seeks.
Given the advice is not obviously wrong, is detailed and from a suitably qualified lawyer, I 
cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to rely upon it. While Mr W has put 
forward arguments why he disagrees with the advice given, and AXA has engaged with 
those arguments, ultimately AXA offered, as this service would expect, to review if Mr W 
obtains his own legal opinion and it supports his position that his claim is covered by the 
policy.
Mr W says that the legal helpline said his claims would be covered by the policy. Ive listened 
to the call and the adviser repeatedly tells Mr W that such advice cant be given as its a 
matter for the insurer and the helpline is for general legal advice only. Its also clear from the 
call that Mr W and the adviser didnt discuss the position in detail and there was much 
confusion; for example, as Mr W had a commercial policy, the adviser thought a commercial 
lease was being discussed which was not corrected by Mr W when he was asked if this was 
right.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
13 April 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman