DRN-4319761
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money she lost when she 
was the victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
In late 2022, Miss B was looking to get some building work done at her property. She posted 
an advert on a job listings website and was contacted by a builder who said they were 
interested in doing the work. The builder visited the property and provided a quote, which 
Miss B accepted. Miss B then signed a contract with the builder, made two initial payments 
to them and  after the builder sent her a photo showing the work had been started  made 
a third payment. Ive set out the payments Miss B made to the builder below:
Date Amount
17 October 2022 £2,000
17 October 2022 £2,000
17 October 2022 £11,000
Miss B says the builder then started asking for more money. She says she told them she 
couldnt pay anything further and the builder then suggested she took out a loan. But when 
she refused to take out a loan, the builder stopped responding to her and hasnt carried out 
any more work. Miss B then reported the payments she had made to Barclays as a scam.
Barclays investigated but said it felt this was a civil dispute between Miss B and the builder, 
so it didnt agree to refund the payments. Miss B wasnt satisfied with Barclay response, so 
referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think there was enough 
evidence to say the builder had set out from the beginning with the intention to scam Miss B. 
So they didnt think Barclays should have to refund the money she had lost. Miss B 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Barclays should refund the money Miss B lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Miss B says she checked the builders website and looked at online reviews of them before 
agreeing for them to do the work. But I wouldnt necessarily expect a scammer to have put 
together a website or been able to arrange positive online reviews. The builder was also 
registered on the government register of companies for more than a year before they 
contacted Miss E, which I wouldnt necessarily expect of a scammer.
The builder drew up a contract setting out the work to be done, when it would start and when 
it was to be finished by  which both they and Miss B signed. But I wouldnt necessarily 
expect a scammer to have signed a contract, or to have produced one on a personalised 
company form  as this one was.
The builder also started the work when agreed, including arranging for scaffolding to be put 
up around Miss Bs property. But Id usually expect a scammer to do as little work as 
possible in order to get the maximum possible profit in the shortest period of time. So the 
builder here appears to have done more work, and more complex work, than Id expect from 
a scammer who never intended to complete the work.
The bank the payments were sent to has also told us that it hasnt received any other scam 
reports against the account. But scammers usually target a number of people at once, in 
order to make as much money as possible before the scam is uncovered. So Id expect to 
see other scam reports to the same account around the same time if the builder was 
operating a scam.
Miss B has mentioned that the builder asked her to make payments into his colleagues 
account and that tradesmen came to her property on several occasions and acted 
threateningly, saying they hadnt been paid by the builder. But while I appreciate this will 
have been very distressing for Miss B and suggests the builder wasnt acting professionally, 
I dont think it shows they intended to scam her from the beginning.
Miss B has also shown that it was arranged for the builders company to be dissolved shortly 
after the payments she made. But I dont think this necessarily shows the builder knew he 
wouldnt be able to complete the work or otherwise intended to scam Miss B, rather than that 
their business ultimately failed.
I appreciate how Miss B feels about this case, and that the work at her property was left 
unfinished and she has had to pay for another builder to finish the work. But I must make a 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. And, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I think its more likely the builder here was attempting to operate as a legitimate 
business at the time and that other factors ultimately meant the building work wasnt 
completed. I dont think the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud 
Miss B, or that she has been the victim of a scam here.So I dont think the payments Miss B made to the builder are covered under the CRM code, 
or that Barclays should be required to refund the money she lost.
I sympathise with the position Miss B has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the builder. But I can 
only look at Barclays responsibilities and, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think 
it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for the money she lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman