DRN-3322575
The complaint
Mr B complains about PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) for the way it allocated 
payments made to his credit account, and the way it has communicated about this. He wants 
PayPal to reinstate his previous offer arrangement and instead allocate his payments to the 
balances which were due to incur interest first. 
What happened
Mr B held a PayPal credit account. 
This account offered specific promotions on purchases from some retailers, and also 
standard offers depending on the value of the purchase. At the date of Mr Bs July 2021 
statement, he had a residual balance of around £800 owing.
In August 2021, Mr B made a purchase from retailer S for around £1000. This purchase was 
on a promotional offer of 0% interest for 24 months. 
Mr Bs August statement was generated on 23 August 2021.
In late August 2021, just after his statement had been produced, Mr B made a payment for 
around £140 to his account. 
In September 2021, Mr B made two more purchases using his credit account, including one 
which qualified for a standard offer of 4 months interest free. 
On 17 September 2021, Mr B made a purchase from retailer A for around £1000. This 
purchase qualified for a standard offer of 4 months interest free. 
On 20 September 2021, Mr B made a payment of around £600 to his credit account. This, 
plus his earlier payment of £140, were allocated against his August statement balance. 
On 24 September 2021, Mr Bs September statement was generated. This did not show the 
purchase from A as it took place after the statement cut-off date but did show the additional 
purchases made in mid-August, and the payments Mr B had made in late August and on 20 
September 2021.
Mr Bs purchase from A was then added to his October 2021 statement. 
On 12 October 2021, Mr B made payments to his account totalling around £1150. These 
were allocated against his September 2021 statement balance. This settled the purchase 
from S, but left the purchase from A outstanding, with a much shorter interest free period.  
Mr B complained to PayPal. He felt that he had lost out on the longer interest free promotion 
unfairly and was now under pressure to pay off the full balance if he did not want to incur 
interest. 
PayPal did not uphold his complaint. It pointed to the credit agreement which set out the 
allocation of payments, and that payments would first be allocated to statemented balances, 
before any residue was put to balances which had not yet been included on a statement. 
Mr B complained to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and did not recommend upholding the 
complaint. He considered that PayPal had acted in line with the credit agreement. During the 
course of the investigation, PayPal offered Mr B a goodwill gesture of £20. 
Mr B did not accept the view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr B is upset here. He has clearly made efforts to pay off payments in the 
expectation that he was managing the balances most efficiently. I understand that he uses 
an online dashboard to view his balances and this updates more regularly than his 
statements, so it appeared to him that his payments would credit the balance with the least 
favourable terms first. 
I do, however, agree with my colleagues view and do not uphold this complaint. The terms 
operated by PayPal make clear that the payments will be allocated in a particular order, 
towards the balance which appeared on the most recent statement first. Only if the payment 
cleared the balance would the remainder of the payment be put towards purchases which 
have not yet reached the statement. 
It is unfortunate that it took so long for the purchase from A to complete and to appear on Mr 
Bs statement, especially when a payment he made 4 days after his purchase from A was 
processed beforehand. I understand Mr Bs frustration at this, and that this processing time 
for the purchase from A meant that his October payment was used against the earlier 
purchase. 
That said, I cannot say that PayPal has acted wrongly as it has complied with the terms it set 
out. I understand that Mr B feels that it is unreasonable to expect consumers to know the 
intricacies of the terms dealing with allocation of payments and that these should be more 
clearly explained on the dashboard, but I think that reasonable reference was made to the 
statement date and due dates, and where the allocation of payments was set out, on the 
monthly statements. 
I understand that Mr B feels that the way the information on the dashboard is presented 
contradicts the more traditional statement information, but as my colleague explained we are 
not able to comment on broader processes operated by businesses, or their interfaces. 
In this situation I am satisfied that the paper statements and terms which Mr B was sent did 
adequately explain how his payments would be allocated. 
Consequently, whilst I understand that this will be disappointing to Mr B, I do not uphold his 
complaint and do not ask PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and do not ask PayPal 
(Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman