DRN-2563970
The complaint
Mr M complains that he got poor service from Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
While the account in question is in the joint names of Mr and Mr M, I shall refer for simplicity 
to Mr M  whos brought the complaint to this service. Mr M visited his branch of Nationwide 
in October 2019.  He wanted to complete a loan agreement (approved online) to consolidate 
his debts and later, make transfers to other lenders.
Mr M complained that he was discriminated against and victimised due to his disfigurement. 
He said he spent a long time in the branch when providing evidence of his income (which 
Nationwide wanted to see) - and, later, when trying to make the transfers to other lenders. 
He said he didnt sign the loan agreement or reviewed its terms and conditions. It wasnt 
therefore enforceable  and he wouldnt make the repayments to it. Nationwide made a 
mistake in their response letter as they said the restrictions on withdrawals from his joint 
account (with his father) were £50 per day, not £50 per week.
Nationwide said that when Mr S visited the branch, they reviewed his proof of income  as 
they needed to for them to agree Mr Ms loan. Initially they werent sure they could accept 
what Mr M had given the, so this took some time. But after a while, it was approved, and the 
loan was set up. Later in October 2019, Mr M visited the branch again and wanted to pay off 
a loan with another lender. Because there was a restriction on the amount of money Mr M 
could withdraw, they needed to contact Mr Ms father (the other joint account party) to agree 
this. They were correct in doing that. They said Mr M became angry and shouted in the 
branch. They didnt think they gave a poor level of service.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
She said Nationwide were right to review the proof of income and to get agreement from the 
other joint account holder to the transfer of money.  But this did obviously take some time to 
sort out. Nationwide had told her that the CCTV footage wasnt available, and so couldnt be 
reviewed. She couldnt comment on what actually happened in the branch. On the loan, Mr 
M had told us that he had read its terms and conditions  so that was no longer in dispute. 
She could see that the loan had been applied for, and approved, online  and there wasnt 
any reason to say it wasnt valid, and Mr M must therefore make repayments to it. She 
agreed that Nationwide made a mistake in their final response when they quoted the account 
withdrawal restrictions to be £50 per day (not £50 per week)  but this was an honest 
mistake.
Mr M asked that an ombudsman looks at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main point of Mr Ms complaint is how he was treated in the branch. He said that the 
staff treated him badly and discriminated against him because of his facial disfigurement.
Ive thought about this and reviewed what both he and Nationwide have said. Nationwide 
took testimonies from their staff who were involved at the time. They say that they dealt with 
what was needed to complete Mr Ms loan application  and later, make the transfers to 
other lenders. They deny making any comments or showed the behaviours that Mr Ms feels 
took place. They say Mr M became angry and shouted  and other customers left the branch 
and the police were called. Unfortunately, with the passage of time, the CCTV footage isnt 
available for us to see. I dont think Mr M should read anything into that  its just 
unfortunate. And obviously, I wasnt there at the time. So, in all honesty, its just not possible 
for us to make a judgement on what did or didnt, happen.
Looking at the loan, I can see that it was applied for and approved online. So, a signature 
wasnt needed. But it was set up and the money drawn properly. Mr M told us that he did 
read the terms and conditions of the loan. So - he should make the agreed payments to it.
I can appreciate that when the branch had to call Mr Ms father to get his agreement to pay 
off the other lender  this would have taken some time and must have been frustrating. But, 
because of the restriction on withdrawals of £50 per week, they had to do this  it was part of 
their job, and they do need to stick to these measures to protect all customers, including Mr 
M. 
I can see that Nationwide made a mistake in their letter to Mr M where they said withdrawals 
from his joint account were restricted to £50 per day  not £50 per week. I agree that this 
wasnt good  but it was only an honest mistake  and I dont think this caused Mr M any 
harm, other than justifiable annoyance.
I hope the explanations I, and our investigator have provided have helped Mr M understand 
what went on at the branch, and why they needed to do what they did. As I see it, they were 
doing their job. And as Ive said, its simply not possible for this service to make any 
comment on the alleged behaviour of the branch staff  and I do hope he understands that.
I can clearly see that Mr M feels upset and wronged by what happened  and so he will be 
disappointed by my decision. But having reviewed his complaint, I wont be asking 
Nationwide to do anymore here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman