DRN-2675450
The complaint
Mr G complains that following a review National Westminster Bank Plc decided to close his 
accounts by giving him 60 days notice. This included his mortgage account. Mr G would like 
to know the reason for the closure. 
What happened
Mr G had several accounts with NatWest including a credit card account and a mortgage.
In November 2020 NatWest reviewed Mr Gs accounts. Following the review, they wrote to 
Mr G giving him 60 days notice of the closures of his accounts.
When he called them Mr G was told that his mortgage account would also be affected by the 
closure.
Mr G wanted to know why the accounts were being closed so he complained to NatWest.
NatWest said that they were entitled to review accounts and their terms and conditions 
allowed them to give Mr G notice to close the accounts in 60 days.
Mr G was unhappy with NatWests response, so he complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said NatWest were entitled to review 
the account in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and the terms and conditions. He 
said that NatWest werent obliged to give prior notice of any restrictions and they didnt have 
to give a reason for a review or a closure. He said NatWest had given Mr G 60 days notice 
to make alternative banking arrangements.
Mr G was unhappy with the view. He said he still wanted an explanation about why his 
accounts were closed. He also said he had been re-mortgaging with NatWest a few months 
prior to the review. Because of the closure he was faced with having to find a new mortgage 
company and incurred extra fees. He wanted NatWest to cover these fees which were £999 
product fee and £225 mortgage account. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Gs accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. Having looked at the evidence I am satisfied that 
this is what NatWest was doing when it reviewed Mr Gs accounts. 
I have seen evidence of a letter Mr G received from NatWest dated 23 November 2020 
where they gave him 60 days notice of closing his accounts. Mr G has said this was very 
unexpected and he doesnt know why his accounts have been closed.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
NatWest wrote to Mr G on 23 November 2020 and let him know it was closing his account 
giving him 60 days notice. So, Im satisfied NatWest closed the accounts in line with the 
account terms. And gave Mr G adequate time to open another bank account. So, I cant say 
they have done anything wrong when they reviewed and closed Mr Gs accounts.
Mr G has said he wanted to know the reason for closing the accounts. NatWest isnt required 
to give him specific reasons for this. So, I cant say NatWest has done anything wrong by not 
giving Mr G this information  as much as hed like to know.
Mr G has said that he incurred re-mortgage fees of £1,224 when he re-mortgaged following 
the account closures. Mr G had re-mortgaged with NatWest three months before the account 
was reviewed and closed.  Mr G said he wanted these fees refunded to him as he doesnt 
believe he has done anything wrong and his account shouldnt have been closed.
I appreciate having to re-mortgage unexpectedly was stressful for Mr G and I know he was 
concerned about whether he was going to get it all done in the timeframe. However, 
NatWest were entitled to review and close Mr Gs accounts in line with the terms and 
conditions. And I dont think they have done anything wrong in doing so. It follows I wont be 
asking them to pay Mr G the fees he has incurred in re-mortgaging his property as a result of 
the account closure.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman