DRN-3112796
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc havent provided him with a breakdown of the 
money they requested from him in 2015 to release their legal charge on his home.
What happened
 Mr Ss wife ran a business and in 2007, as security for the debts of the business Mr S gave 
HSBC a charge over the family home of which he was the sole owner. 
Unfortunately, Mrs Ss business failed and in January 2010 she was declared bankrupt.   
In February 2010 HSBC wrote to Mrs S demanding immediate repayment of the business 
outstanding debt, which HSBC confirmed was £38,854.44. 
Later the same month, HSBC also wrote to Mr S giving notice that the amount hadnt been 
repaid and therefore, they were entitled to enforce their security if that remained the position. 
In May 2011 HSBC closed all the accounts they held for Mrs S. 
In 2015 Mr S decided to sell the family home. To that end his solicitors asked HSBC for a 
redemption figure so that they could redeem the banks charge. HSBC confirmed the amount 
needed was £54,605.87. In October 2015 Mr Ss solicitors transferred the full amount to 
HSBC who then released their charge.  
In 2020 Mr S said he received advice on a property matter which prompted him to query the 
amount HSBC demanded from him in 2015. In effect, he believed the bank received in 
excess of what it was owed, and he asked to see a breakdown of the banks figures. HSBC 
said they hadnt retained details of the redemption figure or the legal charge but that they 
acted in accordance with their legal rights in relation to the charge Mr S gave to them in 
2007. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response and so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He acknowledged that a copy 
of the legal charge was no longer available and therefore it wasnt now possible to say for 
certain what the limit on Mr Ss liability was under it. And given the time thats elapsed he 
accepted HSBCs case that it was impossible now to ascertain precisely how the redemption 
figure was arrived at. 
However, after considering various screen shots that the bank provided which confirmed  
Mrs Ss debts in 2011 when the bank closed her accounts, he noted the actual amount was 
around £1,700 in excess of the redemption figure the bank gave to Mr Ss solicitors. But on 
balance he was persuaded that HSBC probably recovered what it was owed. He believed 
the likely explanation for the difference between the two figures was adjustments the bank 
made to account for interest or charges. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators conclusion and said  in summary.
HSBC didnt provide a breakdown of the redemption figure to his solicitors. Rather 
they simply provided a final figure. 
It wasnt the role of his solicitors to interrogate HSBC to find out how the redemption 
figure was arrived at, whereas in rejecting his case the investigator appears unfairly 
to be relying on the legal principle he who asserts must prove
Its unreasonable that HSBC didnt retain records going back to 2015 as these would 
have substantiated the redemption figure they requested from his solicitors.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
HSBCs charge had been released five years before Mr S brought his complaint. And the 
bank has said it hasnt retained a copy, or a breakdown of the redemption figure. Although 
thats unfortunate, I would add that HSBC are not obliged to retain records indefinitely. And 
although Mr S believes the bank should still have retained those records, I dont think I can 
fairly conclude the bank is at fault for failing to do so. 
However, in general terms, a legal charge to secure business borrowings is usually what is 
called an all monies charge. What this means is that it would cover all debts and liabilities 
owed to the bank by the debtor (in this case, Mrs S). In addition, the liability is generally for 
debts that exist at the time the charge is taken, as well as any future secured or unsecured 
debts owed to the bank.  
Mr S hasnt explained what he thinks the correct redemption figure should have been. But he 
believes the figure is wrong and hes explained why. So, Ive thought about his arguments 
and, like the investigator, Ive considered the records that HSBC still hold, especially those 
that show the amounts Mrs S owed the bank at the time her accounts were closed in 2011.  
Mr S has told us HSBCs redemption figure increased by over £15,500 compared to the 
figure the bank had asked him to pay five years earlier in 2010. That is true. And he says 
that at no time in the intervening five years did HSBC request anything further from him nor 
did they revise that amount theyd confirmed he owed. It would appear that is also true.  
At the time Mrs Ss accounts were closed in May 2011, I can see that the bank recorded as 
the outstanding balances:
Credit card - £9,717.94
Overdraft - £19,578.01
Small business loan - £7,741.58
Flexible business loan - £19,284.51
And theres an added note to the effect that it had previously overlooked the debt that was 
owed on Mrs Ss Flexible business account which meant the overall amount the bank was 
owed needed to be revised to include the £19,284.51 it had discovered on the Flexible 
Business Loan account. 
 
So, on balance whilst I appreciate in 2010 Mr S had been asked for a figure materially less 
than the total recovered by the bank on redemption in 2015, the most likely cause seems to 
be the banks failure in 2010 to have accounted in the figures provided to Mr S for the 
amount it later identified in 2011 as existing on the Flexible business loan. HSBC provided Mr Ss solicitors with a redemption figure in 2015. Mr S may well be right 
that HSBC didnt provide a breakdown of the figure. But although Mr S doesnt believe it was 
part of his solicitors role to interrogate HSBC to establish how their redemption figure was 
arrived at, I disagree. 
In 2015 at the time of the redemption, it is likely Mr Ss solicitors would have had sight of the 
banks legal charge and would, or should, have been aware of what it covered. Faced with a 
redemption figure, even if there was no breakdown, it doesnt seem to me to be an 
unreasonable expectation that the solicitors would have sought to establish that the figure 
was correct and properly due before paying it over to HSBC. 
Mr S has explained that he was of course aware that HSBC had taken a charge over his 
property for Mrs Ss borrowing, but he thinks there may have been some unsecured liabilities 
not covered by the charge. He says, however, that at the time of the redemption in 2015, he 
wasnt in the space financially or mentally to query the amount HSBC had told his solicitors 
was owed to the bank. 
That suggest to me there may well have been a discussion between the solicitors and Mr S 
about the amount owed under the charge  as I would expect in the circumstances  which 
Mr S then approved. But even if there had not been any such discussion  and if Mr Ss 
solicitors had paid over the amount the bank had requested without discussing it with Mr S 
first  then thats not something for which HSBC is responsible.
I appreciate these events happened at a very difficult time for Mr S as hes explained and Im 
sorry for that.  But on balance I have not been persuaded that in 2015 HSBC recovered from 
him amounts in excess of what the bank was properly due under its legal charge.  
My final decision
 My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman