DRN-3958451
The complaint
Mr E complains that he hasnt any information about the sale of his property by Oakwood 
Homeloans Limited in 2010 which produced a mortgage shortfall. Mr E is also concerned 
about different outstanding balances hes been given by the solicitors for Oakwood.
What happened
Mr E had a property and a mortgage with Oakwood which was repossessed in 2010. Mr E 
wanted to bring a complaint about the shortfall to this service. Our Ombudsman issued a 
decision dated 27 September 2022 saying that, because of the Rules that apply to us we 
could not look into the value at which Oakwood sold his property after it was repossessed. 
But we could look into his complaint that he was given different outstanding balances with no 
explanation.
The net proceeds of sale of the mortgaged property, according to Oakwoods statement of 
account was £95,167.95. The shortfall recorded in the account in 2010 was £54,736.87. 
Oakwoods solicitors obtained a judgement for the shortfall and got a charging order on Mr 
Es present property. On 12 December 2017, Mr E got a letter from Oakwoods then 
solicitors claiming an outstanding liability of £55,055.67. He then got a letter from a different 
firm of solicitors representing Oakwood who told him the liability was £34,457.15. 
Our investigators view
When our investigator asked for an explanation of the difference he was told that this was 
due to a credit being applied to the account of £19,642.42 as a result of Title Rectification. 
As this was credited to the account at the time of receipt and Mr E didnt suffer financially as 
a result, our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld.
Mr E disagreed and our investigator requested further information on how the credit related 
to title rectification. Oakwood said that when the mortgage was taken out initially, the 
solicitors acting for Mr E failed to secure the charge in the Land Registry. This would have 
been a problem in the litigation to repossess the property and there were extra costs 
involved in doing so. Oakwood said that it added these charges to the account but then 
refunded them when these costs were recouped.
My provisional decision
As my view of this complaint differed from our investigators I issued a Provisional Decision 
as set out below:
As set out above Im prevented from the rules that apply to us from looking into the sale of 
Mr Es former home. But I can look into the different balances he received from Oakwood 
solicitors. It seems that for many years Oakwoods solicitors were asking Mr E to pay a 
substantially inflated figure of £55,055.67. The correct figure was apparently much lower - 
£34,457.15. I say apparently because Ive not yet seen a statement of account showing a 
calculation of this last figure claimed by the solicitors. 
Ive seen a statement of account in 2010 showing a balance of £54,738.87. Ive seen a 
statement up to 8 December 2021 with a balance of £40,456.08. Ive not yet seen a 
statement showing a balance of £34,457.15.
Oakwood says that there were difficulties in selling the property and that required a title 
rectification. This meant that in the course of the sale of the property there were extra legal 
costs involved that were added to Mr Es account and is reflected in the 2010 statement, but 
that Oakwood was able to recoup these costs. The 2021 statement shows a credit to the 
account of £19,642.42 on 30 December 2011 and this is reflected in the December 2021 
account that Ive seen.  
But it seems for a long period that Oakwood through its solicitors continued to ask Mr E to 
pay the larger rather than smaller sum. The smaller sum was not asked for until recently and 
until our intervention no explanation was given to Mr E as to why the balance was 
substantially reduced. So, it seems that for a long period following the repossession of his 
property that Oakwood asked Mr E to pay a figure it wasnt entitled to and didnt provide Mr 
E with the correct statement of his account. Oakwood should have provided information to 
Mr E about the state of his account that was clear, fair and not misleading. Oakwood didnt 
meet that standard and on that basis Im upholding this complaint.
What effect did this have on Mr E? Mr E says that he was unable to borrow £25,000 for the 
past several years because of the inaccuracy on his account and that he has been mentally 
affected by it. But Mr E would have a substantial debt in any case and a charging order on 
his property. Ive seen no evidence and am not convinced that Mr E could have got a loan if 
the debt were in the £30,000s rather than the £50,000s. So, I dont consider that Mr E 
suffered any financial loss as a result of the debt being overstated. But I will consider this 
matter if Mr E can supply me with evidence that he suffered a financial loss because of the 
balance being overstated.
But as I say above Mr E has an expectation that Oakwood would keep a proper account of 
his debt and provide information that is clear, fair, and not misleading and if failed to do that. 
It told him for years that he owed substantially more than he did, then told him he owed less 
but didnt provide him with an explanation of the difference. Mr E would have been 
distressed by this and I believe that an award of £500 reasonable reflects Mr Es distress 
and inconvenience. Mr E has yet to be provided with a statement of account showing how 
the figure of £34,457.15 is arrived at and I would require Oakwood to provide a full statement 
of how it arrives at that figure. Subject to any further evidence or submissions I receive from 
Mr E or Oakwood my intention is to uphold this complaint and require Oakwood to pay Mr E 
£500 and to provide him with a statement of account showing how the account balance of 
£34,457.15 is arrived at.
Further submissions
I invited further submissions from Mr E and from Oakwood before coming to my final 
decision. Oakwood told me that it agreed with my Decision. Mr E raised a number of matters 
which I deal with below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Oakwood agreed with my Decision, Mr E raised a number of matters:
Mr E asks me again to again look into the sale of his property in 2010.
Mr E regards it as suspicious that Oakwood used two different firms of solicitors
Mr E says that he applied for a loan but that the two charges registered by Oakwood 
on his house made it difficult to get one.
Mr E feels that Oakwood should not enforce the payment from him.
In response to Mr Es further submissions: Ive already set out why I cant look into the sale 
of Mr Es property in 2010. I dont regard it as suspicious that Oakwood changed the 
solicitors it was using in respect of the debt owed by Mr E to Oakwood. This matter stretches 
over a decade, and I dont consider it abnormal that Oakwood may have wanted to use 
another firm of solicitors during that time. 
I said in my Provisional Decision that I would consider any evidence that Mr E had that the 
misstatement of the outstanding balance caused him financial loss and his inability to raise 
money for home improvements. Mr E hasnt produced any such evidence but now says that 
it was Oakwood obtaining two charges that affected his ability to obtain a loan. Ive no doubt 
that a charging order  there is an interim and a final charging order registered on the 
property  would affect Mr Es ability to obtain a loan but I dont see that Oakwood has done 
anything wrong in obtaining those orders and I note that the actual amount does not appear 
on the register. So, again. Ive no evidence that the misstatement of the debt caused Mr E 
any financial loss. Finally, I dont agree that result of the debt being mis-stated means that it 
becomes statute barred. I note that in the final part of his recent email to us, Mr E has 
indicated that he would like to put a proposal to Oakwood about a potential settlement of the 
debt. If Mr E wants to do so I will leave it to him or his representatives to contact Oakwood 
directly. 
Ive considered these further submissions and reviewed the evidence on file, but I consider 
that, for the reasons stated therein, my Provisional Decision represents a fair outcome to this 
complaint, and I uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Putting things right
Oakwood Homeloans Limited should:
1. Pay Mr E £500,
2. Provide Mr E with a full statement of account explaining how it calculates the 
outstanding balance to be £34,457.15
My final decision
My Decision is I that I uphold this complaint and require Oakwood Homeloans Limited to:
1. Pay Mr E £500,
2. Provide Mr E with a full statement of account explaining out how it calculates the outstanding balance to be £34,457.15
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman