DRN-2264412
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint is about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) has dealt with 
their complaint and the compensation, relating to a mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy associated with a current account overdraft.
What happened
Mrs G opened her bank account in her maiden name with Barclays, in March 1992. In 
January 1999 Mrs G took out a PPI policy to cover the overdraft on the account. Mrs G later 
got married and in November 2005 Mr G was added, to make the current account, a joint 
account. The PPI was still active on the account for the overdraft when this became a joint 
account. 
In 2019 Mr and Mrs G complained to Barclays about mis-sold PPI with various financial 
products. 
Barclays wrote to Mr G in September 2019 and offered compensation for the mis-sold PPI 
on the overdraft for the current account. In October 2019 Barclays wrote to Mrs G and said 
her complaint about the PPI on the overdraft was a duplicate and it had been dealt with and 
was now closed. This was based on the offer Barclays had sent to Mr G for the account.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy that Barclays made the offer of compensation solely to Mr G. 
This was in part because of their tax situation and they felt Mrs G was entitled to some of the 
compensation in her name. So they brought their complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2020. Mr and Mrs G have 
responded to that to say they accept my findings and have nothing more to add.
Barclays has also responded and not disagreed with my findings. It has provided the 
information I requested about the calculation of the compensation and also agreed to my 
award for trouble and upset. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the bank account was opened it was solely in Mrs Gs name. It remained that way 
until 2005. When the PPI was taken out in 1999 to cover the overdraft, this policy was sold to 
Mrs G only as she was the only named account holder. 
Barclays agreed to uphold that the PPI on the overdraft was mis-sold. But it made the 
payment of the compensation to Mr G, even though he was not a party on the account when 
the PPI was sold. As the overdraft PPI was solely in Mrs Gs name when taken out, and 
Mr G was not added to the account until 2005, it was unclear why Barclays had paid the 
compensation in full to Mr G. Until Mr G was added to the account in 2005, he had no cover 
or benefit from the PPI policy on the overdraft. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision, based on the facts it seems that Mrs G was due the 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI, from January 1999 to November 2005 when the account 
was in her name only. She was the only person named on the account, the PPI only 
provided cover to her and for her benefit and was solely responsible for payment of the 
premiums during this time. 
Once Mr G was added to the account in 2005, he jointly benefited from the PPI cover. 
Therefore, from December 2005 to May 2006, when the account was closed, the PPI 
compensation was due to both Mr and Mrs G in equal shares.
Although Mr and Mrs G have not overall complained about the total paid in compensation for 
the mis-sale, they were unhappy with the way it had been paid to Mr G only. This was 
because, as tax was deducted from the compensatory interest, this affects the tax Mrs G 
and Mr G paid.
I indicated in my provisional decision that the compensatory interest calculated on the costs 
of the PPI from 1999 to 2005, was due to Mrs G. The compensatory interest calculated on 
the costs of the PPI from 2005 to 2006, was due equally between Mr and Mrs G. Neither 
Barclays nor Mr and Mrs G have disagreed that this approach is correct. 
I requested Barclays to provide two written calculations. One showing how much 
compensation was due to Mrs G for the time the PPI was on her account solely, from 1999 
to 2005  the compensatory interest due on this being calculated to the date of final payment 
purely on the amount of the PPI costs redress due to Mrs G. The second calculation was to 
show what compensation is due for the period the account was in joint names.
Barclays has actually undertaken a new calculation and provided a split of the amounts as I 
requested. This shows, based on the new calculations:
Calc 1 for Mrs G: (Period from Jan 1999 to Nov 2005)
PPI - £516.00
Interest incurred due to PPI - £243.08
Refund of Charges - £349.00
8% Simple Interest - £1,543.14
Tax -308.62
Calc 2 for both Mr G and Mrs G: (Period from Dec 2005 to May 2006)
PPI - £48.00
Interest incurred due to PPI - £2.37
Refund of Charges - £0.00
8% Simple Interest - £58.98
Tax-£11.79
Barclays has also indicated these are only indicative figures and once acceptance of my 
decision is made it will undertake an updated calculation to provide a final offer. The total 
amount now due may be slightly more than was originally offered to Mr and Mrs G, but any 
compensation already paid will also be taken into account and deducted from any now 
amount that is calculated. If there is more compensation due this should be paid to Mr and 
Mrs G.I indicated in my provisional decision that it was unclear how Barclays could calculate 
compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy to a person who was not the person who had the 
financial account and took out the PPI in the first place. And I said I thought Barclays 
approach had put Mr and Mrs G to some trouble and upset unnecessarily. I indicated I was 
intending to direct Barclays to pay an additional £100.00 for this, because of the way it has 
dealt with this complaint. In response to my provisional decision Barclays has agreed to pay 
this and apologised for the trouble and upset caused by its errors.
No new evidence has been provided by either party to suggest the approach I outlined 
relating to the split of the compensation was incorrect and to make me change my findings. 
Barclays has provided a split of the compensation on that basis but using updated 
calculations. These suggest that slightly more compensation may be due, but the actual 
calculations provided have not taken into account and removed any compensation already 
paid.  And it is fair that this is done on final calculation of the compensation.
Putting things right
Barclays should undertake a final calculation for the PPI mis-sale redress. This should be 
split on the basis Mrs G is due the compensation for the mis-sold PPI, from January 1999 to 
November 2005 when the account was in her name only. And from December 2005, when 
Mr G was added to the account, to May 2006, when the account was closed, the PPI 
compensation is due to both Mr and Mrs G in equal shares.
Barclays should then send its final offer to Mr and Mrs G, setting out in writing, the split of 
the compensation as it has indicated in the format set out above.
When the new calculation is undertaken, any compensation already paid can be deducted 
and any additional compensation then still due, if any, should be paid to Mr and Mrs G. 
If Mrs G and Mr G require tax certificates to show how much tax was deducted from their 
compensation, then Barclays should provide these. 
Barclays should also pay an additional £100 in compensation to Mr and Mrs G for the trouble 
and upset caused for its errors when dealing with this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I am directing Barclays 
Bank UK Plc to provide new, separate calculations for the compensation as outlined above. 
Any additional compensation due to Mr and Mrs G when the final calculation is undertaken 
should be paid to Mr and Mrs G.
I am also directing Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay an additional £100.00 in total to Mr and Mr 
G for the trouble and upset caused by the way this complaint has been dealt with.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman