DRN-4034689
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
dealt with his claim.
What happened
Mr H had a group income protection insurance policy through his employer, underwritten by 
L&G. This would pay a benefit if Mr H was unable to work due to illness or injury in his own 
occupation throughout the deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks and beyond. 
Mr H became absent from work in March 2021 due to knee problems and fibromyalgia. He 
made a claim which L&G accepted and paid for a period of eight weeks. It had arranged 
medical assessments which took place in February 2022. L&G said the medical evidence 
showed Mr H ought to have returned to work by November 2021 and the assessments didnt 
show Mr H continued to be incapacitated. 
Mr H appealed the decision and made a complaint. Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mr H 
referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think L&G had unfairly dealt with Mr Hs 
claim.
Mr H disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
Although his knee surgeon signed him off, his doctor didnt agree he was fit for 
essential duties in his job due to his fibromyalgia.
The medical fit notes provided confirmed he was not fit for work. These notes should 
qualify as medical evidence.
His employer terminated his employment due to his condition.
He saw one of the countrys leading rheumatologists for fibromyalgia and was 
prescribed medication with terrible side effects. He now has regular treatment for his 
fibromyalgia.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld, and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms define incapacity as follows:
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him 
from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of 
the deferred period.
The policy confirms:
payment of members benefit will continue so long as the insured member is a 
disabled member...
and
We will immediately end payment of benefitif the insured member ceases to be a 
disabled member.
L&G reviewed and assessed the following key medical evidence and said Mr H met the 
definition of incapacity initially for which it paid benefit until November 2021. After that, the 
claim would be closed as he was fit to work. 
The key medical evidence 
Mr H had surgery on his knees in May 2021 and July 2021. The surgeon said Mr H 
was expected to be able to return to work by November 2021. 
In October 2021, Mr Hs consultant rheumatologist wrote a letter to confirm that he 
had longstanding knee pain and more widespread generalised pain for which a 
diagnosis of fibromyalgia was made. Scans showed Mr Hs knees were healthy, he 
had more generalised widespread pain with a few fibromyalgic features and poor 
sleep. He wasnt on any medication, and he had no features of inflammatory arthritis. 
He had full range of movement of his joints with multiple fibromyalgic bony tender 
points. The consultant had generally reassured him and hadnt arranged a further 
follow up. 
In January 2022, a consultant orthopaedic surgeon wrote a report to confirm that in 
August 2021, Mr Hs preoperative symptoms had been abolished and he was left 
with some post operative discomfort which he would have expected to have resolved 
shortly after August 2021. He said his treatment had been very effective, no further 
treatment was planned, and he would have expected him to return to work by 
November 2021. 
In February 2022, a report from a vocational clinical specialist said Mr Hs symptoms 
were inconsistent with the nature of his condition and he concluded he was fit to 
return to work.
In February 2022, L&G arranged for a Chronic Pain Abilities Determination (CPAD) 
test. The results showed that Mr Hs functional abilities could not represent his true 
capabilities and so his actual abilities were far greater than he was willing to perform 
during the assessment.  
In April 2022, Mr Hs GP wrote a letter of support to confirm he had a diagnosis of 
fibromyalgia and reported symptoms of pain, fatigue, knee pain, headaches, stomach 
ache, IBS and general body aches. The GP said Mr H had a chronic, ongoing condition which was likely to affect his day-to-day activities to a certain extent. He 
hoped to return to work as soon as he felt fit enough to do so but an amended job 
role could mean a return to work sooner. 
In July 2022, an occupational health physician wrote a report following a telephone 
consultation with Mr H which concluded he was not medically fit to return to his role 
as prolonged kneeling was likely to be painful but he was medically fit for work in an 
adjusted or alternative role. 
Having considered all of the above, I dont think L&G unfairly dealt with Mr Hs claim. The 
medical evidence doesnt show incapacity following November 2021 until the GPs letter of 
April 2022. But Mr H has to remain incapacitated in order to continue receiving benefit. 
Mr H says his GP signed him off and the fit notes are evidence of his incapacity. But to 
satisfy the definition of incapacity, the medical evidence has to show that Mr H is unable to 
perform the essential duties of his role due to illness or injury. Being diagnosed with a 
condition or having a fit note by itself isnt sufficient to meet the definition. 
I would expect to see objective medical evidence commenting specifically on how Mr Hs 
illness or injury was affecting his ability to do his job. The medical evidence from February 
2022 shows that L&G arranged testing through a CPAD assessment which didnt suggest Mr 
H was incapacitated. And as the reports are detailed, I find the conclusions more persuasive 
than the GPs letter. The GPs letter is based on Mr Hs self-reporting and doesnt refer to 
any medical encounters or visits to show that Mr H needed further treatment.
As Mr Hs treating specialist found that he expected him to return to work in November 2021, 
I think it was reasonable for L&G to make payment to this date and then terminate payment 
of benefit. 
Once a claim is accepted, the onus is on the insurer to show the member is no longer 
incapacitated. Im satisfied L&G appropriately reviewed and arranged further medical 
evidence through the CPAD in February 2022 to show that there was insufficient evidence of 
incapacity after November 2021. 
In addition, Im less persuaded by the medical evidence from April and July 2022 as this is 
based on Mr Hs self-reporting, over the telephone, and without any objective testing as was 
done in February 2022.
Mr H says his employment was terminated due to his condition but this didnt happen until 
later in 2022. The medical evidence shows that Mr H could have returned to work by 
November 2021 and L&G was entitled to rely on this. I also note Mr H now has regular 
treatment for his fibromyalgia but I can only consider the evidence which was available to 
L&G at the time of the claim assessment. 
And so I wont be asking L&G to pay any more benefit to Mr H.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Shamaila HussainOmbudsman