DRN-3037959
The complaint
Mr B acquired a used car in late July 2020, by means of a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited. His car broke down in early October 2020. He complains that his car 
was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He wants Close to arrange and pay for 
his car to be repaired.
 
What happened
Mr B said:
He reported by phone an engine-related fault to the supplying dealership in late 
September 2020, for which he had a call record
The supplying dealership asked him to bring his car in for inspection during the 
following week  he decided to do so on the Friday of the following week
In the meantime, he took his car to a local garage  where he was told that an engine 
component had been poorly fitted, and advised that he should take his car to the 
supplying dealership 
He used his car on the Tuesday and Thursday of the following week, and 
experienced no issues or warning lights
He used his car again on the Friday of the following week, which was when it broke 
down 
At no point was he advised to stop making normal use of his car, when he reported 
the fault  if he had been given this advice, he would not have continued to drive it
He understood that his car had been properly serviced very shortly before he 
acquired it, and so he was shocked by its lack of durability after such a short period 
of time
Mr Bs car was examined in mid-October 2020 by an independent inspector from a suitably 
accredited organisation. The inspector reported:
Mr Bs car had suffered engine destruction, which had caused the break down
The conditions that led to this destruction would not have been present or developing 
at the point of supply, and were not consistent with normal wear and tear over the 
period since acquisition by Mr B
In the inspectors opinion, Mr B was responsible for the engine damage. This was because 
Mr B did not seek urgent repairs to his car as soon as he discovered the engine-related fault.
The supplying dealership said that Mr B complained to it in mid-September 2020 about the 
engine-related fault. It advised him to seek an immediate repair, which it offered to 
undertake. This version of events was different from that described by Mr B.  
The dealer accepted the inspectors findings. And so, in late December 2020, Mr B referred 
his complaint to Close. 
The dealer provided evidence to Close, in the form of a diary entry made shortly after Mr B 
complained to it. This noted the reported fault, and provisional arrangements to collect Mr 
Bs car for repair.  
Close responded to Mr B in early February 2021, saying that it could not up uphold his 
complaint. It explained that the information available indicated the dealer did intend to repair 
his car, but he continued to drive his car for three weeks after the fault was reported. 
Mr B then referred his complaint to us. He challenged the veracity of the dealers diary entry. 
He added that Close had ignored the phone record evidence of his call to the dealer, 
because this call was not recorded. 
Close supplied evidence to us, pointing out that Mr Bs car underwent a MOT test three days 
before the point of supply. The car passed this test with no advisories, and the fault 
subsequently reported by Mr B would have caused an advisory. 
Our investigator concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. She noted:
Assessment of satisfactory quality should take the age and mileage travelled by a car 
into account  
oMr Bs car was 72 months old at the point of supply, and had travelled a little 
under 72,000 miles
oduring the 10 weeks between the point of supply and the breakdown, Mr Bs 
car travelled just over 4,000 miles
The independent inspector who examined Mr Bs car thought  
othe conditions that led to the breakdown were not present or developing at the 
point of supply
oMr B was responsible for his cars engine damage
Mr B had told us that the fault he reported was caused by poor workmanship (at the 
time his car was checked and serviced, shortly before the point of supply, in his 
view)  but no evidence was available in support of this statement 
Evidence from an MOT test (undertaken shortly before the point of supply) suggested 
that the fault reported by Mr B was not present when he acquired his car
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. He said the fault he reported was identified within 
weeks of acquisition, and so the onus was on Close to demonstrate that his car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply  which, in his view, it had not done. 
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Close has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances, which for 
cars include age and mileage travelled. But there are limits to Closes responsibilities. In 
particular, faults must be present or developing at the point of supply.  
For a while after the point of supply, there is a period of positive presumption that, if a 
vehicle is faulty, any faults also existed at the point of supply  unless there is evidence that, 
on the balance of probabilities, the vehicle was fault-free then. (Typically, such evidence 
would be the report of a suitably accredited independent inspector.)Mr B reported an engine-related fault with his car, and his car broke down, during the period 
in which the positive presumption above applied. So, I agree with him that the onus is on 
Close to demonstrate that his car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
On the one hand, Mr B argues:
His car was faulty because of poor workmanship shortly before he acquired it
He contacted the supplying dealership in late September 2020
He was not advised to stop making normal use of his car, when he reported his fault 
 if he had been given this advice, he would not have continued to do so
During the week after he reported the fault, he drove his car on several occasions 
until it broke down on the Friday of that week
He was not responsible for the engine damage, which caused it to break down
Because his car was faulty at the point of supply, the cost of repairing his car falls 
within Closes responsibilities
On the other hand, Close argues:
The fault reported by Mr B was not present at the point of supply
Mr B complained to the supplying dealership in mid-September 2020
When Mr B reported the fault to the supplying dealership, it advised him to seek an 
immediate repair, which it offered to undertake  and provisional arrangements were 
made to collect his car for repair
Mr B ignored the dealers advice, and he continued to drive his car for three weeks  
which led to engine damage and breakdown
In the opinion of a suitably accredited independent inspector who examined Mr Bs 
car, its engine damage and breakdown were due to user negligence    
The MOT test undertaken by Mr Bs car, shortly before he acquired it, suggests the fault 
Mr B later reported was not present at that time. But the fault could have been developing at 
the point of supply  or it could have developed subsequently, because of poor workmanship 
when the car was checked and serviced before acquisition.
Mr B and the supplying dealership disagree about when he complained it. But, more 
importantly, they disagree about the content of this contact. It appears that the phone call 
was not recorded, although Close referred to a subsequent diary entry made by the dealer, 
the veracity of which Mr B disputes. 
I assume Mr B accurately described to the supplying dealership the problem with his car that 
he observed, and that caused him to contact it. Having made this assumption, I have 
difficulty believing that the dealer would not have given him the advice it said it did. 
Mr B says that, after his contact with the supplying dealership, he took his car to a local 
garage  where he was told an engine component had been poorly fitted, and he was 
advised to take his car to the supplying dealership. I have not seen any supporting evidence 
relating to this event, which means that I can draw no conclusions about it.
And so, while noting Mr Bs concerns about the dealers diary entry, and on balance, I find 
that the dealer did advise him to seek an immediate repair, which it offered to undertake.
If Mr B had acted on the dealers advice and obtained an immediate repair, such an event 
would have fallen within Closes responsibilities. To avoid accepting responsibility, Close 
would have had to present evidence that no faults were present or development in Mr Bs 
car at the point of supply.Mr Bs car subsequently suffered engine damage and broke down. Close presented 
evidence that the conditions which caused this damage were not present or developing at 
the point of supply. The same evidence indicated, on the balance of probabilities, user 
negligence. 
I find that I am unable to disagree with the conclusions drawn from Closes evidence, the 
origin of which is a suitably accredited independent inspectors report. This means that I 
have come to the same conclusions as our investigator, for similar reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman