DRN-3117196
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) have reported his account to one of 
the main credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr M has a BOS current account on which he became overdrawn. In 2019 and 2020, Mr M 
entered into a series of repayment plans with BOS to clear the overdraft arrears that had 
accrued on his account, and these plans were reported as such by BOS to the three main 
credit reference agencies.
In June 2020, Mr M entered into another repayment plan with BOS to clear the overdraft 
arrears that had once again accrued on his account, but Mr M then made a payment to clear 
the arrears in full two days after the payment plan started. 
BOS agreed that it wouldnt make sense for that payment plan to be reported to the credit 
reference agencies, given that it had only been in place for two days, and they made 
amendments to their reports to the credit reference agencies accordingly.
But Mr M later noticed that one of the credit reference agencies were still reporting the latest 
plan as being ongoing on his account. Mr M wasnt happy about this, especially as he was 
trying to obtain a mortgage at the time which was made more difficult by the impact of the 
incorrectly reported payment plan, so he raised a complaint.
BOS looked at Mr Ms complaint. They acknowledged that one of the credit reference 
agencies was still showing the payment plan as being in place, and they apologised to Mr M 
for this and sent an updated report to the credit reference agency in question. BOS also 
made payments totalling £675 to Mr M to compensate him for the trouble and upset this 
matter had caused.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that BOSs response to Mr Ms 
complaint  including contacting the credit reference agency to provide the correct reporting 
information, and the payment of £675 compensation  already represented a fair response 
to what had taken place.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While the summary above provides a high level overview of whats taken place here, its 
clear from the information that Mr M has provided to this service that this issue has gone on 
longer, and taken up more of Mr Ms time, than the above summary initially suggests.
I also feel that its important to confirm what the credit file reporting for Mr Ms current 
account should look like. And this is because some of the statements made by Mr M in his 
submissions to this service lead me to suspect that Mr M may feel that the payment 
arrangements that hed entered into during 2019 and 2020 shouldnt now be visible on his 
credit file, given that hes cleared the overdraft arrears. 
This position is incorrect, and regardless of the current balance and status of the account, 
the payment arrangements should be visible on Mr Ms credit file so as to provide a record of 
the fact that Mr M was in payment arrangements on the account at those times.
BOS have acknowledged that the payment arrangement that Mr M entered into in June 
2020, but which was in place for only two days, shouldnt reasonably be reported to Mr Ms 
credit file, and they have further acknowledged that they made errors in how they reported 
this payment arrangement such that it was reported incorrectly to Mr Ms credit file.
In circumstances such as this, what this service would expect would be that BOS would take 
the corrective action necessary to restore Mr Ms credit file to the position that it should be in, 
had the payment plan in question not been reported as agreed, and also that they would 
apologise to Mr M and make a fair payment of compensation to him in light of the trouble 
that hes incurred.
I think that BOS have done that here, and I say this because BOS have been able to 
demonstrate that they did send a request for the credit reference agencies to amend their 
reporting. Because of this Im satisfied that, while it took some time for BOS to achieve the 
desired result, they have ultimately taken the corrective action necessary so that the 
payment plan in question shouldnt be reported to Mr Ms credit file.
Furthermore, BOS have apologised to Mr M and made payments of £675 to him by way of 
compensation. Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer thats considered 
fair and reasonable by one person not considered as being such by someone else. But, 
while I understand that Mr M may disagree, I do feel that the £675 that BOS have already 
paid to Mr M is fair here, given the full circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr M feels that a greater amount of compensation should be warranted 
because of the trouble he had obtaining a mortgage while his credit file was being reported 
incorrectly. 
However, when considering this aspect of Mr Ms complaint, I feel that its important to 
recognise that it was only one of the three main credit reference agencies who were 
reporting the June 2020 payment plan incorrectly at that time. And its notable that BOS also 
made errors which led to the other two credit reference agencies reporting Mr Ms credit file 
incorrectly, but in these instances to Mr Ms benefit. 
I say this because BOS have mistakenly instructed the removal of all instances of payment 
arrangements markers on Mr Ms account for those two credit reference agencies, meaning 
that the previous payment arrangements that Mr M entered into in 2019 and 2020 werent 
showing on his credit file for those agencies, which  as explained previously  shouldnt be 
the case.
As such, given that Mr M was able to obtain a mortgage on the basis of his credit scores 
from the other two credit reference agencies  which didnt have the correct payment 
arrangement markers reported, which if reported correctly would in all likelihood have 
impacted Mr Ms credit score and potentially his ability to obtain favourable credit  its 
difficult not to conclude that Mr M has potentially financially benefitted from BOSs errors here. And because of this I dont think that it can be reasonably stated that Mr M has 
incurred a quantifiable financial loss here on the basis that he claims.
And, while I acknowledge that Mr M did expend considerable time and effort in trying to 
rectify the incorrect credit reference reporting with the one agency that was to his detriment, I 
feel that BOSs response to Mr Ms complaint in this regard, including the apology, the 
corrective action, and the payment of £675 compensation, already represents a fair 
resolution to what took place.
All of which means that I dont feel that BOS need to take any further action at this time, and 
as such my final decision here is that I will not be upholding this complaint. I realise that this 
wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given all that 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman