DRN-2743362
The complaint
Mr A complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle FS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr A acquired a used car through an HPA with Oodle FS in April 2019. He says there were 
issues with the car from the start. He says the oil light came on after three weeks, so he 
added more oil, but the light came on again three weeks later. He raised his concerns about 
the oil consumption and other issues with the dealer and Oodle FS. 
Mr A says the car shouldnt have been consuming so much oil and it was sent for 
investigation but only the oil level was checked, and the fault not diagnosed. In January 
2020, Mr A had the car serviced and had the piston rings checked. He says he then found 
the issue was with the cars turbo. In March 2020 an injector had broken, and Mr A says he 
informed the warranty company about this and faulty turbo. He says the car was still 
consuming a lot of oil. The car then broke down which Mr A says is due to it not having been 
serviced properly before he acquired it. He says he had to pay for a new turbo, but issues 
remained, and the car broke down in June 2020 due to broken injectors. 
Mr A says the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point for supply and he wants a full 
refund.
Oodle FS says that Mr A raised a complaint in July 2019 which it investigated and issued a 
final response letter in September 2019. It says that no faults were found aside from a noise 
coming from the heatshield. Oodle FS says it understood the dealer carried out a repair 
regarding the heatshield and noted this wasnt raised again. Oodle FS noted Mr A referred 
his complaint more than six months after the September final response letter and didnt 
consent to the issues covered being considered further.
Oodle FS issued a second final response letter in August 2020. This said that repairs had 
been carried out before the issues were investigated and so there wasnt evidence to show if 
the issues were present from the point of supply. Oodle FS also confirmed that it hadnt 
financed the warranty.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service in July 2020.
Our investigator explained that Mr A didnt refer his complaint from July 2019 within six 
months of receiving the September 2019 final response letter and so we couldnt consider 
this further. She said we could consider the issues that led to Mr As complaint raised in May 
2020. However, having done so she didnt uphold this complaint. She thought the issues 
raised were likely to be a result of wear and tear and that the unauthorised repairs made it 
difficult to prove what faults may have been present or developing at point of sale. Regarding 
the warranty, our investigator explained this wasnt provided by Oodle FS and therefore she 
couldnt consider this further as part of this complaint.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A acquired a used car through a HPA with Oodle FS. Under the regulations, specifically 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Oodle FS can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such 
as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. 
Mr A has also said he wasnt provided with the information he should have been about his 
warranty at the time he acquired the car. I understand why Mr A is upset by this but as this 
complaint is against Oodle FS and it didnt provide or finance the warranty I havent 
considered this as part of this decision. 
At the time of acquisition, Mr As car was three and a half years old and had been driven 
over 76,000 miles. Therefore, it is reasonable to accept that the car would have experienced 
some wear and tear. It is also possible that used cars can experience faults shortly after 
acquisition even if they werent present at the point of sale. In such cases we would consider 
whether the car provided was sufficiently durable.
Mr A raised a complaint in July 2019 about several issues with the car. This was investigated 
and no faults were found aside from an issue with the heatshield which was agreed to be 
repaired by the dealer. Oodle FS issued a final response letter in September 2019 and as 
this complaint wasnt referred within the h six month time limit and I have nothing to show 
there were exceptional circumstances that prevented the complaint being referred in time, I 
havent considered the issues covered in this letter any further.
Mr A continued to experience issues with his car. He raised a further complaint with Oodle 
FS in May 2020. Mr A raised issues with the turbo, oil consumption and the injectors. I have 
looked at the invoices Mr A has provided from March 2020 onwards and can see that he has 
needed to undertake several repairs, specifically replacing the turbo and injectors. However, 
for me to say that Oodle FS is liable for the issues experienced, I would need to be satisfied 
that the issues were present from the point of supply or that the car wasnt sufficiently 
durable. 
The invoice from March 2020 which records a replacement of a fuel injector, ignition coil and 
all spark plugs records the mileage as 103,292 miles. Therefore, Mr A had been able to drive 
the car over 26,000 miles by the time this issue arose. The turbo replacement happened in 
May 2020 by which time Mr A had been able to drive the car over 28,000 miles. 
Given when the issues arose and the mileage that Mr A has been able to drive, I do not find I 
can say, without further evidence that the issues Mr A complained about in May 2020 were 
due to faults that were present or developing at the point of supply. As repairs have been 
undertaken I can understand why an independent inspection report wouldnt be able to 
safely conclude whether the issues Mr As car regarding the injectors and turbo were due to 
faults present at supply.
I have also considered the durability of the car. Noting the age and mileage at acquisition 
and the mileage when the issues were identified, I do not find I have enough to say that the 
car wasnt sufficiently durable.Overall, while I understand why Mr A is upset at the issues he has experienced with his car, I 
do not find I have enough evidence to say that these were due to faults present at the point 
of supply and as such I do not find I have enough to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
acquisition.
Therefore, while I know this will be a disappointment to Mr A, I do not find I can uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Oodle Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman