DRN-3013374
The complaint
Mr S complains about Vitality Health Limiteds settlement of his claim under his private 
medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr S has a private medical insurance policy through his employer which began in May 2020. 
The insurer is Vitality.
On 15 September 2020 Mr S called Vitality to make a claim on the policy as he had a 
problem with his foot. Mr S said his physiotherapist had referred him to a specialist at the 
foot and ankle clinic in London and the appointment was that day. Vitality said before it could 
authorise any treatment it would need to see Mr S previous insurance certificate to enable it 
to underwrite his policy fully. It told Mr S it could authorise the claim retrospectively but there 
was the risk it wouldnt be paid. Mr S attended the appointment that day.
On 17 September 2020 Mr S called Vitality as hed sent his previous policy certificate and 
wanted to get his treatment authorised. He told Vitality he had an MRI booked for 
21 September 2020. 
On 21 September 2020 Vitality sent Mr S an email authorising two consultant appointments 
with the name specialist at a named hospital.
Mr S had the MRI on 21 September 2020 and had another procedure carried out on 
29 September 2020. Both procedures were done at a different hospital to the one Vitality 
had authorised.
When Vitality received the invoices for the MRI and 29 September treatment it paid 60% of 
the costs. It said Mr S had chosen to be on the Countrywide hospital list which meant any 
hospital treatment had to be at a hospital on that list. If treatment was at another hospital  
Mr S would need to pay a contribution of 40% of the cost. Vitality said the policy gave clear 
information about the contribution and the information was in its authorisation letter sent on 
21 September 2020. 
Vitality acknowledged it had the opportunity to remind Mr S of the hospital list rules when he 
called but said Mr S had already chosen which hospital he wanted to use. Vitality offered 
£75 compensation to acknowledge it hadnt given the information to Mr S when he called. 
Mr S didnt accept the offer.
Mr S complained to us saying when he called Vitality should have told him that he could only 
use certain hospitals or he would have to pay. 
During our investigation Vitality told us the 40% contribution didnt apply to the appointment 
on 15 September as initial consultant appointments arent restricted by the hospital list in the 
same way as treatment.
Our investigator recommended that it would be fair for Vitality to cover the full cost of the 
MRI Mr S had on 21 September 2020. But he said Vitalitys contribution of 60% for the 
treatment on 29 September 2020 was fair. He didnt think Vitality needed to pay Mr S £75 
compensation as the full payment for the MRI was more appropriate.  
Vitality disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance explain that Vitality should handle claims promptly 
and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably decline a claim.
Relevant documents 
The policy says:
Which hospitals are eligible under your plan?
If you have one of our hospital list options you should only go to a hospital on your 
chosen list, as youre only covered in full for treatment at those hospitals. If you go to 
a hospital not on your list, then youll have to pay 40% of the costs of your treatment 
(excluding consultants fees).
Mr S policy schedule says: 
If you choose to attend a hospital not on your chosen list, you will need to pay 40% 
of the cost for treatment, diagnostic tests and scans (excluding consultants' fees).
Vitalitys authorisation letter dated 21 September 2020 says:
You have benefit available for the hospital fees agreed in this letter. Should you 
attend a hospital that's not on your list, a co-payment will apply. It is important that 
you check that the hospital your consultant suggests you attend is eligible on your 
plan. Details of your hospital list options can be found on 
Was Vitalitys 60% settlement of the claim fair and reasonable?
I think its clear in the above documents that if Mr S was treated at a hospital not included in 
the hospital list for his plan he would be liable for 40% of the cost of the treatment. But I think 
the fair and reasonable outcome is as recommended by our investigator because:
Mr S told Vitality on 15 September hed been referred to the foot and ankle clinic in 
London. Later in the call Vitality asked which specialist he was seeing and Vitality 
confirmed the named specialist Mr S gave was on its approved list. Vitalitys system 
notes say Mr S was seeing the specialist at a named hospital, which was on the 
approved hospital list. But neither Mr S or Vitality mentioned that hospitals name 
during the call. Vitality told us the foot and ankle clinic in London is based in the 
named hospital on its system so it reasonably assumed that was the hospital Mr S 
was using. But that wasnt the hospital Mr S was using. He went to the foot and ankle 
centre (not clinic) at another London hospital which wasnt on the approved list. From 
my research I can see that the hospital Mr S went to has a London Foot Clinic and a 
London Foot and Ankle Centre and also that the Foot and Ankle Centre is an 
alternative name for the Foot and Ankle Clinic at the hospital named on Vitalitys 
system.I think Vitality should have reasonably checked with Mr S which hospital he was 
attending, particularly as my research shows it would be very easy for Mr S to 
unknowingly give wrong information about the hospital he was attending just by using 
the  word clinic instead of centre. Vitality is the expert here and should have 
reasonably known it was important to check which London hospital Mr S was going 
to especially as he was on an approved hospital list plan. If Vitality had asked Mr S 
he would have given the name of a hospital not on the approved list and Vitality 
should have then reasonably told Mr S he would have to pay 40% of the cost for any 
treatment.
Mr S said if hed known hed have to make a contribution to his cost he would have 
made sure he went to an approved hospital, which I accept. Our investigators 
research shows Mr S could have seen the same specialist at the hospital Vitality had 
on its system. I think Mr S would have made sure he was seen by the specialist at a 
hospital where he didnt have to pay 40% of the cost. So I think Vitalitys failure to ask 
Mr S which hospital he was attending disadvantaged Mr S to some extent.
I dont think Mr S was disadvantaged for his 15 September 2020 appointment as 
Vitality was going to cover all the costs, once it could confirm cover, as the approved 
list didnt apply for initial treatment. 
I do think Mr S was disadvantaged for his MRI treatment. He told Vitality on 
17 September he was having a MRI and wanted authorisation. It was another 
opportunity for Vitality to check whether the hospital Mr S was attending was an 
approved hospital. And as treatment was involved Vitality knew whether the hospital 
was approved or not had important implications for Mr S cover. Although the policy 
gives information about the approved hospital list I think it would have been 
reasonable for Vitality to have reminded Mr S, particularly as he was new to the 
policy and this appears to be his first claim under the policy. And Ive already detailed 
about how easy it was for Mr S to unknowingly give Vitality wrong information about 
the hospital he was attending, which Vitality should have been aware of. Vitalitys 
failure to do so meant Mr S had to pay 40% of the costs, which he wouldnt have 
chosen to do.
I acknowledge that on 21 September 2020 Vitality sent Mr S an authorisation letter 
by email approving two consultant appointments. And that email says Mr S should 
check the hospital his consultant suggests he attend is approved for his plan. 
However, the email was sent on the day he was having the MRI and Mr S could have 
easily not seen the email before he had the MRI. The above means I think its fair 
and reasonable for Vitality to pay the full cost of Mr S MRI less any policy excess.
I dont think its reasonable to say Vitality must pay the whole cost of Mr S treatment 
on 29 September 2020 for two reasons. First, I think there was plenty of time for Mr S 
to read Vitalitys email of 21 September 2020 between then and the 29 September. 
Given the content of that email it would have been reasonable for Mr S to check the 
hospital he was going to was on the approved list, he would have seen it wasnt and 
had time to rearrange his appointment to an approved hospital. Im not persuaded by 
Mr S point that as the email was sent to his wife she wouldnt have read it. Vitality 
say shed already emailed it on that email address about cover and Mr S gave us that 
email address as the best way to contact him. As Mr S was waiting to hear from 
Vitality about authorisation of his claim I think its more likely than not he would have 
known about the authorisation email on or around the 21 September 2020. Second, 
the authorisation letter was clear it was for two consultant appointments, there was 
no confirmation of cover for any further appointment. So Mr S should have 
reasonably contacted Vitality to tell it about the further treatment and ask for authorisation, which he didnt do. Vitalitys settlement of 60% of the claim for the 
29 September 2020 treatment was reasonable.
Vitality doesnt need to pay Mr S £75 compensation for his upset and inconvenience 
due to it not checking the hospital as I think Vitality paying the full cost of the MRI 
scan is the correct redress to acknowledge that error.  
Putting things right
Vitality must pay Mr S full claim for the MRI he had on 21 September 2020, less any excess 
payable under the policy. If Mr S has already paid the 40% contribution of the cost then 
Vitality should add interest as detailed below.
My final decision
I partly uphold the complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr S full claim for the 
MRI he had on 21 September 2020, less any excess payable under the policy. If Mr S has 
already paid the 40% contribution of the cost then interest* should be added at 8% simple a 
year from the date of Mr S payment to the date of settlement.
*If Vitality Health Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman