DRN-2395568
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with how Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very handled 
her catalogue shopping account.
What happened
In 2015, Ms S took out a catalogue shopping account with very. In mid-2017, Ms S was 
struggling financially and received some administration charges for missed payments. She 
contacted very in August 2017 and it agreed for her to start a two-month payment plan, 
where she paid £15 a month instead of the minimum payment due.
Ms S made the £15 payment in August and says she also made the September 2017 
payment. However very only has a record of the August payment being received. Ms S paid 
a further £15 in October 2017 and another £15 in January 2018. In February 2018 very 
issued Ms S with a Default Notice and as her account wasnt brought up-to-date at this time, 
it defaulted the account and sold the debt to another company.
Ms S complained that she did make the September 2017 payment. She also said she made 
other payments to the account in 2018 and 2019 which hadnt been credited to towards the 
debt. She said the debt was sold on illegally and that her personal information was shared 
with the debt purchaser without her consent. She wanted the missing payments traced and 
her credit file updated, as well as the debt purchaser to stop harassing her for the money.
very didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. It said it hadnt received any proof that shed made the 
September 2017 payment, such as a bank statement. It explained that as she hadnt 
contacted it to make any further arrangements when the payment plan ended, she needed to 
make minimum payments again  not only pay £15. So as she hadnt made the September 
payment and had only made two £15 payments between October and February 2018, she 
had missed six months of payments by February 2018, so this is why the account was 
defaulted. And it referred to its privacy notice which set out how it used Ms Ss data. It did 
however locate four payments Ms S had made to it after the account was sold, so it said it 
had passed these on to the debt purchaser to reduce Ms Ss balance.
Ms S didnt agree with the outcome, so brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she hadnt seen any evidence from Ms S 
that she had made the September payment. And she said that very had dealt with the debt 
correctly, considering the missed payments on the account. Ms S asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both very and our service have asked Ms S for a bank statement to show she made the 
September 2017 payment, but she hasnt provided this. Ive seen the proof of payments 
Ms S has provided, but none of these £15 payments are dated September 2017. very has 
been able to show its records for Ms Ss account and these dont show a payment being 
received in September 2017. So without any supporting evidence from Ms S, I cant find that 
she did make this payment.
Ive seen a copy of the response letter very provided to Ms S in August 2017, when the 
payment arrangement was set up. And this letter confirms the arrangement would be ending 
in September 2017. There arent any records of a further payment arrangement being made 
and Ms S also hasnt said this happened. So I accept that from October 2017, Ms S was 
required to be making at least the minimum required payment to her account again, which 
was more than £15 each month. And from her statements and the payment evidence shes 
provided, I cant see she did this.
Ms S wants her credit file updated to show the missing payments she made. But while I 
accept she did pay some money towards the account from October 2017, she didnt pay 
enough to meet her contractual requirements. So this means she did miss the agreed 
payments and her credit file should reflect this. I cant comment on Ms Ss relationship with 
the company that bought the debt. So its for her to contact it and discuss how it has 
reported the debt from March 2018 and whether the payments she made to very after this 
date change things. But I would say that unless she did agree a payment plan with it for £15 
or less, which the letters shes sent us dont suggest, then its also unlikely to change how 
its reported her payments on her credit file.
Ive also considered the default that is registered on Ms Ss credit file. But very has shown 
that it issued Ms S with the required default notice. And neither the payment records very 
has nor Ms Ss own records show she repaid the debt or engaged with very following this 
notice. So Im satisfied this has also been correctly applied to her credit file.
Ms S says the debt was illegally sold on by very. However, the terms and conditions she 
agreed to when she applied for this account set out that very can transfer its rights and 
obligations under the agreement to another party. So it is able to sell the debt on. And, as 
our investigator has explained to Ms S, the privacy policy she agreed to also sets out that 
her personal information can be transferred to a debt purchaser. So Im satisfied that very 
hasnt illegally  or unfairly  sold on this debt or incorrectly passed on Ms Ss details.
I appreciate Ms S has also raised concerns with the way the debt purchaser has been 
contacting her about the amount owed. But as very has sold the debt and has passed on the 
funds it has located to this third party, I dont consider it needs to do anything more. Ms S will 
need to engage and cooperate with the debt purchaser now, as it owns this debt and very 
isnt responsible for the actions of this other party.
While I appreciate there were payments made to very that werent passed to the debt 
purchaser initially, these have now been located and credited to the account. And very has 
also refunded the interest that was overcharged due to the payments not being credited to 
the account at the time they were made. I havent seen any evidence that other payments 
were made, and I think very has correctly handled Ms Ss data and her debt.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Amy OsborneOmbudsman