DRN-3080052
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Etnalusa Ltd (trading as Cash Converters) has continually lent to her 
over the years. 
What happened
Between 2015 and 2019 Mrs A took out a series of loans with Cash Converters. These loans 
were all secured on items she pledged  her late mothers jewellery.
Due to the length of time that has passed not all of the loan agreements Mrs A has taken out 
are available. But from what I can see from Cash Converters records, Mrs A has taken out 
multiple loans secured against the same 16 or so items  repeatedly extending the 
borrowing, or repaying it and taking out new borrowing.
Mrs A made a complaint to Cash Converters. She said it had been irresponsible in allowing 
her to extend agreements and repeatedly pledge the same items and it should have offered 
her more support. Shes also said shes paid more in interest than the amounts originally 
borrowed and she feels this is unfair.
Cash Converters responded to Mrs As complaint. It wrote off the outstanding interest at that 
point  around £800. It acknowledged her financial difficulties and said it would no longer 
continue to lend to her after the end of the current agreements in place. It confirmed she 
would need to repay the outstanding debt of around £1,300 in order to have the pawned 
items returned to her.
Mrs A was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint as they felt Cash Converters had acted in line with the 
agreements Mrs A had entered into. They did put forward several repayment offers from Mrs 
A to Cash Converters regarding the outstanding balance, but these offers were not accepted 
and as I understand it the last loan agreement has now come to an end.
As Mrs A didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the items Mrs A has pawned with Cash Converters have sentimental value so I 
can see this situation has been difficult for her. But my role here is to look at whether or not 
Cash Converters has acted unreasonably in line with the terms of the agreements entered 
into.
Mrs A main complaint is that she was clearly in financial difficulties and Cash Converters 
shouldnt have allowed her to keep extending her loan agreements. But, when were 
considering loans secured on specifically pledged items, the assessment of Mrs As credit 
worthiness is linked to the value of the items being pawned  not Mrs As overall financial 
situation or ability to make repayments. 
From what I can see, she wasnt lent more than the items she pledged were deemed to be 
worth, and she hasnt said this was the case. If she had been unable to make the 
repayments, the items shed pawned wouldve been sold and shed no longer be liable for 
the debt. So, there wasnt a risk to her overall financial position.
Mrs A has said she feels she has repaid her debts many times over and shes paid more in 
interest than the amounts she initially borrowed. And I can see that on numerous occasions 
over the years Mrs A has been given the option to renew her loan agreements on occasions 
where she hasnt repaid the loan amounts. So it seems there have been occasions shes 
opted to renew the borrowing instead of repay it. 
Although that may have resulted in her paying additional interest on the amounts borrowed, I 
have to balance this against Mrs As choice not to have the items sold off in order to repay 
the balance. It seems when she was unable to repay the balance owed, she opted to extend 
it and pay further interest rather than give up the items in line with the terms of the 
agreements she entered into.
Overall, from what Ive seen, Cash Converters has clearly set out the terms of the borrowing 
in the agreements Mrs A has accepted. When agreements have come to an end, it appears 
to have written to her with appropriate notice to let her know this and has given her options 
regarding repayment or renewal.
Mrs A has said she was in financial difficulties during the period she was taking out loans 
with Cash Converters and that she was struggling with her mental health. I havent seen 
anything to suggest she has informed it of this at any point before she made a complaint to it 
and I dont think it reasonably ought to have concluded this based on the fact shed extended 
her borrowing. As Ive said, this was a decision Mrs A was making instead of giving up the 
items shed pledged.
After Mrs A complained, Cash Converters removed all outstanding interest and advised it 
would take no further items from Mrs A until the remaining capital balance was repaid. After 
that point, should she wish to pawn any further items, it would be agreed how many. When 
this final agreement came to an end and Mrs A was unable to repay it, Cash Converters 
extended the repayment date by several months in order to give Mrs A more time. 
I can also see it did consider the repayment plans shed put forward although ultimately felt 
unable to accept them due to the length of time it wouldve taken her to repay the balance 
owed. Overall, I think the offer it made in the circumstances was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman