DRN-3571749
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post-Office Financial Services (BOI) 
unfairly defaulted his loan account, negatively impacting his credit file.
What happened
Mr B had a loan with BOI, which he took in November 2016. His monthly payments on the 
account were £245.77.
Unfortunately, around September 2017 Mr B became unemployed and was unable to 
maintain his monthly payments. BOI agreed to temporarily place his payments on hold. He 
missed four monthly payments in total, falling behind by £983.08. He resumed his 
contractual monthly payments in February 2018.
Mr B says he received arrears letters from BOI but when he discussed the letters with them, 
he was told they were automated, and he could ignore them.
Mr B spoke with BOI about the letters again in March 2018 and they explained the letters are 
generated automatically and are there to remind him that there are arrears on the account, 
and he needs to bring the account up to date. Mr B told BOI at this time he intended to start 
making overpayments in May 2018. Mr B had a similar conversation again with BOI in June 
2018. In this call BOI also explained to Mr B the importance of bringing the account up to 
date. 
In October 2018 Mr B agreed to make additional payments towards the arrears, and BOI 
says he can disregard the letters about arrears. Mr B makes one additional payment of £50 
but doesnt make any further payments towards the arrears.
BOI send Mr B a notice of default on 14 November 2018, setting out that he needed to bring 
his account back up to date in order to prevent it from defaulting. As Mr B didnt do this the 
account was defaulted on 10 December 2018.
In March 2019 BOI sold the debt to another company, that for the purpose of this decision Ill 
call C.  Mr B says it was only when C informed him, they had purchased the account, that he 
noticed the default. He says they had overstated the balance of the account, and this was 
later corrected  and this was what he believed had led to the default.
Mr B says he didnt realise the impact of default until now, as he is applying for a mortgage. 
He doesnt feel he received the right level of communication from BOI, and says had he 
known there was a risk of this occurring he could have used personal savings or borrowed 
money from family to clear the arrears on his account. He says the debt has been cleared 
completely with C now.
Mr B complained to BOI about this, asking for them to remove the default from his records. 
They looked into things but felt they had defaulted the account correctly, so didnt agree to 
remove the default. But they did find they hadnt reported the sale of the account to C 
properly on Mr Bs credit file and so the account would have been showing as two loans 
instead of one. They corrected his credit report to reflect this and offered Mr B £150 for the 
mistake.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with this response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint. In summary he said:
The £150 BOI had paid for the error in their reporting was fair
Even though he had been told he could ignore system generated arrears letters he 
thought the notice of default letter was sufficiently different that Mr B should have 
queried it. 
He thought it was likely that the account would have always defaulted as Mr B had 
been given the opportunity to bring his account up to date and said he had intended 
to but didnt act on it. So, it was fair for BOI to record the default, in line with the 
terms of the credit agreement. They had issued the correct letters to Mr B to be able 
to do so.
However, he thought BOI should have defaulted the account three months after the 
account fell into arrears (nine months before they did) in line with the guidance from 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). As applying the default later meant that it 
prolonged the affect of it on his credit file.
Mr B didnt agree, he wants the default removed completely from his file as a resolution to 
his complaint.
BOI responded saying they didnt think it was fair for the investigator to consider when the 
default was applied as this wasnt the original complaint. The investigator explained to BOI 
that we have an inquisitorial remit and as we had looked at the presence of the default and if 
it had been applied fairly, we could also consider when it was applied as part of our 
investigation. BOI didnt respond.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. Having done so I have reached the same 
outcome as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons, Ill explain.
Before I do I think it's important that I explain to BOI that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
has an inquisitorial remit and were able to look beyond the strict complaint brought to us and 
consider the wider issue. I think that's important here because while Mr B's complaint is he 
thinks the default shouldn't have been applied at all, for me to say it's been applied fairly I 
have to be able to consider all aspects of how it's been applied, including when it was 
applied.
BOI allowed Mr B breathing space when he lost his job, as I would expect them to. But once 
Mr B was able to resume payments, he had a responsibility to make up the payments he had 
missed and bring his account up to date. Im satisfied that BOI was sufficiently clear with him about the importance of bringing his account back up to date in the various calls he had with 
them. 
That being said I understand Mr Bs frustrations about being told to ignore any letters about 
the arrears when he spoke to BOI in October 2018. It wasnt ideal of them to say this but in 
defence of the agent, they did say this to Mr B at a time when he was making an additional 
payment towards the arrears and agreeing to bring the account up to date. So, I think its 
reasonable for BOI to have assumed at that time that Mr B was going to continue to make 
the extra payments he was agreeing to, in which case the account would have been brought 
up to date and no default would have occurred. But Mr B didnt continue to make the extra 
payments hed agreed to, triggering the default process. 
The notice of default letter, BOI sent to Mr B, clearly states what he needed to do and when 
he needed to do it by to stop the default from occurring. Mr B hasnt said he didnt receive 
the letter. And Im satisfied, the letter is sufficiently different, from the other letters he had 
received in the past, to make him aware he needed to do something.
Mr B says he didnt realise the impact that the default would have on him later down the line 
or he could have easily cleared the arrears using savings or borrowing money from family. 
Mr B entered into a credit agreement and was obliged to pay the money back in line with that 
agreement, BOI was good enough to allow him breathing space when he had financial 
difficulties. And so, I dont think not realising the impact of the default, later down the line, is 
a good enough reason not to have brought the account up to date, if he could have easily 
done so, as he says. 
Mr B had lots of opportunity to bring the account up to date by making extra payments but 
didnt. So, I think its unlikely that he was able to do so easily and that the account was more 
likely to have always been heading for default. 
The ICO issues industry guidance setting out how lenders should treat customers 
experiencing financial difficulties. It gives broad guidelines concerning when it's reasonable 
to record a payment arrangement or terminate an account on someone's credit file. The 
guidance says a business can consider closing an account and recording a default when it 
falls between three and six months behind. It also says businesses can agree a payment 
arrangement with the borrower to stop an account terminating and a default be recorded.
BOI explained their standard processes to wait 12 months before they record the default on 
an account. But in the circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think BOI should have considered he 
was unlikely to bring his account back up to date and defaulted the account earlier, when he 
had gone three months into arrears, so in December 2017. I say this because after missing 
three payments he asked BOI to extend his breathing space, they said they couldn't do this, 
but he went on to miss a further payment, even though there was no agreement he could do 
so. I think it was clear at this point Mr B would struggle to get his account back up to date.
By delaying defaulting the account, BOI have caused Mr B's credit file to be impacted for 
longer than is necessary. The default is currently recorded from December 2018, meaning it 
will be reported on his credit file for six years from this date, so December 2024. I believe 
BOI should have recorded the default from December 2017, therefore it should stop being 
reported in December 2023.
I understand Mr B's strength of feeling about this and recognise that he would like the default 
to be removed completely, but I can't fairly say BOI was incorrect in defaulting the account, 
and so I can't ask them to remove it.Moving to the error BOI made in continuing to report the account to the Mr B's credit file after 
it sold the account on to C. Im satisfied they corrected this soon as they were aware. Mr B 
himself hadn't been aware of this, so I can't say the error was causing him unnecessary 
distress. Because of this I think the £150 BOI offered as compensation for this is fair and 
reasonable and in line with what I'd expect.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with BOI  can do for him.
Putting things right
If they havent already done so, BOI should pay Mr B the £150 they offered for their 
error in continuing to report the account on Mr Bs credit file after they had sold it to 
C. 
BOI should update Mr Bs credit file to reflect his account defaulting three months 
after the arrears began on his account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
trading as Post-Office Financial Services. And I now require BOI to put things right as 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman