DRN-3974217
The complaint
Mr B complains that an unregulated business called Commercial Land and Property Brokers 
(CL&P) introduced him to Options UK Personal Pensions LLP, (Options, which was trading 
as Carey Pensions UK LLP at the time of the relevant events) and gave him advice and 
made arrangements when doing so, despite not having the regulatory authorisation needed 
to do this.
Mr B says he was contacted by CL&P and, following its advice to transfer away from his 
existing personal pension to a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest in Store 
First, switched his pension arrangements to a SIPP with Options, and made a Store First 
investment. Mr B also says he invested in another unregulated investment, GAS Verdant, as 
a result of the introduction made by CL&P to Options.
A Claims Management Company (CMC) has brought Mr Bs complaint on his behalf. The 
CMC says Mr B was an inexperienced investor, and that Options failed to carry out the 
appropriate checks on CL&P. The CMC say that had Options carried out appropriate due 
diligence on CL&P, it wouldve been clear that no business introduced by CL&P shouldve 
been accepted so Options is responsible for Mr Bs losses. All references to Mr B will include 
submissions and/ or evidence provided by the CMC.
What happened
Options
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. At the time of the events in this complaint, 
Options was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Options was authorised in relation to SIPPs, to arrange 
(bring about) deals in investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish, operate 
or wind-up a pension scheme, and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments.
CL&P
CL&P was an unregulated business based in Spain. At the time of the events here, one of 
the directors of CL&P was a Terence (Terry) Wright. 
On 15 October 2010, the following was published on the FSA, website, in a section called 
Firms and individuals to avoid, which was described as a warning list of some 
unauthorised firms and individuals that we believe you should not deal with:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has today published this statement in order to warn 
investors against dealing with unauthorised firms.
The purpose of this statement is to advise members of the public that an individual 
Terence (Terry) Wright
is not authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on a 
regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things, advising on 
investments.
The FSA believes that the individual may be targeting UK customers via the firm Cash In 
Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service and the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised company 
or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of authorised 
firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
CL&P and Options
Options has told us that it was first approached by CL&P in 2011 and that it entered into 
discussions about accepting introductions from it. Options began to accept introductions 
from CL&P on 15 August 2011 and ended its relationship with it on 25 May 2012.
Options say it carried out some due diligence on CL&P. It says it reviewed CL&P's profile, 
conducted searches, reviewed CL&Ps website and literature, and had conversations with 
CL&Ps representatives over the phone.
I have set out below a summary of what I consider to be the key events and/or actions 
during the relationship between Options and CL&P, which Ive taken from the available 
evidence. This includes evidence from Mr Bs case file and generic submissions Options has 
made to us on other case files about its due diligence on, and its relationship with, CL&P.
Ive not seen any evidence to show Options carried out any due diligence on CL&P before it 
began accepting introductions from it. Rather, as I set out below, it began to accept 
introductions then carried out its due diligence whilst accepting business from CL&P. Some 
of what I set out below includes events which post-date Options acceptance of Mr Bs SIPP 
application and post-date Options sending his money for the investments. 
As I set out in my findings, some of what Options found out about CL&P during the course of 
its relationship with CL&P, and the actions it took, is relevant in this complaint even where it 
does post-date Mr Bs application and investments.
Summary
15 August 2011 - Options begins to accept introductions from CL&P.
20 September 2011 - Options conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which 
allows subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on a Zoe 
Adams and a Mark Lloyd. Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd were two of the people at CL&P that 
Options initially had contact with. This check did not reveal any issues.
27 September 2011 - Options asked CL&P to complete a non-regulated introducer profile. 
The form itself explains its purpose as follows: As an FSA regulated pensions company we 
are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on unregulated introducer firms 
looking to introduce clients to us to gain some insight into the business they carry out.Furthermore, when making this request, by email, Options Chief Executive, Christine Hallett, 
explained: ...we require for our compliance process to perform due diligence on companys 
who we enter into a business and professional relationship with. 
29 September 2011 - The non-regulated introducer profile was completed by CL&P. It was 
completed and signed by Terence Wright, and confirmed the following:
CL&P was a Spanish firm and was trading from a Spanish address.
It used an 0845 phone number.
It had been trading for two years and had two directors  Terence Wright and Lesley 
Wright.
It had eight agents, and promoted four investments  Store First, and three other 
unregulated investments.
It worked with four other SIPP operators.
Its source of business was referrals and web enquiries.
Its sales process involved a call and follow up emails.
It took 2-5% commission, and this was the source of its earnings.
Its staff had been given training and it had worked with various compliance officers.
The document makes no mention of Ms Adams or Mr Lloyd. After completing the document 
Mr Wright was asked to make the following declaration:
I declare the above is a true and accurate reflection of [name of individual or 
Firm] and that Options Pensions UK LLP can rely on this information. 
I/we fully indemnify Options Pensions UK LLP against any costs incurred as a 
result of any inaccuracies within this form.
I/we also acknowledge and accept that Options Pensions UK will undertake any 
enquiries about the firm and its Directors/Partners it feels appropriate.
9 December 2011 - Options had a conference call with representatives of CL&P. During 
that call the issue was raised of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P to 
transfer or switch to a SIPP and make investments. The note of the call included the 
following:
[Options staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member had 
asked when they would receive their money from their Store First 
Investment, [CL&P representatives] confirmed that no clients or connected 
parties referred by CL&P receive any form of inducement for either 
establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that CL&P 
policy does not include offering inducements.
[Options staff member] emphasised that it is completely against all rules 
that clients or connected parties receive any form of inducement for making 
particular investments.
13 March 2012 - Options Head of Service and Operation said in an email to CL&P:
On another matter, we need our Terms of Business for Non Regulated 
introducers in place between our two companies. So that our records are all 
straight from a Compliance aspect I attach the Terms of Business and have 
entered a commencement date of 15 August 2011 which is the date of your first case with us and would be grateful if you could agree and complete the 
terms and return.
The agreement was signed by CL&P on 20 March 2012. It was signed by Ms Adams.
23 March 2012 - Options compliance support said in an email to CL&P:
To comply with our in house compliance procedures could you please 
supply the following information relating to CLP Brokers:
A copy of the latest set of accounts
A certified copy passport for each of the main directors/principals/partners 
of the company
29 March 2012 - a Team Leader at Options sent Ms Hallett an email with the subject  
03-29-2012 - Storefirst Investment Query re Cash Back [reference removed]. That email 
forwarded an email sent by the Team Leader to a consumer, which included the following:
you mentioned in our conversation a cash back amount you are 
expecting in the sum of £1,800 from CL&P following completion of the 
Storefirst investment
And the text addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader said: this is the second 
member this week to ask when are they getting their money.
3 April 2012 - Options compliance support followed up on its 23 March 2012 email:
It is now becoming urgent that we receive the outstanding documentation. 
You very kindly passed this on to your colleague and I would be very grateful 
if we could receive the documentation as a matter of urgency Thank you in 
anticipation of your assistance.
When asked, Options said it had no record of receiving the information from CL&P. 
15 May 2012 - Options conducted a World Check on Terence Wright. The report included 
the following:
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS REPORTED IN ONE OR MORE 
OF THE SOURCES BELOW
[FINANCIAL SERVICES WARNING]
Appears on the UK Financial Services Authority.
[REPORTS]
Appears on the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals,
INFORMATION SOURCES;
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/unauthorised.shtmI - 
ARCHIVE
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/lndex.shtml - 
ARCHIVE
Entered: 2011/10/24
25 May 2012 - Options terminated its agreement with CL&P. Options Head of Service and 
Operation told CL&P of Options decision in an email of that date:Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered 
inducements (monetary or otherwise) for making investments through their 
SIPPs with us, we have received enquiries as to when client can expect to 
receive their money and have today been informed by a new client that they 
are expecting circa £2,000 on completion of the Storefirst investment 
purchase, which they confirmed was offered by a member of your staff.
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case. 
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating 
our Introducer Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer 
accept business from you.
Store First - General
The Store First investment took the form of one or more self-storage units, which were part 
of a larger storage facility in a UK location. Investors bought one or more units in the facility 
and were offered a guaranteed level of income for a set period of time. After that, they could 
either take whatever income the unit(s) provided or sell them (assuming there was a market 
for them).
The Store First investment was marketed as offering a guaranteed 8% return in the first two 
years, an indicated return of 10% in the following two years, and 12% in the next two years. 
It was also marketed as offering a guaranteed buy back after five years. But little of this 
materialised. It seems most investors received one or two years income of 8%, but nothing 
beyond that. And investors have found it very difficult to sell, with those that have sold 
receiving a small fraction of the amount they paid for their pods.
In the judgment in Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Options Pensions UK LLP) 
[2020] EWHC 1299 (Ch) (Adams v Options), the judge found the value of Mr Adams pods, 
acquired for around £52,000 in July 2012, to be £15,000 as of January 2017. But several 
results of auctions of the pods show the sale price has been much lower than the price at 
which the pods were purchased.
In May 2014, the Self Storage Association of the UK (SSA UK) issued a press release 
(amended in January 2015), detailing the outcome of a review it had commissioned Deloitte 
LLP to undertake of the marketing material made available to potential investors by Store 
First. The release recommended that any potential investors in Store First storage units 
consider the following key points before taking any investment decision:
What will the impact be on the business model if VAT is charged on the rental of 
storage units to customers following a review by HMRC?
How is Store First funding guaranteed returns to investors? Is this from operating 
profits, the proceeds from the sale of other storage pods to investors, or a 
different source?
Compare the total value being paid for all the units in a Store First self storage 
site against the price at which stand-alone self-storage businesses have been 
valued and sold at recently.
Consider if there is a realistic re-sale opportunity for, and exit, from this 
investment, particularly if Store First exits the business.
Research the performance of investments based on a similar investment model 
that have been offered primarily in Australia, such as Ikin Self Storage in 
Townsville, Queensland and Strata Self Storage in Melbourne (these schemes had failed).
The release refers to a number of misleading and inaccurate statements made by Store First 
in its marketing material. It also makes the following observations:
SSA UKs investigations indicate that these storage units are being rented to the 
general public at approximately £18 - £21 per square foot including insurance. 
Normally the rent paid by a self-storage operator would be at most half of the income 
per square foot earned through storage fees. Presuming the Store First sites were at 
industry average occupancy levels, SSA UK believe that they would have to be 
earning £23.95 per square foot just to pay the guaranteed rent to investors, excluding 
operating costs such as insurance, staff, business rates, utilities, marketing and 
management fees for Store First.
Store First is obliged to pay the guaranteed returns to investors, yet there does not 
appear to be sufficient income from the operations of the business to fund these returns.
The analysis SSA UK has seen indicates that the purchase price being paid per 
square foot by investors to Store First for these self-storage units taken together 
equates to a much higher value than they would be worth if the whole sites were sold 
as stand-alone self- storage stores.
...a very serious question arises over how Store First is funding the guaranteed 
returns to existing investors, considering the absence of bank funding and the likely 
level of losses that require funding in each new store. It may yet prove to be the case 
that the rental returns being paid to investors are in fact being funded from the sale 
proceeds of new units, and not the operation of the self- storage business.
On 30 April 2019 the courts made an order shutting down Store First and three of the related 
companies by consent between those four companies and the Secretary of State. The 
Official Receiver was appointed as liquidator. At the time, the Chief Investigator for the 
Insolvency Service said:
These four companies unscrupulously secured millions of pounds worth of 
investments using a variety of methods that misled investors, particularly those 
with pension savings.
The court rightly recognised the sheer scale of the problem caused by Store 
Firsts sales of a flawed business model, based on misrepresentation and 
misleading information and has shut down these companies in recognition of 
the damage done to investors retirement plans.
Summary of Mr Bs investments
Store First
3 May 2011  Options is contacted by a promoter of Store First, Harley Scott, about a newly 
launched product  Store First. Options says the investment will be put through its review 
process.
In its submissions to us, Options says this review process was established in accordance 
with its obligations and FSA recommendations at the time, which required it to conduct: 
...due diligence into the Store First investment to assess its suitability for holding within a 
SIPP.9 June 2011  Options says it will accept the investment in its SIPP having considered:
the brochure
the agreement for Grant of Sublease
the sublease
Companies House searches
a Compliance review (referring to an Enhanced Support Solutions report)
Options has provided our service with copies of these documents.
In the letter confirming its acceptance of the investment, Options noted:
The investor purchases a 250-year lease of a storage unit within a storage 
facility. The unit is then sublet to the management company, Store First, subject 
to an initial six-year term with two-year break clauses.
The investor's interest can be sold/assigned at any time. The break clauses 
allow the investor to rent out the units individually without the services of the 
management company (but it insisted they use the management company).
There was no apparent established market for the investment.
The investment was potentially illiquid in that it was a direct property investment 
which may take time to sell. However, it could be sold providing a willing buyer 
can be found and was assignable so could be transferred in-specie to 
beneficiaries.
It also said its acceptance was subject to a member declaration and indemnity 
being completed and signed by each member, and the appointment of a 
solicitor to act for the Trustees in respect of any purchase.
8 May 2012  Mr Bs investment in Store First was completed.
GAS Verdant
The GAS Verdant Australian Farmland investment took the form of a land purchase 
contract which involved a company based in Cyprus (GAS Global Agricultural Services Ltd) 
leasing plots of agricultural land in Australia to investors. Crops were to be planted on the 
plots, and the objective was to provide an income to investors through the sale of those 
crops and capital growth through the sale of the plot of land after eight years. The investor 
would then receive 80% of the net revenue from the yield of the land for eight years. After 
this, the land could be sold.
Options hasnt provided a detailed account of the due diligence it carried out in relation to the 
GAS Verdant investment. But it has said in its submissions that it: ...completed appropriate 
due diligence in respect of the investments by ensuring that it [GAS Verdant] was suitable to 
be held in a UK registered pension scheme. This included a review of the Investment 
information, company background checks and also an independent report from an external 
third party compliance entity.
Options said that from its due diligence checks in relation to GAS Verdant, it concluded it 
was suitable to be held within a SIPP. It noted, however, that it did not, and was not, 
required to assess the suitability of the investment for an individuals circumstances as it 
does not, and is not, permitted to provide advice. Options added that it is also not 
responsible for the performance, the level of income or the liquidity of the investment. 
17 July 2012  Mr Bs investment in GAS Verdant was completed.Mr Bs dealings with CL&P and Options 
Mr B had an existing personal pension with Scottish Life. The cash value of this was 
switched into a SIPP with Options, and invested in Store First and GAS Verdant after hed 
been contacted by CL&P. Mr B was contacted by CL&P who told him that hed get a better 
pension by transferring his personal pension into a SIPP with investments in Store First and 
GAS Verdant.
On 1 March 2012 Mr B signed an application form to open a new SIPP with Options. Within 
this application form he agreed to waive his right to cancel his SIPP within 30 days of 
establishment. The application form was largely completed in type. Mr B signed a letter of 
authority electing to use CL&P Brokers as his introducers and Options received a letter of 
authority to that effect, alongside the SIPP application form on 5 March 2012.
A welcome letter was sent by Options to Mr B on 5 March 2012. This confirmed the opening 
of the SIPP and included a transfer authority letter for Mr B to sign and send to Scottish Life. 
Options also sent Mr B a copy of the terms and conditions of the SIPP as well as its key 
features. The terms and conditions and key features both say that the customer is 
recommended to seek independent advice before entering into any arrangement.
Mr Bs personal pension funds of £94,554.80 were transferred into the SIPP on 22 March 
2012. And Options sent Mr B an email on 2 April 2012 to confirm that these funds had been 
successfully transferred.
Mr B signed an ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT  STOREFIRST MEMBER DECLARATION 
& INDEMITY form in relation to the Store First investment. This was an instruction to 
purchase the Store First investment and signed by Mr B and a third party witness on 11 April 
2012. The form made the following statements:
I, [Mr B] being the member of the above Scheme instruct Options Pension 
Trustees UK Ltd to Purchase a Leasehold Storage Unit(s) in the Store First 
investment through Harley-Scott Holdings Ltd for a consideration of £45,750, on 
my behalf for the above Scheme.
I am fully aware that this investment is an Alternative Investment and as such is 
High Risk and/or Speculative.
As the Member of the Pension Scheme, I confirm that neither I nor any person 
connected to me is receiving a monetary or other inducement for transacting this 
investment.
I confirm that I have read and understand the documentation regarding this 
investment and have taken my own advice, including financial, investment and tax 
advice.
I am fully aware that both Options Pensions UK LLP and Options Pension 
Trustees UK Ltd act on an Execution Only Basis and confirm that neither Options 
Pensions UK LLP nor Options Pension Trustees UK Ltd have provided any advice 
whatsoever in respect of this investment.
I confirm that my business/occupation is not renting out storage units.
Should any aspect of this investment be deemed by HMRC to provide Taxable 
Moveable Property and/or any tax charges be deemed by HMRC to apply in future 
these will be paid directly from the fund or by me as the member of the Scheme.I also understand and agree that, in the event of my demise, if Options Pension 
Trustees UK Ltd is unable to sell the asset within HMRC timescales that it may be 
transferred to my beneficiaries through my estate and accordingly may be subject 
to any Inheritance Tax.
I instruct Carey Pensions to appoint the following solicitor to act on behalf of the 
Scheme:
[details of solicitor]
I confirm that I agree to [name of solicitor] fee of £400 + VAT for transacting this 
investment.
I confirm I am fully aware that additional costs will be incurred in this transaction 
including, but not limited to:
£48 CHAPs Fee;
£8 Land Registry Search Fee;
Stamp Duty Land Tax - To be advised by Solicitor at completion;
Any other taxes - To be advised by Solicitor at completion;
I agree to Carey Pensions fee of £500 + VAT, amounting for transacting this 
investment.
I agree that any and all fees and costs will be paid by my Scheme, or in the event 
of default, by me personally.
I indemnify both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pensions Trustees Ltd 
against any and all liability arising from this investment
In this decision I will refer to this document as the indemnity. Another indemnity form, 
containing similar wording, was used in respect of the GAS Verdant investment for the sum 
of £45,000. It was signed by Mr B and a third party witness on 7 April 2012.
Mr Bs complaint
In summary, Mr B complained that Options was responsible for his loss as it had failed to 
carry out sufficient due diligence on either the investment and/ or the introducer. He pointed 
to the notice of Mr Wright not being taken into consideration by Options.
Options rejected Mr Bs complaint. In brief, it said that it was an execution only business and 
was not responsible for the losses suffered by Mr B as it had no involvement in the 
recommendation of the investments to him. It noted in relation to its due diligence on 
introducers that it made changes following the regulators thematic review in September 
2009 and adherence to treating its customers fairly.
Mr B brought his complaint to our Service. The investigator recommended upholding the 
complaint saying, amongst other things, that he didnt think Options had adequately carried 
out due diligence on the introducer. And if it had done so, it would not have accepted 
business from CL&P and this would have avoided Mr Bs losses.
Options disagreed so the matter was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional 
decision in this case on 23 January 2023. I said I was minded to uphold the complaint for 
reasons I will set out below.Options disagreed with the reasoning set out in my provisional decision. Amongst other 
things, it said my decision and/ or our Service had:
Failed to consider whether the duties suggested in this case would be recognised by 
a Court or whether legal liability would exist in this case. 
Failed to have proper regard to the fact that the duties would not be recognised by a 
Court and legal liability would not exist in this case.
Improperly used the FCAs Principles for Businesses (the Principles) to derive new 
and unexpected duties which are inconsistent with the broader regulatory regime.
Held Options to a standard which is unclear and is on any view much more 
demanding than is fair or reasonable.
Failed to acknowledge that, on balance, regardless of the action or inaction taken by 
Options, given Mr Bs conduct, the outcome and the loss allegedly suffered would 
have been the same.
Failed to acknowledge that the alleged loss that Mr B has suffered is within the 
realms of the possible performance of an investment. The mere underperformance of 
an investment does not create a wrong or liability.
Failed to correctly apply Section (s) 27 and Section 28 of FSMA.
Failed to set out where it has departed from the law, and why it has taken that 
approach. 
Failed to apply the settled legal principles of causation and contributory negligence in 
circumstances where it is clear that Mr B was determined to proceed with the 
investment regardless of whether or not Options accepted his application.
In addition, Options requested an oral hearing with the Ombudsman in order to properly 
determine Mr Bs complaint.
The matter has now been passed back to me to reconsider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Options request for an oral hearing
Options say an oral hearing is necessary to explore the extent of CL&Ps role, Mr Bs 
understanding of the investments and the roles played by the parties. And Mr Bs motivation 
for entering into the transaction. Ive considered Options request as follows:
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides a scheme under which certain disputes may be 
resolved quickly and with minimum formality (section 225 of FSMA). The FCAs Dispute 
Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (DISP) 3.5.5R provides the following:
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties 
to take part in a hearing. A hearing may be held by any means which the 
Ombudsman considers appropriate in the circumstances, including by telephone. No 
hearing will be held after the Ombudsman has determined the complaint.
Given my statutory duty under FSMA to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality, I am satisfied that it would not normally be necessary for me to hold a hearing in 
most cases (see the Court of Appeals decision in R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642). So, the key question for me to consider when deciding whether a hearing should be held is whether or not: the complaint 
can be fairly determined without convening a hearing.
We do not operate in the same way as the Courts. Unlike a Court, we have the power to 
carry out our own investigation. And the rules (DISP 3.5.8R) mean I, as the Ombudsman 
determining this complaint, am able to decide the issues on which evidence is required and 
how that evidence should be presented. I am not restricted to oral cross-examination to 
further explore or test points.
If I decide particular information is required to decide a complaint fairly, in most 
circumstances we are able to request this information from either party to the complaint, or 
even from a third party. In this case, our Investigator sought some further information from 
Mr B, and he referred to what he considered to be the key points in his view. Options has 
had the opportunity to consider, and comment on, that view. Further, I have issued a 
provisional decision and again, Options has had the opportunity to consider, and comment 
on, that provisional decision.
I have carefully considered the submissions Options has made. However, I am satisfied that 
I am able to fairly determine this complaint without convening a hearing. In this case, I am 
satisfied I have sufficient information to make a fair and reasonable decision. So, I do not 
consider a hearing is required. Mr Bs understanding of matters are secondary to this. And I 
am, in any event, able to test this to the extent I think necessary by asking questions of Mr B 
in writing.
As I am satisfied it is not necessary for me to hold an oral hearing, I will now turn to 
considering the merits of Mr Bs complaint. But before I set out the reasoning for my 
decision, I consider it important for me to say that in considering what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Despite Options further submissions, I dont consider it provided any further evidence that 
has impacted on my provisional findings. Ill explain why.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles are of particular relevance to my decision. The Principles, 
which are set out in the FCAs (formerly the FSA) handbook: ...are a general statement of 
the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN1.1.2G). I consider 
the Principles most relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS [the Financial Ombudsman Service] would find it 
hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort of high level 
Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are 
of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their 
relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time.
He concluded it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not 
merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA 
shows that they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general 
application. The aim of the Principles based regulation described by Ouseley J. 
was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible 
circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described above. And included the Principles and good industry practice at the time as 
relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in Berkeley Burke. So, the Principles are a relevant consideration here and I will consider them in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint.
The Adams Court cases
I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in Adams v Options SIPP [2020] 
EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I note the Supreme Court refused Options permission 
to appeal the Court of Appeal judgement.
Ive considered whether these judgments mean the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case. Im of the view they do not. In the High Court case, HHJ Dight 
did not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the pleadings 
submitted by Mr Adams. 
One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found the judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was not 
of direct relevance to the case before him was because: ...the specific regulatory provisions 
which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was asked to consider are not those which have 
formed the basis of the claimants case before me. Likewise, the Principles were not 
considered by the Court of Appeal. So, the judgments say nothing about the application of 
the FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.
I acknowledge that the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 2.1.1R (A firm must act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client), overlaps 
with certain of the Principles and this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court 
case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a 
breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS 
claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options had complied with the best 
interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.
Although Mr Adams appeal of the High Court judgment was partially successful, the Court of 
Appeal rejected the part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found this part of Mr Adams appeal 
did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that in the High Court judgment, HHJ Dight found the factual context of a case would 
inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 
one has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in 
the context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their 
roles and functions in the transaction.
The issues in Mr Bs complaint are different from the issues as pleaded in Adams. There are 
also significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and 
from the issues in Mr Bs complaint.
The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In 
particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship between the parties in the 
context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that happened after the contract 
was entered into. In Mr Bs complaint, I am considering whether Options ought to have identified that the introductions from CL&P involved a risk of consumer detriment and, if so, 
whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from CL&P prior to entering into a 
contract with Mr B.
On this point I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding that Options was not obliged, and was 
not able to, give advice to Mr B on the suitability of its SIPP or the investments for him 
personally. But Im satisfied Options obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/ or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses. And this is consistent with Options own understanding of its 
obligations at the relevant time. As noted above, the introducer profile completed at the 
outset of Options relationship with CL&P said: 
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due 
diligence as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce 
clients to us to gain some insight into the business they carry out.
s27/s28 FSMA
The Court of Appeal overturned the High Court judgment on the basis of the claim pursuant 
to s27 FSMA. s27 FSMA provides that an agreement between an authorised person and 
another party, which is otherwise properly made in the course of the authorised persons 
regulated activity, is unenforceable as against that other party if it is made: ...in 
consequence of something said or done by another person (the third party) in the course of 
a regulated activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the general prohibition.
s27(2) provides that the other party is entitled to recover:
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the 
agreement; and
 (b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted 
with it.
s28(3) FSMA provides that:
If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the 
case, it may allow
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be 
retained.
The General Prohibition is set out in s19 FSMA. It stipulates that:
No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport 
to do so, unless he is a) an authorised person; or
b) an exempt person.
In Adams, the Court of Appeal concluded that the unauthorised introducer of the SIPP had 
carried out activities in contravention of the General Prohibition, and so s27 FSMA applied. It 
further concluded that it would not be just and equitable to nonetheless allow the agreement 
to be enforced (or the money retained) under the discretion afforded to it by s28(3) FSMA.
At paragraph 115 of the judgment the Court set out five reasons for reaching this conclusion. 
The first two of these were:
i) A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, 
while consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their 
own decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard 
consumers from their own folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens 
contentions that Mr Adams caused his own losses and misled Carey;
ii) While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from 
unregulated sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks 
associated with doing so onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of 
being unable to enforce agreements and being required to return money and 
other property and to pay compensation regardless of whether they had had 
knowledge of third parties contraventions of the general prohibition;
The other three reasons, in summary, were:
The volume and nature of business being introduced by the introducer was such as 
to put Options on notice of the danger that the introducer was recommending clients 
to invest in the investments and set up Options SIPPs to that end. There was thus 
reason for Options to be concerned about the possibility of the introducer advising on 
investments within the meaning of article 53 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO).
Options was aware that contrary to what the introducer had previously said, it was 
taking high commission from the investment provider. And that there were indications 
the introducer was offering consumers cash back and one of those running the 
introducer was subject to an FSA warning notice.
The investment did not proceed until after the time by which Options had reasons for 
concern and so it was open to Options to decline the investment, or at least explore 
the position with Mr Adams.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The September 2009 and October 2012 thematic reviews.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 thematic review (the 2009 review)
The 2009 review included the following statement:We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to 
the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure 
the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes 
clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF [treating customers fairly] 
consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them 
to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management 
information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and 
consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be 
addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to confirm the 
position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, 
while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP 
operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor 
advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of 
individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not 
safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the 
Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended. 
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, 
having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, 
making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons 
for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance (the guidance), the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007. All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide 
advice must meet Principle 6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer 
under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with 
reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes. 
The guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, 
as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it 
administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder 
money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships 
and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax- 
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and are 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. The Dear CEO 
letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in relation to investment 
due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberationEnsuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets 
is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reviews and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance, whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is. However, the fact the reviews and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles apply and are an indication 
of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its customers fairly and 
produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
In that respect the publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP 
operators should be doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good 
industry practice. Im therefore satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account in this case.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that: the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman.
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact the publications, other than 
the 2009 thematic review, post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Bs 
complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide were not good practice at 
the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did 
the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed. 
I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 
SIPP operator guidance and/ or 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his 
consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow that those publications are 
irrelevant to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I am required to take into account good industry practice at the time. And, as 
mentioned, the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
That doesnt mean that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Options actions with these documents in mind. The reviews, the Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the 
suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on 
the circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
pension transfer was suitable for Mr B. It is accepted Options was not required to give advice 
to Mr B, and could not give advice. And I accept the publications do not alter the meaning of, 
or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by 
the Principles.
What did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a particular 
introducer is appropriate to deal with. As noted above, its clear from Options non-regulated 
introducer profile, that it understood and accepted its obligations meant it had a responsibility 
to carry out due diligence on CL&P.
I am satisfied that to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its business, Options 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business with the 
Principles in mind. This seems consistent with Options own understanding. I note in 
submissions on other complaints Options has told us that adherence to TCF is something it 
had in mind when considering its approach to introducer due diligence i.e. the question of 
whether it should accept business from a particular introducer.
Overall, Im satisfied that in order to meet the appropriate standards of good industry 
practice and the obligations set by the regulators rules and regulations, Options should have 
carried out due diligence on CL&P which was consistent with good industry practice and its 
regulatory obligations at the time. And in my opinion, Options should have used the 
knowledge it gained from its due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of 
business or particular investment.
Due diligence on CL&P
The actions Options took  which were carried out after its relationship with CL&P began, 
rather than before it accepted business from CL&P  are set out in detail in the background 
sections above. So, I will not repeat them here. However, I would note at this point that the 
actions Options took, in addition to being taken after Options began accepting business from 
CL&P, appear to have been taken on a reactive, piecemeal, basis.
In addition, the available evidence shows Options did not meet its own standards when 
carrying out due diligence on CL&P. From late 2011, in accordance with its own standards 
(as submitted to us), it should have carried out company checks on CL&P, reviewed CL&Ps 
accounts, and checked sanctions lists. As I set out above, these standards appear to be 
consistent with good industry practice and Options regulatory obligations at the relevant 
time (although it is not clear what a check of sanctions lists would encompass). However, 
Options did not - in practice - act in a way which was consistent with good industry practice 
and its regulatory obligations at the relevant time. I explain this in more detail below.
The FSA listCL&P was an unregulated business, based in Spain, and was proposing to deal with the 
pensions of UK consumers. Options ought to have known the FSA kept a list of alerts, 
relating to unregulated businesses, which were often based overseas. Options has not 
explained what a search/check of sanctions lists entailed. But I think a check of such lists 
should have included the FSAs list of alerts. In any event, as a SIPP operator considering 
accepting business from an unregulated overseas firm, it should have been mindful of the 
FSAs list of alerts, and in compliance with its regulatory obligations, it ought to have 
checked this list before proceeding with accepting business from CL&P, whether it 
considered the FSAs list of alerts to be a sanctions list or not.
At the relevant time, the FSAs list featured warnings (alerts) about unauthorised individuals 
and businesses. And, in my view, checking the warnings posted on the FSAs website is 
something that Options should have done as a matter of course before it began accepting 
any business from CL&P. This is consistent with good industry practice as highlighted in the 
2009 thematic review and later documents. And, I find it would have been fair and 
reasonable, and in accordance with its regulatory obligations, for such a check to take place 
before it entered into a relationship with CL&P.
As part of its independent checks, Options used a risk intelligence tool called World Check. 
I understand this is a tool which is internationally recognised and commonly used by 
businesses to carry out background searches. And, I assume its use was part of what 
Options describes as searches when explaining the due diligence standards it introduced in 
late 2011  which, in my view, if they had been implemented effectively, were consistent with 
good industry practice and in compliance with Options regulatory obligations.
Although Options used the tool here, it failed to run checks on the appropriate persons at 
CL&P. On 20 September 2011 it ran checks on a Ms Adams and a Mr Lloyd. However, I 
understand that these individuals were only employees of CL&P and neither controlled nor 
managed CL&P. So, the fact the checks run on these individuals did not raise any issues is 
of little, if any, value. It does not mean that Options had met its regulatory obligations here. 
In my view, as a first step, Options ought to have carried out sufficient due diligence so as to 
properly establish who the directors or individuals who controlled CL&P were. Only then 
would it be able to run checks on the appropriate persons.
As part of its due diligence process, Options required CL&P to fill out a non-regulated 
introducer profile questionnaire. CL&P completed the questionnaire on 29 September 2011. 
The profile named the two directors of CL&P, one of which was Mr Wright. The profile made 
no mention of Ms Adams or Mr Lloyd. So, at this point, Options was aware Mr Wright was 
one of the directors of CL&P.
I note the profile CL&P completed asked the question: Are you and/or the Firm subject to 
any on-going FSA or other regulatory body review, action or censure. And, Mr Wright 
answered No to this question. However, it was not sufficient, in my view, to simply ask the 
introducer a general question. Rather, I think Options, acting fairly, with due regard to Mr Bs 
interests, should have carried out its own check on Mr Wright. And that appears to have 
been Options view too. Its comments suggest it understood it was good practice, consistent 
with its regulatory obligations, to make its own independent checks. So, it ought to have 
undertaken a check on Mr Wright before it began accepting introductions from CL&P.
Had Options checked the FSAs list in August 2011, it would have discovered that Mr Wright 
was the subject of the Alert which Ive set out in full above so I wont repeat it again here. 
This Alert was dated 15 October 2010.
If Options had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice 
at the relevant time it ought to have undertaken sufficient enquiries on CL&P to understand who its directors were, and checked the FSAs warning list as part of its due diligence on 
CL&P. Had it carried out these checks before accepting business from CL&P it would have 
discovered that CL&Ps director Mr Wright was on the FSA warning list. 
Cash incentives
In November 2011, Options become aware that: a potential member had asked when 
they would receive their money from their Store First Investment. This took place before it 
accepted Mr Bs application and payment for the investments. Options says the general risk 
of introducers offering cash incentives had been flagged to it by a trade body. Such 
payments are against the rules covering pensions and can attract a substantial tax charge 
from HMRC.
Options spoke to CL&P in a conference call on 9 December 2011. Options has told us that in 
that call CL&P: confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive 
any form of inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment 
and that CL&P policy does not include offering inducements. And an Options staff member: 
...emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients or connected parties receive 
any form of inducement for making particular investments.
I am not persuaded it was reasonable for Options to rely on what CL&P said when it clearly 
had information to show the position was contrary to that being set out to it by CL&P during 
the call. Options was aware cash incentives had been offered  discussing this was the 
purpose of the call with CL&P. In the circumstances, I do not think it was fair and 
reasonable for Options to proceed, based solely on a denial of this by CL&P. It should, at 
the very least, have taken independent steps to check things for itself. It could, for example, 
have contacted the clients it had received applications for before the date of the call, to ask 
them about cash incentives.
It did in the indemnity form that Mr B signed, ask him to confirm he had not received a cash 
incentive. This was something that did not appear in its earlier indemnity forms. 
Nonetheless, this does not negate the fact of Options being aware at least previously, of 
CL&P having provided incentives to clients and it (Options) having become aware of this 
fact. So, as I say, this was something it could have checked with previous customers to 
verify what Options had told them during the call to confirm whether cash incentives had 
ever been offered as part of the transfer to the SIPP.
Accounts
Based on the available evidence, it appears a request for CL&Ps accounts was not made 
by Options until 23 March 2012. Its not clear why the request was made at this time. But it 
seems CL& P did not respond as the request was repeated, as urgent, on 3 April 2012. But 
by this point Mr Bs SIPP had already been set up (5 March 2012) and the funds from his 
pension provider had been received into the SIPP account (22 March 2012).
CL&P replied to Options to say the information would be in the post the next day. However, 
when asked, Options has told us it has no record of receiving the information and that this 
was another likely factor in its eventual decision to end its relationship with CL&P.
In my opinion, it is fair and reasonable that Options should have met its own standards, set in 
late 2011, and should have checked CL&Ps accounts at the outset before accepting any 
business from it. This is a step it should reasonably have taken to meet its regulatory 
obligations.Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Options failed to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on CL&P before accepting business from it. And, in light of the 
Principles and FSA/FCA regulatory publications I have quoted above, this means Options did 
not comply with its regulatory obligations or with good industry practice at the relevant time.
If Options had completed sufficient due diligence, what ought it reasonably to have 
concluded?
In my opinion, I think Mr Wrights appearance on the FSAs list ought to have highlighted to 
Options that the regulator was concerned enough about his activities to warn consumers 
about him. And I think in the circumstances it is fair and reasonable to conclude that the 
warning was aimed at protecting consumers from detriment in their dealings with him.
With this in mind, I think the warning should have acted as a significant reason for Options to 
be concerned about any business Mr Wright was involved in  not just Cash In Your 
Pension. The warning mentioned that Mr Wright was involved in the area of pensions  
which is the same business area that CL&P was active in. And the warning said that 
Mr Wright was not authorised and may be targeting UK customers in connection with 
investment business conducted through an unregulated company, Cash In Your Pension.
I also think the presence of Mr Wright on the list, after he had answered No to a question 
asking him if he was subject to any FSA action or censure, should immediately have raised a 
red flag to Options  it should have given rise to significant concern about Mr Wrights 
conduct and integrity.
I note that Options ended its relationship with CL&P shortly after completing the check on 
Mr Wright. Im satisfied that this check was a factor in its decision to end the relationship. 
Options has told us that updated wording issued by the regulator in a 2013 warning about 
Mr Wright, if it had been published at the time of it accepting business from CL&P, this 
wouldve been sufficient to stop it doing business with Mr Wright and/ or CL&P. It said:
The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear warning including 
an express comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a warning that 
would have put Options Pensions on notice to stop accepting business from 
Mr Wright. (my emphasis)
Options says in relation to the FSAs list that the 2010 warning would not have led it to the 
same conclusion. It says:
the Notice (the alert) amounts simply to a notification that Mr Wright is not 
authorised to carry on regulated activities, a fact of which Options was well 
aware and upon which basis it accepted referrals from CL&P.
This seems to be at odds with the action it took in 2012, based on the 2010 warning. And I 
note Options Chief Executive, Ms Hallett, gave evidence to the court during the High Court 
Adams v Options hearing, which is summarised at Paragraph 60 of the judgment as follows:
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had 
published warnings about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, 
who was not authorised under FSMA to carry out regulated activity. 
Ms Hallett accepted in cross examination that no check was made to see 
whether his name appeared on a regulatory warning notice on the FCAs 
website until May 2012. The relationship between the defendant and CLP was severed on 25 May 2012. She accepted that had she been aware of 
such a warning in 2010 the defendant would not have dealt with CLP.
This, in my view, is inconsistent with Options representations to us. In any event, although 
Options has said it believes the 2010 alert was less significant than the 2013 one, by 
comparing the wording of the two, I think the 2010 alert was a clear indication that the 
regulator had serious concerns about the way Mr Wright conducted his business. And 
therefore should have put Options on notice that it should not accept business from him.
Options says the 2010 alert does not detail any concern by the regulator about Mr Wright. I 
accept the 2013 alert provides strong advice to only deal with financial firms authorised by the 
FCA. However, I do not agree with Options characterisation of the 2010 alert and Im surprised 
that Options suggests the regulator does not detail any concern about Mr Wright in this.
A publication headed ALERT in bold is clearly not routine and unimportant. Its clear from 
the wording itself that the FSA was warning investors against dealing with unauthorised firms 
and specifically named Mr Wright. He was involved in targeting (to use the FSAs phrase) 
UK based pension investors  which should have been of particular concern to a SIPP 
operator considering accepting business from him. The alert also provided links to:
A list of unauthorised firms.
A press release about unauthorised firms targeting UK investors.
A document telling investors about the tactics adopted by unauthorised firms 
targeting UK investors.
A document explaining share scams.
In my opinion, it is fair and reasonable to conclude the warning was more than a mere 
statement of fact that an unauthorised firm could not carry out regulated activities. It was a 
clear warning  an alert - relating specifically to Mr Wright, providing links to guidance on 
consumer protection and warnings about scams.
 
So, in my opinion, and despite what Options says, CL&Ps director Mr Wrights presence on 
the FSA warning list should have led it (Options) to conclude it should not do business with 
CL&P. That is my view and I note it is a view which was held by Ms Hallett when she gave 
evidence to the court during the Adams v Options hearing. Ms Hallett told the court that if 
she had been aware of the warning in 2010 Options would not have dealt with CL&P. Such a 
conclusion was the proper one it ought to have reached bearing in mind Options 
responsibilities under the Principles.
In addition, on the issue of cash incentives, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for 
Options to simply rely on a denial by CL&P in circumstances where it seems it (Options) was 
aware cash incentives were being offered. I think Options shouldve taken steps to 
independently check the position. And it is fair and reasonable to conclude that prompt action 
wouldve inevitably led Options to discover that cash incentive payments were being widely 
offered by CL&P at the time, and what CL&P had told Options, wasnt correct. It follows that 
Options ought to have concluded  as it belatedly did when the issue of cash incentives 
came to light again in 2012  that it couldnt rely on what CL&P had told it. And it would not 
be consistent with its regulatory obligations to deal with any further business from it.
If Options had acted with a reasonable amount of diligence it would have discovered that 
CL&P was acting in a way which was, to use its own words, completely against all rules. And 
it would have known that CL&P was acting without integrity  it had not told it the truth when 
asked about cash incentives. In my view, the only fair and reasonable thing it could do would have been to decide not to accept any further business from CL&P and not to proceed with 
any applications which had not completed (that is to say the investment had not been made).
In Mr Bs case, at least one of his investments  GAS Verdant  was not made until after 
Options severed ties with CL&P due to the information it received about Mr Wright. Despite 
this, it still proceeded with the investment and there is no evidence it drew Mr Bs attention to 
its concerns at that point. Whilst the Store First investment came after Options took action to 
sever its relationship with CL&P, if it had acted sooner, as I think it should have done, Mr B 
could have prevented the transfer to the SIPP and the subsequent investments he made.
Finally, I think if checks on CL&Ps accounts had been attempted earlier, the fact that CL&P 
were unwilling to provide this information should have raised a red flag, as it apparently 
eventually did. This information was requested and chased around the time of Mr Bs 
application for the SIPP and prior to his investments. CL&Ps reluctance to provide basic 
information should have been a further factor which ought to have led Options to question 
whether it should enter into or continue a relationship with CL&P. And, it would have meant 
Options should never have entered into a relationship with CL&P at all.
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Options ought reasonably to 
have concluded, had it complied with its regulatory obligations which required it to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on CL&P before accepting business from it, that it should not accept 
business from CL&P. If Options had carried out proper introducer due diligence it ought to 
have concluded that it should not accept business from CL&P. I therefore conclude that it is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say Options should not have accepted Mr Bs 
SIPP application from CL&P. 
Furthermore, had Options complied with its regulatory obligations - which required it to 
consider and act on information received about the conduct of CL&P before continuing to 
accept business from it  it should, in any event, have concluded it should not proceed with 
Mr Bs application, given everything I say above about the issue of cash incentives.
Investment due diligence
As Ive explained above, Options should neither have accepted Mr Bs introduction from 
CL&P nor proceeded with his application to make the Store First and the GAS Verdant 
investments. I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint on that basis alone.
 
Nevertheless, given the submissions that Options has previously made about its due 
diligence on Store First in particular, and the regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice I have set out above, Ive also considered the due diligence that Options carried out 
on these investments. I have taken the same approach to considering this as I did to 
considering the due diligence undertaken on CL&P.
The actions Options took are set out in detail in the background sections above, so I will not 
repeat them here. I think some of the actions Options took were in-line with good practice at 
the relevant time when carrying out its due diligence on Store First. However, I think Options 
failed to take all the actions that were required of it in order to comply with its regulatory 
obligations and good practice. And, based on what it knew, it failed to draw a reasonable 
conclusion on accepting the investment. I do not think Options actions went far enough, and 
I think it ought to have carried out further enquiries in the light of what was revealed by the 
due diligence it did carry out. I note the company searches were carried out using a service called Company Searches. This 
was good practice but, consistent with its regulatory obligations, Options should not only have 
carried out the searches but also given careful consideration to what they revealed.
In respect of the searches these were carried out on the promoter of Store First, Harley Scott 
Holdings Ltd, not Store First itself  perhaps because at that point Store First was just being 
established. The result of the searches reported that Harley Scott Holdings Ltd had a 
website address dylanharvey.com, and had changed its name three times having 
previously been called Dylan Harvey Group Ltd, Dylan Harvey Ltd and Grangemate Ltd. The 
report also said County Court Judgments (CCJs) were recorded against the business and 
that auditors had made adverse comments in the previous three reporting years.
Its not clear what consideration Options gave to this report, after it obtained it. But, in my 
view, it would have been fair and reasonable for it to have conducted some further basic 
searches, given there were factors in the report which ought to have been of concern  
namely the adverse comments for the previous three years, the CCJs, and the fact the 
business had recently changed its name.
Had such basic searches been completed I think it likely they would have revealed that, at the 
time, Dylan Harvey and one of its directors, Toby Whittaker, were the subject of a national 
press reports, online petitions and proposed legal action, as a result of a failed property 
investment. It was reported that hundreds of investors had invested money in a scheme to 
develop flats, but the flats had not been built and the investors had been unable to recover 
their money. Those investors were behind the online petitions and proposed legal action.
Options says it obtained copies of Store Firsts marketing material. It has provided us with 
copies of this. Again, I accept that potentially this was good practice. In order to correctly 
understand the nature of the investment, I think its fair and reasonable to say Options 
should have reviewed how Store First was marketed to investors  particularly as it was 
proceeding on the basis that these investments were being made by consumers without 
regulated advice being provided. Clearly Options thought it was important to look at this 
material at the time too. But, again, consistent with its regulatory obligations, Options should 
not only have obtained the material but should have given careful consideration to it.
The marketing material included the following prominent statements:
You will receive guaranteed returns from a 6 year lease already in place 
upon completion, making this a high yielding, hassle-free investment which 
has been specifically designed to meet the needs of todays astute investor. 
You will receive a 6 year lease in place upon completion. The lease 
produces an excellent return of 8% (guaranteed for the first 2 years) rising to 
over 12% in years 5 and 6. The lease contains upward-only rental reviews 
and break clauses for both parties every two years.
It then goes on to set out in a table the returns payable in years 1&2, 3&4 and 5&6 at 8%, 
10% and 12%. In the question and answer section the following is included:
What rental income can I expect?
Storepod rental starts at £17 per Sq/Ft per annum. The 6 year tenancy/Iease in 
place on your Storepod has fixed upwards only rental reviews and break 
clauses (for both parties) every 2 years. This produces an 8% yield on your 
investment within the first two years, this then is predicted to rise to over 10% 
return in years 3&4 and then surpass 12% return in years 5&6.Can I easily re-sell my Storepod?
Yes. You can re-sell your Storepod at any time and selling your Storepod 
couldnt be simpler. Store First Ltd can market your Storepod upon your 
request. We believe that because Storepods are so competitively priced when 
new, they will make a very attractive sale proposition in the future. We also 
expect that many tenants will wish to purchase the Storepod they are using. For 
example, other self storage PLCs usually achieve rent of between £20.00 - 
£25.00 per square foot. Our Storepods are costed at a rent of only £17.00 per 
square foot; once higher rents are achieved the capital value of the Storepod 
will increase.
Guaranteed exit route?
In year 5, investors have the option to enter the guaranteed buy-back scheme. 
In this scheme, Store First Management Ltd will guarantee to buy the Storepod 
back off the investor for the original price paid within the next 5 years. This is a 
unique offer in the market place and we are happy to be able to offer this exit 
route to our investors.
Most investors are driven to keep the property investment they have purchased 
and carry on receiving the rental yield produced for years to come, this means 
only a very limited number of Storepods per centre will ever come onto the 
resale market, this creates a high sale value and demand for the future.
The material says: figures shown are for illustration purposes. But it does not contain any 
type of risk warning, or illustrations of any other returns. No explanation of the guarantees 
was offered, or the basis of the projected returns  other than Store Firsts own confidence in 
its business model and the self-storage marketplace. 
I note Options considered a report by Enhanced Support Solutions (ESS). In my view this 
was of limited value. It was cursory and based only on some of the material Options had 
regard to i.e. the marketing material and lease documents. As a result, I think Options should 
have found it difficult to reconcile the view reached by ESS with the information available to 
it. The report said: 
The following parties are involved in this investment:
Seller of the sub-lease: Store First Limited
UK Promoter: Harley Scott Holdings Limited
No adverse history has been found affecting these parties.
A CCJ was issued against the promoter of the scheme however we 
understand this arose from a disputed invoice which is in the course of 
being settled. This is any event does not directly impact on the investment.
This conclusion is inconsistent with the result of Options own company searches. The report also 
makes no comment on the obvious issues with the marketing material. So, I dont think Options 
could have taken any comfort from the ESS report or attached any significant weight to it.
In terms of the GAS Verdant investment, there is less information about what checks were 
carried out by Options other than it says it reviewed investment information, company 
background checks and also an independent report from an external third party compliance 
entity. But again, it makes no reference to what conclusions it drew from this information.GAS Verdant was an unregulated, esoteric, high-risk investment. It took the form of a land 
purchase contract which involved a company based in Cyprus leasing plots of agricultural 
land in Australia to investors. Crops were to be planted on the plots, and the objective was to 
provide an income to investors through the sale of those crops and capital growth through the 
sale of the plot of land. As Options said in its documents at the time of opening Mr Bs SIPP, 
these types of investments involved significant risks and a lack of protections.
Whilst Options did draw Mr Bs attention to these risks, there is no reasoning given as to why 
it thought such an unusual and high-risk venture was appropriate to hold in its SIPPs. As I 
said above, Options should not only have carried out the searches but also given careful 
consideration to what they revealed so that it could be satisfied the investment was real and 
secure and operated as claimed and could be independently valued.
As the FCA has noted, it is difficult to complete due diligence for non-standard overseas 
investment schemes where firms do not always have access to local qualified legal 
professionals or accountants. Consistent with its regulatory obligations, Options should not 
only have obtained adequate material to make a properly informed decision but it should 
have given careful consideration to it. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it went beyond 
basic checks as it did with the Store First investment.
In any event, as Ive said, even if Options did carry out appropriate due diligence checks on 
the investments themselves, which Im not satisfied it did, it should not have accepted Mr Bs 
introduction from CL&P due to the issues Ive set out above about that business. 
If Options had completed sufficient due diligence on Store First and GAS Verdant, 
what ought it reasonably to have concluded?
The failure of the previous scheme which Dylan Harley/ Harley Scott Holdings had been 
involved in may have been entirely down to market forces. But I think the fact that the 
company which had approached Options about Store First  and on which Options had 
conducted searches  had recently been involved in a property investment scheme which 
had failed, had recently changed its name, and had been subject to a number of adverse 
comments in succession, following audit, ought to have given Options significant cause for 
concern. Particularly when it considered the marketing material for Store First.
In my view there were a number of things about the marketing material which ought to have 
given Options significant cause for concern and to have led it to have drawn similar 
conclusions to those later drawn by SSA UK (on the basis of a report by Deloitte LLP) and 
the Insolvency Service. Namely, that there was a significant risk that potential investors were 
being misled.
I think, as it had regard to this material, Options could not overlook the fact that Store First 
appeared to be presenting the investment as one that was assured to provide high and rising 
returns, was underwritten by guarantees, and offered a high level of liquidity together with a 
strong prospect of a capital return - despite the fact that there was no investor protection 
associated with the investment and that, in Options own words, there was no apparent 
established market for the investment and the investment was potentially illiquid.
Store First had no proven track record for investors and so Options couldnt be certain that 
the investment operated as claimed. Options should also have been concerned about a 
guarantee offered by a new business with no track record (and promoted by a business with 
a questionable one).
I think, in light of this, Options should have been concerned that consumers may have been 
misled or did not properly understand the investment they intended to make. Consumers could easily have been given the impression, from the marketing material, that they were 
assured of high returns with little or no risk and would easily be able to sell their investment 
when they wished to. Such an impression was clearly misleading.
As I said above, its unclear what findings Options made about the GAS Verdant investment 
following its checks. Or what conclusions it drew from the information/documents it obtained 
before allowing this investment to be held within its SIPP. But I think all of this should have 
been considered alongside the fact the investment was being sold by an unregulated 
business, which was based abroad and was clearly targeting pension investors. In my 
opinion it is fair and reasonable that Options ought to have concluded there was an obvious 
risk of consumer detriment.
Overall, I am satisfied that Options ought to have had a significant cause for concern about 
the nature of both the Store First and GAS Verdant investments from the beginning. And I 
think these concerns, in themselves, should have at the very least led it to be very cautious 
about accepting these investments into its SIPP and to think very carefully about the basis 
on which it should be accepted, mindful of its obligation to prevent consumer detriment. So 
this should have been at the forefront of its mind when considering whether to accept 
applications from CL&P.
Did Options act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Bs instructions?
I note that Options has made the point that COBS 11.2.19R obliged it to execute investment 
instructions. It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, it is required to 
execute the specific instructions of its client.
Before considering this point, I think it is important for me to reiterate that, it was not fair and 
reasonable for Options to have accepted Mr Bs application from CL&P in the first place. So 
in my opinion, Mr Bs SIPP should not have been established and the opportunity to execute 
investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity should not have arisen at all.
In any event, Options argument about having to execute the transaction as a result of COBS 
11.2.19R was considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case Jacobs J said:
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in 
which orders are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the client. This 
is consistent with the heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best 
execution. The text of COBS 11.2.1R is to the same effect. The expression 
when executing orders indicates that it is looking at the moment when the firm 
comes to execute the order, and the way in which the firm must then conduct 
itself. It is concerned with the mechanics of execution; a conclusion reached, 
albeit in a different context, in Bailey & Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 
(QB), paras [34]  [35]. It is not addressing an anterior question, namely whether 
a particular order should be executed at all. I agree with the FCAs submission 
that COBS 11.2 is a section of the Handbook concerned with the method of 
execution of client orders, and is designed to achieve a high quality of execution. 
It presupposes that there is an order being executed, and refers to the factors 
that must be taken into account when deciding how best to execute the order. It 
has nothing to do with the question of whether or not the order should be 
accepted in the first place.
I therefore dont think that Options argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under 
the Principles to decide whether or not to accept an application to open a SIPP in the first 
place or to execute the instruction to make the Store First and GAS Verdant investments i.e. 
to proceed with the application.The indemnity
The indemnity sought to confirm that Mr B was aware the investment was high risk, had taken 
his own advice, and would not hold Options responsible for any liability resulting from the 
investment. However, from what I understand, unlike earlier indemnities, it did ask Mr B to 
confirm that he or any person connected to him did not receive a monetary or other inducement.
The FSAs 2009 report said that SIPP operators should, as an example of good practice, be: 
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers taking 
responsibility for investment decisions and gathering and analysing data regarding the 
aggregate volume of such business. With this in mind, I think Options ought to have been 
cautious about accepting Mr Bs application even though he had signed the indemnities. 
There was no evidence of any other regulated party (other than Options) being involved in 
this transaction. In these circumstances I think very little comfort could have been taken from 
the declaration stating that Mr B had taken his own advice and understood the risks (in 
relation to the investment).
Options had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory obligations that Ive set 
out in this decision. In my view, Options was not treating Mr B fairly by asking him to sign an 
indemnity absolving Options of all responsibility, and relying on such an indemnity, when it 
ought to have known that Mr Bs dealings with CL&P were putting him at significant risk.
Summary of my findings on due diligence
In summary, Options did not comply with good industry practice, act with due skill, care and 
diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr B fairly by accepting Mr Bs 
application from CL&P, in the light of what it knew or ought to have known about CL&P and 
the Store First and GAS Verdant investments before Mr Bs application was received. And 
by proceeding in the light of what it knew or ought to have known about CL&P and the 
investments by the time the investments were made. For all the reasons given, Im satisfied 
that this is the fair and reasonable conclusion to reach.
For the avoidance of doubt, Im not making a finding that Options should have assessed the 
suitability of the investment or the SIPP for Mr B. I accept Options had no obligation to give 
advice to Mr B, or otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or investment for him. 
Rather, Options was able to accept or reject applications for business and I say that it should 
have rejected Mr Bs application for a SIPP introduced by CL&P, and failing that, for the 
reasons I set out above, it should not have accepted his request to invest in Store First and/ 
or GAS Verdant made in May and July 2012 respectively.
s27 and s28 FSMA
As set out in the relevant considerations section above, I have also considered the 
application of s27 and s28 FSMA. I have set out the key sections of s27 and s28 above and 
have considered them carefully, in full. In my view I need to apply a four-stage test to 
determine whether s27 applies and whether a court would exercise its discretion under s28, 
as follows:
1. Whether an unauthorised third-party was involved;
2. Whether there is evidence that the third-party acted in breach of the General 
Prohibition in relation to the particular transaction and, if so;
3. Whether the customer entered into an agreement with an authorised firm in 
consequence of something said or done by the unauthorised third-party in the course 
of its activities that contravened the General Prohibition; and4. Whether it is just and equitable for the agreement between the customer and the 
authorised firm to be enforced in any event.
Was an unauthorised third-party involved?
There is no dispute CL&P was an unauthorised third party.
Is there evidence CL&P acted in breach of the General Prohibition?
Under article 53 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or 
in his capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as 
principal or agent) (i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a 
particular investment which is a security or a relevant investment, or (ii) 
exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe 
for or underwrite such an investment.
Under article 25 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to 
buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is -
(a) a security,
(b) a relevant investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as 
relevant to that article, is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling 
within paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also a 
specified kind of activity.
There is an exclusion under Article 26 of ...arrangements which do not or would not bring 
about the transaction to which the arrangements relate. 
Ive considered these in turn.
Advice
I think the following part of the Court of Appeals judgment in the Adams case is of particular 
relevance here
Paragraph 82: In short, CLPs recommendation that Mr Adams invest in storepods carried 
with it advice that he transfer out of his Friends Life policy and put the money into a Carey 
SIPP. Investment in storepods may have been the ultimate objective, but it was to be gained 
by transferring out of the Friends Life policy and into a Carey SIPP. CLP thus proposed that 
Mr Adams undertake those transactions too and, in so doing, gave advice on the merits of 
selling a particular investment which is a security (viz. the Friends Life policy) and buying another particular investment which is a security (viz. a Carey SIPP). Although, therefore, 
the advice to invest in storepods was not of itself covered by article 53 of the RAO, CLP 
nonetheless gave Mr Adams advice within the scope of article 53 and so acted in 
contravention of the general prohibition.
Here, Mr B was contacted by CL&P and his evidence is that CL&P advised him to transfer 
out of his existing personal pension, into the Options SIPP and invest in Store First and GAS 
Verdant. I think that evidence is plausible, and credible. I do not think Mr B thought of taking 
this course of action of his own volition or would have done so without a positive 
recommendation from CL&P which, he says, gave him various assurances about the risks 
involved and regulatory protections available. I also note it was CL&P which contacted Mr B 
 he did not find CL&P in the course of looking for alternative pension options.
To confirm, I am satisfied CL&P advised Mr B to transfer out of his existing pension and 
transfer into the Options SIPP  and so it undertook the regulated activity defined at article 
53 of the RAO.
Making arrangements
I think the following parts of the Court of Appeals judgement in the Adams case are of 
particular relevance here:
Paragraph 99: The fact remains that CLP pre-completed the application form so that 
[Mr Adams] could just sign it (to quote Mr Adams witness statement). It also told Mr Adams of 
documents he would need to supply for anti-money laundering purposes and explained that 
the completed forms and [his] anti money laundering documents will be collected by courier 
and taken to Carey Pensions UK. Arrangements being a broad and untechnical word in 
article 25 of the RAO as well as section 235 of FSMA, it is apt to describe what CLP did.
Paragraph 100:
I consider, too, that the steps which CLP took can fairly be said to have been 
such as to bring about the transfers from Friends Life and into the Carey SIPP. 
Contrary to the Judges understanding, it does not matter that CLPs acts did 
not necessarily result in any transaction between [Mr Adams] and [Carey] or 
that the process was out of CLPs hands to control in any event. Nor is it 
determinative whether steps can be termed administrative.
CLPs procuring the letter of authority, role in relation to anti-money laundering 
requirements and (especially) completion of the Carey application form were 
much more closely related to the relevant transactions than, say, the 
advertisement which originally prompted Mr Adams to contact CLP. It is to be 
remembered that CLP filled in sections of the application form dealing with 
Personal Details, Occupation & Eligibility, Transfers, Investments and 
Nomination of Beneficiaries. In my view, what CLP did was thus significantly 
instrumental in the material transfers. In other words, there was, in my view, 
sufficient causal potency to satisfy the requirements of article 26 of the RAO.
In Mr Bs case, at the outset Mr B gave Options: permission to liaise directly with CLP 
Brokers in respect of all matters regarding my pension arrangement. And it seems the 
application form was pre-populated by CL&P. 
So the steps which CL&P took can fairly be said to have been such as to bring about the 
transfer from Mr Bs existing personal pension into the Options SIPP  they had sufficient 
causal potency to satisfy the requirements of article 26 of the RAO.I am therefore satisfied CL&P carried out regulated activities, and therefore breached the 
General Prohibition. And any one regulated activity is sufficient for these purposes so this 
test would be met if CL&P had only undertaken arranging (which, for the reasons I have set 
out, I do not think is the case).
Did Mr B enter into an agreement with Options in consequence of CL&Ps actions?
I am satisfied the SIPP was opened in consequence of the advice given, and arrangements 
made, by CL&P. If CL&P had not contacted Mr B, advised him to transfer his existing 
personal pension to a SIPP with Options in order to invest in Store First and GAS Verdant, 
and then made the arrangements for that to happen I am satisfied Mr B would not have 
entered into an agreement with Options. 
Would the courts conclude it is just and equitable for the agreement between Mr B and 
Options to be enforced in any event?
Having carefully considered this, I am satisfied a court would not conclude it is just and 
equitable for the agreement between Mr B and Options to be enforced. I think very similar 
reasons to those mentioned by the Court of Appeal in the Adams case apply here:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things, to safeguard 
consumers from their own folly.
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, s27 FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so onto the 
providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce agreements and 
being required to return money and other property and to pay compensation 
regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties contraventions of the 
general prohibition.
As set out above Options was aware, or ought to have been aware:
oMr Wright featured on the FSAs list of alerts about unauthorised individuals 
and businesses.
oIt had not been privy to CL&Ps company accounts.
oCL&P was offering cash incentives to consumers and therefore acting 
completely against all rules.
The investment did not proceed until these things were known or ought to have been 
known to Options and so it was  or should have been  open to it to decline the 
investments.
So, I am satisfied s27 FSMA offers a further and alternative basis on which it would be fair 
and reasonable to conclude Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. I have therefore gone on to 
consider the question of fair compensation.
Is it fair to ask Options to compensate Mr B?
In deciding whether Options is responsible for any losses that Mr B has suffered on his Store 
First and GAS Verdant investments, I need to look at what would have happened if Options 
had done what it should have done i.e. had not accepted Mr B SIPP application in the first 
place. When considering this I have taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary judgment in Adams ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgment deals with 
restitution/compensation.
Im required to make the decision I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. And I do not consider the fact that Mr B signed the indemnity 
means that he shouldnt be compensated if it is fair and reasonable to do so. In deciding 
whether Options is responsible for any losses that Mr B has suffered on the investments in 
his SIPP I need to look at what would have happened if Options had done what it should 
have done i.e. not accepted Mr Bs application.
Had Options acted fairly and reasonably it should have concluded that it should not accept 
Mr Bs application to open a SIPP. That should have been the end of the matter  it should 
have told Mr B that it could not accept the business. And I am satisfied, if that had 
happened, the arrangement for Mr B would not have come about in the first place, and the 
loss he suffered could have been avoided.
The financial loss has flowed from Mr B transferring out of his existing pension and into a 
SIPP. For the reasons I set out below I am satisfied that, had the SIPP application not been 
accepted, the loss would not have been suffered. I would reach a similar conclusion if 
Options had terminated the transaction at a later stage once it was in possession of certain 
facts that meant there was a significant chance Mr B could suffer financial detriment.
Had Options explained to Mr B why it would not accept the application from CL&P or was 
terminating the transaction, I find it very unlikely that he would have tried to find another 
SIPP operator to accept the business.
So, Im satisfied that Mr B would not have continued with the SIPP, had it not been for 
Options failings, and would have remained in his existing scheme. And, whilst I accept that 
CL&P is responsible for initiating the course of action that has led to his loss, I consider that 
Options failed unreasonably to put a stop to that course of action when it had the opportunity 
and obligation to do so. 
I have considered paragraph 154 of the Adams v Options High Court judgment, which says:
The investment here was acknowledged by the claimant to be high risk 
and/or speculative. He accepted responsibility for evaluating that risk and for 
deciding to proceed in knowledge of the risk. A duty to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in the best interests of the client, who is to take responsibility for 
his own decisions, cannot be construed in my judgment as meaning that the 
terms of the contract should be overlooked, that the client is not to be treated 
as able to reach and take responsibility for his own decisions and that his 
instructions are not to be followed.
For all the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Bs actions 
mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of Options failings. I do not say Options 
should not have accepted the application because the investment was high risk. I 
acknowledge Mr B was warned of the high risk and declared he understood that warning.
But, as I set out above, Options did not share significant warning signs with him so that he 
could make an informed decision about whether to proceed or not. In any event, Options 
should not have asked him to sign the indemnity at all as the application should never have 
been accepted or alternatively the transaction should have been terminated at a much 
earlier stage in the process.Furthermore, as set out above, I am satisfied there is a legal basis on which Mr B is entitled 
to compensation, by virtue of s27 FSMA.
So, I am satisfied in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, that it is fair and 
reasonable to conclude that Options should compensate Mr B for the loss he has suffered. I 
am not asking Options to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. 
I am satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That other 
parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which I am not able 
to determine. However, that fact should not impact on Mr Bs right to fair compensation from 
Options for the full amount of his loss.
Response to submissions following my provisional decision
I will now address some of Options further submissions which were given in response to my 
provisional decision. However, it should be noted that I consider nearly all of what Options 
has said has been addressed in my provisional decision which now forms part of my final 
decision. Ive set this all out above. So, if I do not address a point Options has made in its 
further submissions this is because I think it has already been answered in what Ive set out 
above. For completeness, I note the following:
I have properly considered the duties as suggested by the Adams case as well as 
relevant case law and the Principles. So, I do not agree with Options that I have not 
done so. Similarly, I dont consider I have improperly used the FCAs Principles. I 
have provided a full account of why I consider why they apply; which ones in 
particular apply; and how they apply in Mr Bs particular case. 
In terms of Mr B being responsible for his own losses and the use of an unregulated 
introducer, I do not think this argument is plausible. And Ive said why above.
I agree with Options that the mere underperformance of an investment does not 
create a wrong or liability. But I have explained, in detail, why I think Options should 
be held liable for the losses suffered by Mr B. 
I do not agree that I have failed to correctly apply s27 and s28 of FSMA. I have 
explained why s27 applies and why s28 does not offer Options relief in this case.
Options has argued that Mr B would have invested regardless of its involvement. But 
Im not persuaded by this. As I said above, before accepting introductions from 
CL&P, Options should have carried out appropriate due diligence of the introducer it 
intended to accept business from. However, on all the evidence, this was only done 
after it had started to do business with CL&P and after it had accepted Mr Bs 
application. I dont think there is any persuasive evidence that Mr B would have gone 
ahead with the transfer if Options had refused his application and explained why this 
was the case.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr B to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Options failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Mr Bs SIPP 
application from CL&P or for not terminating the transaction before completion. In light of the 
above, Options should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position to the 
position Mr B would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pension. In summary, 
Options should: 
1. Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Store First and GAS Verdant investments if possible.3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Bs pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr B direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 to Mr B for the distress and inconvenience the avoidable problems with his 
pension will have caused him. I know Options has disagreed with this payment but I 
consider the difficulties with a pension are naturally very worrying especially when all 
or most of the value seems to have been lost. I think under these conditions Mr B 
would have suffered distress and inconvenience, so I think the payment of £500 for 
this issue is fair and reasonable.
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Options should work out the likely value of Mr Bs pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring to the SIPP.
Options should ask Mr B's former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had he not transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the date of 
this decision and this will show the loss Mr B has suffered. The Store First and GAS Verdant 
investments should be assumed to have no value. Account should however be taken of any 
cash back payment that might have been paid out to Mr B.
2. Take ownership of the Store First and GAS Verdant investments
I understand Options has been able to take ownership of the Store First, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. It should do that here, if possible. It should also do this with 
the GAS Verdant case if this is possible. If Options is unable to take ownership of the Store 
First and/or GAS Verdant investments these should remain in the SIPP. I think that is fair 
because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable value in the future.
If Mr B has the option of returning the Store First investment to the freeholder for nil 
consideration in this case, he should do so. If any of the investments remain in the SIPP and 
Mr B decides not to transfer it to the freeholder where he has the option to do so, he should 
be aware that he will be liable for all future costs associated with the investment such as the 
ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any other charges. He should also be 
aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further complaint about these costs.
However, if any of the investments cannot be returned to the freeholder for nil consideration, 
and/ or Options does not take ownership of one or both of the investments, the SIPP will 
need to remain open. If this is the case, then Options will need to cover any fees until the 
SIPP can be closed.
3. Pay compensation to Mr B for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr B has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So, if possible the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
Payment into the pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
This may mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to 
notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr B could claim. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr B may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If this is 
so, compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr B direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr B should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance 
would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr B would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance 
should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
My final decision
Determination and Money Award: I require that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP pay 
Mr B compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000 plus any interest 
payable. £150,000, is the maximum sum that Im able to award in Mr Bs complaint. But Ill 
also make a recommendation below in the event that the compensation is to exceed this 
sum, although I cant require that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP pays this. 
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Options UK 
Personal Pensions LLP receives notification of Mr Bs acceptance of my final decision. 
Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 
28 days.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP pays Mr B the balance. I 
further recommend interest be added to this balance at the rate of 8% a year simple for any 
time, in excess of 28 days, that it takes Options to pay Mr B from the date it receives 
notification of his acceptance of the decision, as set out above. 
If Mr B accepts my final determination when made, the money award and the requirements 
of that decision will be binding on Options UK Personal Pensions LLP. My recommendation 
wont be binding on Options UK Personal Pensions LLP. Further, its unlikely that Mr B will 
be able to accept my determination and go to court to ask for the balance of the 
compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr B may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision I make.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman