DRN-4301881
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited handled his claim on his taxi 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr C had a taxi insurance policy with Haven for a car he uses for his job as a taxi driver. In 
April 2023 a third party vehicle backed into his car while it was parked up at a petrol station. 
He contacted Haven to let them know of the incident and it contacted the third partys 
insurer. It also attempted to obtain the CCTV footage from the petrol station. 
To begin with Mr C said he wasnt able to make a claim as he couldnt afford the excess. 
However Haven contacted the vehicle owner and they agreed to cover the excess in the 
circumstances so a claim was registered and the car was taken in for repairs.
However Haven were unable to get confirmation of the incident from the third party insurer. 
And by the time they got hold of the garage, the CCTV footage had been deleted. It said 
once the repairs were complete it could attempt to pursue the third party through the courts 
as at that stage it would have an outlay to recover. 
Mr C was unhappy with this. He said the claim was taking too long to progress and it was 
causing him to get into debt due to the fact he was unable to work. He said he was going to 
be made homeless as hed got into rent arrears. And the situation was causing him a huge 
amount of distress.
Haven didnt uphold his complaint as it said it had done all it could to progress the claim. It 
also said the policy doesnt cover for loss of earnings, however if its able to pursue the third 
party for its outlay then Mr C could look to claim this back from the third party.Mr C was 
unhappy with this response and brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as she thought Haven had been 
proactive in progressing the claim and any delays hadnt been because of it. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr C is in a really difficult position. And I was really sorry to hear about the issues 
he is facing and the understandable distress it has caused. 
In this decision, I am looking at the actions Haven has taken. That means I need to 
determine whether it got anything wrong or caused any delays that could have been 
avoided. And I can only ask it to take action where I find it has.
When a claim is made due to an accident involving a third party, an insurer will need to 
determine what happened and who was at fault. This will usually involve obtaining evidence 
of the event and contacting the third partys insurer to get their account.
I can see when Mr C notified Haven of the accident, it did both of these things almost 
immediately. And that it has continuously chased both the garage and the third party insurer 
since that time. So I think its done all it could to progress the claim.
I note its taken some time for the car to be repaired. However this is because Mr C said he 
wasnt able to make a claim to begin with due to the excess on the policy. While this is 
understandable, this did mean matters were stalled during this time. 
Without an acceptance of liability from the third party, Haven still had to charge the excess. 
However after listening to Mr C explain his circumstances, it attempted to move the claim 
forward by seeking another way of covering the excess  by contacting the vehicle owner. 
This was successful and the repairs could then commence. And I think that was a 
reasonable step for Haven to take in the circumstances. 
Based on this, I think Haven has done all it could to move Mr Cs claim forward promptly. 
And while there have been some delays, these arent due to Havens actions. So Im not 
able to hold Haven responsible.
Further, I can see that cover for loss of earnings isnt included in the policy. So while I 
appreciate the strain the claim is putting on Mr Cs financial position, this isnt something 
Haven are able to assist with. If it is able to pursue its outlay from the third party then Mr C 
may be able to claim these losses through them at that time.  
So based on this, Im not able to uphold this complaint or ask Haven to do anything 
differently. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, and I want to be clear 
that by not upholding his complaint I in no way wish to diminish the difficulty of the situation 
hes in. But I only have the power to direct Haven to take action where I find its got 
something wrong and Ive not found that here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman