DRN-3012032
The complaint
Mrs C says Brown Shipley & Co Limited (BSCL) is responsible for an additional/higher rate
tax liability that arose from its recommendation to surrender two Investment Bonds (IBs) in 
the 2017/2018 tax year. She seeks compensation for the tax liability incurred, for costs 
incurred and for the distress and inconvenience the matter has caused her. 
What happened
 I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in this complaint on 21 July 2021. In the main, I said 
the following in the PD, in terms of background and provisional findings:
The IBs were inherited by Mrs C around 2015. They (a total of four IBs) were held in a 
Discounted Gift Trust (DGT) and BSCL has been engaged in advising and assisting her in
liquidating them tax efficiently since the 2015/2016 tax year. The plan was to do so over a
number of tax years, so there were advised surrenders in the 2016/2017 tax year and then
the same in the 2017/2018 tax year  and the same was planned to continue in tax years
thereafter. None of this background is in dispute.
BSCL partially concedes the complaint. A summary of its position is as follows:
The planning it conducted in July 2017 was relatively early in the 2017/2018 tax year, 
so Mrs Cs income for the rest of that year was not known, with certainty, and had to 
be anticipated/projected. Her income for the year (both known and projected) was the 
basis upon which her adviser could plan how much of the IBs segments could be 
surrendered tax efficiently.
Her income for the year turned out to be around £10,000 more than it could have 
reasonably anticipated, based on information available to the adviser at the time of 
advice. It accepts that it  may have been beneficial to delay making the 
encashments until later in the year when [Mrs Cs] actual income position was clearer 
 but it asserts that it acted in good faith by recommending the relevant surrenders 
at the time of advice.
Even though it could not reasonably have anticipated the £10,000 extra income it 
accepts that it had enough information at the time of advice to make better and more 
accurate assumptions about what her income for the year would be. It has calculated 
that this caused her additional income tax of £8,423.12 which it is prepared to pay 
her as compensation. It notes that it previously offered her, as a potential settlement, 
a waiver of two years worth of future fees (worth around £12,000) but she declined 
the offer.
Mrs Cs claim of distress and inconvenience arises mainly from an HMRC 
investigation she was subjected to. BSCL is not responsible for that. Instead, the 
investigation appears to have been caused by her accountants omission of one of 
the two relevant chargeable events certificates (CEC), for the gains realised in the 
two surrendered bonds, from the 2017/2018 tax returns he filed for her  he realised 
his mistake subsequently, revised the 2017/2018 tax returns and submitted the 
omitted CEC with the 2018/2019 tax returns, all of which appears to have prompted 
an enquiry and the investigation by HMRC.
The issue in dispute is somewhat isolated. BSCL concedes that its adviser could and 
should have conducted more accurate planning (and calculation) with regards to Mrs Cs 
estimated income for the 2017/2018 tax year, and that she did not do so. I agree. The 
investigator has identified that information about a total of around £20,000 of Mrs Cs 
estimated income was available to, but was wrongly overlooked by, the adviser. I agree with 
this too. I also consider that this was pivotal to the advisers ultimate error in applying the 
wrong planning to how and, how much of, the IBs should be liquidated.
Merit in Mrs Cs case has essentially been established, and it does not appear to be in 
dispute. The subject in dispute is the size of redress. I agree with the investigators view 
about a lack of grounds to award costs to Mrs C. It is indeed fair to say that there is 
sufficient, and sufficiently clear, documentary evidence in this case to determine the source 
and cause of the additional tax liability she incurred. I am not persuaded that the 
professional service she enlisted  how ever capable and helpful that service has been  
was necessary. Costs awards are not routinely made in this service and I have not seen 
anything in the present case to justify a departure from that approach.
I agree with BSCL and the investigator that BSCL cannot reasonably be held responsible for 
the HMRC investigation and the distress and inconvenience that caused Mrs C. I share the 
reasons they have given in this respect. I also agree with the investigators award of £200, to 
Mrs C, to address the trouble and upset caused to her by the advisers erroneous planning. 
However, in terms of redress for the tax liability issue, I agree with Mrs C and her 
submissions.
There is fact find evidence from the time of advice with information in support of Mrs Cs 
£35,640 estimated income for the year, and the same applies to information from the 
previous years planning report. It is not clear why, in July 2017, the adviser adopted an 
erroneous approach that stood in conflict with this information, but she did, and the result 
was the tax liability Mrs C (with input from her accountant) has presented in her 
submissions. By this, and in straightforward terms, I mean as follows:
Mrs Cs income was underestimated by around half, so the adviser concluded there 
was enough headroom above her total income to fit the estimated gains from the IB 
liquidations she recommended; and to do so without jeopardising Mrs Cs personal 
allowance and without pushing her tax liability into the higher/40% tax band.
Mrs Cs personal allowance should have been intact  as the adviser undertook to
achieve. If that had happened, she would have been entitled to the full effect of the 
£11,500 personal allowance amount. This, as she has submitted, means the first 
£11,500 of her total income for 2017/2018 would have been discounted for income 
tax purposes.
Upon applying the above discount to the income estimate of £35,640, the remainder 
would have been £24,140. This would have been subjected to the 20% tax band, 
given that this tax band catered for taxable income up to £33,500 and £24,140 is less 
than that.
The above shows that application of 40% tax was not inevitable. In isolation, Mrs Cs 
estimated 2017/2018 income would have been subjected only to 20% tax (after the 
personal allowance discount).
With the correct, £35,640, income estimation there would still have been some 
headroom between the taxable income of £24,140 and the threshold of £33,500, 
before breaching the higher 40% tax band, but not enough for the estimated gains 
arising from the liquidations that BSCL recommended. The estimated gains from the 
recommendation were around £77,000, which meant Mrs Cs total gross income 
would be pushed beyond £100,000 and she would incur reductions in her personal allowance (and therefore more tax liability); and which also meant a significant part of 
her total taxable income would be pushed beyond £33,500 and into the higher 40% 
tax band. Both effects were what BSCL was responsible for avoiding in its advice; 
and both were the result for Mrs C, in reality, because of BSCLs error in planning 
(that is, its use of the wrong estimated income amount).
As such, both the loss of Mrs Cs personal allowance and the 40% tax she incurred 
were caused directly by BSCLs erroneous advice and she is correct in asserting a 
right to compensation on this basis.
Available documentary evidence suggests that the total additional tax she faced 
because of BSCLs wrongdoing was £18,037.28. My provisional conclusion is that 
BSCL should compensate her in this amount, in addition to paying her £200 for the 
trouble and upset the matter has caused her.
Mrs C agreed with the PD but BSCL did not. It initially queried evidence of the additional tax 
liability claimed by Mrs C and this was shared by the investigator. It then submitted its 
comments on the PD, which mainly said:
The PD was wrong to advice that the encashment could have been left until the end 
of the tax year. Had it done this, it would not have been feasible for it to advise Mrs C 
so close to the end of the tax year. The PDs finding in this respect would set a 
concerning precedent and would leave it vulnerable. Furthermore, it should be noted 
that Mrs C could have decided, by herself, to defer the encashment until the end of 
the tax year but instead she chose to proceed when she did.
BSCL are not tax advisers. Mrs C was in receipt of tax advice separately from her 
accountant. BSCLs suitability report referred her to take tax advice from an 
accountant, so she could have engaged with her accountant in order to clarify the tax 
implications of its advice. 
Its adviser acted in good faith in fact finding and in determining/estimating Mrs Cs 
income and there is evidence that the actual total income that resulted later in the 
year included an additional £10,000 that the adviser could not reasonably have 
foreseen or estimated. 
Whilst BSCL accepts responsibility for some of the additional tax liability it is not 
reasonable to find it responsible for all the liability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered Mrs Cs case, the evidence within it and the comments made by BSCL 
in response to the PD, I have not been persuaded to depart from the findings and conclusion 
in the PD. I uphold Mrs Cs complaint, I retain the PDs findings and conclusion and I 
incorporate them into this decision.
I address BSCLs comments as follows:
BSCL says the PD gave advice on the timing that should have applied to the 
liquidation of the IB. The relevant, and complete, paragraph from the PD that it 
referred to is quoted below.
I do not consider it a credible excuse to suggest that the adviser faced difficulties in 
estimating the full 2017/2018 years income so early in the year (in July 2017), 
because  first, evidence shows that it is the advisers overlooking or omission of 
available income related information that caused the problem, not so much a matter of estimating unknown income; and second, I have not seen evidence of pressure to 
execute the liquidation at the time of the planning advice and it appears that the 
adviser could have recommended a delay to the liquidation if she considered 
information about actual and/or estimated income to be unreliable at the time, or if 
she considered that an update on Mrs Cs income later in the year should be 
considered before reviewing and executing the liquidation advice. [my emphasis]
It is clear from the above that, contrary to BSCLs comment, the PD did not offer 
advice on the timing of the liquidation. The section emphasised above made a 
reasonable observation that there was, and is, no evidence that the liquidation was 
time pressured and that if the adviser did not consider income related information to 
be reliable she could have recommended a delay to the liquidation. In addition, the 
PD made no mention of waiting until the end of the tax year. No precedent was 
intended or set by the afore quoted paragraph from the PD.
BSCLs comment in the above respect(s) is inaccurate. It was engaged in advising 
Mrs C and she was entitled to follow its advice, so its suggestion that she could have 
decided, independently, on when to execute the liquidation is also without merit. It 
was not unreasonable for her to follow professional advice from BSCL that she had 
paid for and that she was entitled to expect would be suitable for her objective.
BSCLs reference to Mrs C having an accountant for tax advice is irrelevant to the 
complaint. I said the following in the PD  
The advisers planning report is expressly clear about the objectives  which, within 
the report, the adviser undertook to deliver and which she said her recommendation 
will deliver  to liquidate the IBs in a tax efficient manner, in a manner that ensured 
Mrs Cs personal allowance remained intact and in a manner that ensured she did 
not become subject to the higher 40% tax band.
BSCLs adviser was fully aware that Mrs Cs objective was to liquidate the IBs tax 
efficiently and she (the adviser) expressly undertook to deliver this objective, as 
summarised in the quote above. In the other quotes presented in the background 
section above, the PD referred to facts which show that the problem had nothing to 
do with Mrs C expecting or requiring tax advice from BSCL and everything to do with 
BSCLs adviser applying an avoidable error to her liquidation calculations and 
recommendation  an avoidable error highlighted in the findings of one of our 
investigators who initially addressed the complaint and one that BSCL appeared to 
concede.
The £10,000 mentioned by BSCL is also irrelevant. The PD, as quoted above, set out 
clearly how the advisers calculation error was committed. In brief, she overlooked 
income information, for Mrs C, that had been recorded in and was available from fact 
find documentation. This showed a total amount of income of around £20,000 that 
appears to have been distinct from the £10,000 BSCL has mentioned, that should 
have been included in the advisers income estimation and which would then have 
influenced her planning for and recommendation of the liquidation. Due to her 
omission of this information, both her planning and recommendation were wrong.
I am satisfied with the balance of evidence showing that BSCL and the error it 
committed resulted in its failure to discharge the task of tax efficient liquidation of the 
IB (for Mrs C) that it undertook and I am satisfied with the balance of evidence 
showing it is wholly responsible for the additional tax liability incurred by Mrs C as a 
direct result of its erroneous calculation, planning and recommendation.Putting things right
The concluding finding in the PD, which I presently retain, was  
Available documentary evidence suggests that the total additional tax [Mrs C] faced 
because of BSCLs wrongdoing was £18,037.28. My provisional conclusion is that BSCL 
should compensate her in this amount, in addition to paying her £200 for the trouble and 
upset the matter has caused her.
As I said earlier above, the investigator helped to share, with BSCL, evidence of the total 
additional tax incurred by Mrs C as a direct result of BSCLs wrongdoing. The figure of 
£18,037.28 is confirmed in said evidence and this is the full amount that BSCL must pay  
Mrs C as compensation for the tax liability she incurred as a result of following BSCLs 
inaccurate recommendation. BSCL must pay Mrs C interest on this full amount, at the rate of 
8% simple per year from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, if it fails to pay 
her this compensation within 28 days of being informed that she has accepted this decision. 
BSCL must also pay Mrs C £200 for the trouble and upset that the complaint matter has 
caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and I order Brown Shipley & Co 
Limited to pay her compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman