DRN-2798075
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled her mortgage account when the 
original mortgage term expired, including the interest applied  which she thinks was higher 
than it shouldve been.  
What happened
Mrs C took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays in 2007. She borrowed £320,000 and 
the term of the mortgage was ten years. The interest rate was a lifetime tracker, meaning it 
would be on the same basis for the duration of the mortgage, which tracked at 0.18% above 
the Barclays base rate.
In 2008 Mrs C borrowed a further £70,000 from Barclays. This was again on an interest only 
basis, with the term end coinciding with the original mortgage. The interest rate on this 
portion of the loan was again a lifetime tracker, this time at 0.69% above the Barclays base 
rate.
Mrs C has explained that the repayment vehicle for these loans was the sale of investment 
properties. The sale wasnt achieved before the original mortgage term expired in May 2017.
The borrowing was finally repaid in full in September 2019.
Mrs C raised some concerns with Barclays. She was unhappy that after paying what she 
understood to be the outstanding balance, she had needed to make an additional small 
payment to redeem the account in full. She wanted an explanation of what this amount was. 
Mrs C also complained that a payment of £500 taken in respect of the mortgages, after they 
had been redeemed, was not refunded in a timely manner. She also questioned whether the 
interest applied to the mortgages was correct, as she felt it was higher than it ought to have 
been. Mrs C also requested a breakdown of additional fees applied to the mortgage, as she 
didnt know what these were.
Barclays responded to say that it felt the interest applied was correct, the additional payment 
requested at redemption was because there was a shortfall in the main payment made and 
the fee added to the mortgage was in respect of solicitors costs around the redemption. It 
acknowledged that the overpayment had not been dealt with and refunded as well as it 
wouldve liked. As a result, it offered Mrs C £251.75 - £250 for the upset caused and £1.75 
being interest on the overpayment, for the duration of the delay.
Mrs C indicated she was happy with Barclays response in respect of the delay in refunding 
the £500. However, she wasnt happy with its response in relation to some of the other 
concerns raised so she asked our service to consider those parts of her complaint. 
She said that, in addition to her concerns about the interest and fees, she was also unhappy 
with how Barclays had handled her mortgage in general  particularly the way it had pursued 
repayment since the expiry of the original term. Mrs C said shed made significant payments 
to the account during that time, but Barclays had continued to pursue her with little 
sympathy. She also said she was unhappy that it had declined to agree a formal extension, 
which she thought mayve been discriminatory on the basis of her age.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2021, explaining that I intended to uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint in part. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why I 
thought this.
Barclays not agreeing to a term extension
Mrs C says that Barclays made it clear to her that it would not allow an extension to her 
original mortgage term. And she feels this was potentially due to her age. Barclays says 
when this was first requested, its notes indicate it explained that the minimum term extension 
its processes allowed it to provide was five years, and that Mrs C did not want to extend the 
mortgage for that long. Mrs C says she doesnt recall this being discussed.
Ive seen contact notes that indicate when the original mortgage term was expiring, there 
was a conversation around a potential term extension. I cant say for certain what was 
discussed during that conversation, but Im satisfied a conversation around this took place.
Barclays has been consistent in explaining that its policy was for the minimum term 
extension allowable to be five years. And, I do think its likely this was discussed.
It has also provided its lending policy  something that is a matter of its own discretion. To 
summarise, this talks about it not generally lending beyond the age of 70 for affordability 
reasons as this generally coincides with retirement. But the policy does say individual 
applications will still be considered and the final lending decision will be based on a review of 
the individual circumstances  indicating it will agree to lend beyond this age if the lending is 
affordable based on the information in the application. I dont think Barclays approach 
appears unreasonable or meant an application would not be considered. I think this too was 
also likely discussed at the point a term extension was talked about.
Overall, I dont doubt that Barclays made Mrs C aware of the potential issues that might 
affect an application for a term extension. And its possible there was a misunderstanding 
about what this meant for Mrs Cs circumstances. But I dont think, based on the information 
available, that I can reasonably say Barclays refused to consider an application at all. And 
as, ultimately, an application was not made, and Barclays wasnt given the opportunity to 
assess one, I cant reasonably say Barclays unfairly turned this down.
Barclays requests for repayment after the original mortgage term ended
Mrs C has said that she doesnt think Barclays acted fairly in its pursuit of the outstanding 
balance once the original mortgage term expired. But I have to say, based on what Ive seen 
so far, I dont think I can agree.
The original agreement was that the mortgage would be repaid in full in May 2017. This 
didnt happen. So, at that point Mrs C was in breach of the original agreement. I think it was 
reasonable at that point for Barclays to request information about how she intended to repay 
the borrowing.Ive seen contact notes showing there were a number of conversations between Barclays 
and Mrs C over the following couple of years. Mrs C explained to Barclays she intended to 
repay the borrowing from the sale of a different property. And I can see, when it was first told 
a sale had been agreed, Barclays paused recovery action for a year, to allow this sale to 
proceed. I think that was reasonable.
When, after that year had passed, the mortgage still wasnt repaid, I can see Barclays began 
contacting Mrs C again to discuss repayment. It seems at that stage Barclays was informed 
the original sale had fallen through so the property was being marketed again. Mrs C later 
told Barclays that a further sale had been agreed but there were complications as the 
property was let at the time. At that point Barclays said it was unwilling to pause matters 
again unless it had confirmation of the sale going ahead. It appears a sale to a different party 
was then agreed and the mortgage was repaid in September 2019.
While that was ongoing, Barclays sent a number of letters about the account position. But 
having reviewed several of these, I dont think these were unreasonable. I can also see it 
instructed solicitors in April 2019. But again, I dont think that was unreasonable as at that 
stage it had been almost two years since the original mortgage term had ended. I do note 
Mrs C was paying more than just the mortgage interest for some time following the end of 
the original term  seemingly reducing the capital balance by over a thousand pounds per 
month  but given that the mortgage balance outstanding was in excess of £370,000, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Barclays to begin litigation.
Taking everything into account, while I can understand it wouldve been a stressful time for 
Mrs C, particularly given the borrowing was secured on her home, I dont think Barclays 
acted unfairly in terms of its requests for repayment.
I can see some costs relating to the litigation were added to the mortgage balance 
(approximately £140). But as I dont think Barclays was unreasonable to begin this action, 
and the terms and conditions of the mortgage Ive seen say that any such reasonable costs 
were recoverable under the mortgage, I dont think this was unfair.
The interest charged to the mortgage
As Ive explained, the interest rates on the two parts of Mrs Cs mortgage were lifetime 
trackers  which tracked the Barclays base rate at two different margins. Having reviewed 
account statements, I can see that the interest being charged continued to track these rates 
after the original mortgage term had expired and I think the interest rates used by Barclays 
were correct. And I havent seen anything that leads me to think interest had been applied 
incorrectly to Mrs Cs accounts or that she has been overcharged.
I do though understand why Mrs C mayve thought she had been overcharged and why she 
was concerned about this. And that is because I think one of the documents that Barclays 
provided to her included information that was unclear and misleading.
Barclays sent Mrs C a redemption statement on 19 September 2019. This set out the 
outstanding balance on each part of her mortgage  the original mortgage and the further 
advance  as of 1 October 2018. It showed all the payments shed made since 1 October 
2018 and a figure for interest. Given that the statements appeared to cover a one-year 
period, Mrs C has assumed, I think quite reasonably, that this represented the interest 
charged for that year. For the mortgage the interest figure noted was £5,197.77 and for the 
further advance £1,856.26. Mrs C has questioned these as, based on the interest rates 
applicable from October 2018 to September 2019 and the outstanding balances, these 
figures appear to be higher than they should be, if they represented the interest applied that 
year. And I can see this has in fact been the basis of her complaint from the outset.I agree with her that these figures appear to be incorrect for the interest that shouldve been 
charged from 1 October 2018 to redemption. We put this to Barclays and it also agreed 
those figures arent correct for the interest charged in that period. Barclays has said that it 
believes the figures actually represent the interest added to the mortgage from the point the 
original term ended (in May 2017) until the redemption date, as this is what its system would 
generally record where a redemption statement is generated after a mortgage term has 
ended. I think this appears likely. But I accept this isnt clear from the statement. And I can 
understand why it caused so much confusion.
Looking at the other information on the statement and a later summary closing statement, 
sent after the mortgage was paid off, Im satisfied that these misleading interest figures are 
not what Mrs C was actually charged for the period 1 October 2018 to redemption in 
September 2019. To use the other information in the document sent to her on 19 September 
2019 as an illustration of this, the balance listed as brought forward on 1 October 2018 on 
the main mortgage was £310,715.54. The repayments to that account listed throughout the 
year totalled £16,100. Meaning without any interest the amount remaining would be 
£294,615.54. Had £5,197.77 actually been charged as interest the total amount due  what 
then needed to be paid  would be £299,813.31. But it isnt. It is listed as £297,491.10. So 
that indicates the interest actually charged, up to the point of the redemption statement was 
£2,875.56.
And a statement sent after redemption, confirmed that Mrs C had paid just over this in 
respect of the main mortgage  the difference being due to interest added between the 
redemption statement being generated on 19 September 2019 and payment being made.
The information Ive seen also suggests the same in respect of the further advance  that 
the interest actually charged from 1 October 2018 to redemption was in the region of £885 
rather than the figure in the redemption statement. So, while I think the information around 
interest given in the document sent to Mrs C on 19 September 2019 was misleading and 
unclear, Im satisfied she has not in fact been overcharged.
As Ive said however, this misleading information seems to have been at the heart of this 
complaint from the outset. I can see Mrs C has made a number of references to these 
specific figures and the redemption statement Barclays sent. However, despite her being 
clear about this, Barclays told our service it wasnt sure where she had obtained these 
figures  when they in fact came from something it had sent. I think Barclays couldve done a 
better job of understanding and investigating Mrs Cs concerns around this. If it had, a lot of 
the confusion couldve been addressed much sooner. And I dont doubt this was upsetting 
for Mrs C  as I imagine it felt as if she was being ignored.
So, in light of the fact I think the redemption statement Barclays sent was misleading and 
that I think it couldve done a lot more to explain this when challenged, I think itd be 
reasonable for Barclays to make a payment to Mrs C in respect of the upset caused by this 
poor service. I think a payment of £200 would be a fair way to address this. This is in 
addition to the redress previously agreed in respect of the delay in returning an overpayment 
 which I have not considered further as Mrs C indicated she was satisfied with the 
resolution to that point.
responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Barclays said it was happy to agree to my suggestions.Mrs C said she agreed with me that a lot of this frustration couldve been avoided if Barclays 
had considered her concerns fully when she first raised them. She confirmed that she also 
accepted my provisional decision as she was keen to bring matters to a close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party disagreed or had anything further to add, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. So, for the same reasons given in those findings, and 
summarised above, I think this complaint should be upheld in part and that Barclays should 
make a payment to Mrs C for the upset caused. This is in addition to redress agreed 
previously in relation to a separate matter.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in part. To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
Mrs C £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman