DRN-1706242
The complaint
Miss H complains about Collingwood Insurance Company Ltds decision to refuse to cover 
her in respect of a claim and then cancel her motor insurance policy.
Miss H is represented in her complaint by her mother, but for ease Ive referred to Miss H 
only. 
What happened
In June 2019, Miss H was involved in an incident in a car park. She hit another car with hers. 
Miss H thought the damage to the other car was minimal so didnt stop and didnt report the 
incident to her insurer. 
A witness to the incident told the driver of the other car what theyd seen. The other driver 
reported the matter to their own insurer, who notified Collingwood that they intended to 
recover the costs of the claim.
In October 2019, Collingwood got in touch with Miss H about the claim theyd received. They 
asked Miss H to provide details of the person supervising her on the day in question, as she 
had a learner driver policy. Miss H said it was her friend, Miss C, who had been supervising 
her. But when Collingwood asked for Miss C to get in touch with them to talk about the claim, 
a different friend, Miss M, called them.
Because of this, Collingwood decided to cancel Miss Hs policy and said they werent going 
to cover her for the claim from the other driver.  
Miss H complained to Collingwood about their decision to cancel her policy and to ask her to 
pay for the other drivers claim. At this point, she told Collingwood she had asked Miss M to 
say shed been supervising her because Miss C had refused to cooperate and had blocked 
Miss H from contacting her. Because of this, Collingwood decided it wouldnt pursue Miss H 
for the amount of the other drivers claim. But it maintained the decision not to cover her and 
cancellation of the policy was correct. 
Miss H referred her complaint to our service because she was unhappy that the cancellation 
might affect future insurance premiums. 
Our Investigator considered Miss Hs complaint. He said he didnt think Collingwood had 
acted inappropriately by cancelling Miss Hs policy.
Miss H didnt accept our Investigators assessment. She said in response that she accepted 
that shed given them false information about who was supervising her that day, but she 
didnt realise at the time that Miss C hadnt had her licence long enough to be supervising 
her appropriately. So she wanted the complaint to be reconsidered.
As Miss H didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Hs policy was one designed specifically for learner drivers. Under the terms of the 
policy she needed to be supervised by someone while driving whod held their own licence 
for at least three years. And if she wasnt properly supervised, the policy says she wont be 
covered. Miss C, who had been supervising Miss H that day, had only had her own licence 
for about 18 months at the time of the incident. Both parties agree that Miss H wasnt being 
adequately supervised.
Miss H said she did ask Miss C whether she had a full driving licence before driving under 
her supervision. But she didnt ask her to confirm how long shed had her licence. I 
understand Miss H might not have realised Miss C wasnt an appropriate person to be 
supervising her while driving under the terms of the policy. But I dont think this means 
Collingwood were wrong to refuse to cover her in these circumstances  it was Miss Hs 
responsibility as the policyholder to make sure she adhered to the terms of the policy.
Collingwood have since decided theyre not going to pursue Miss H for the money paid out 
for the claim, but that the initial decision not to cover her will still stand because theyve 
agreed not to pursue her as a gesture of goodwill. In the circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Collingwood to say they wouldnt be covering Miss H for the third partys 
claim  everyone agrees that she wasnt being properly supervised. And as Ive already 
explained, if she wasnt properly supervised the policy didnt cover her. So Collingwood have 
done more than Id ordinarily expect them to by agreeing not to pursue Miss H for the 
amount they paid out.
As Miss H drove the car when she wasnt being properly supervised and then wasnt honest 
with Collingwood about who was supervising her, I dont think Collingwood have done 
anything wrong by choosing to cancel Miss Hs policy. The terms of the policy say 
Collingwood can do this if the policyholder provides false information. 
Miss H has told us she didnt realise the consequences of not giving the right information to 
Collingwood and that shes had a difficult time since this incident took place. Im sorry to 
hear about Miss Hs circumstances  Im sure this matter has been worrying for her at an 
already stressful time. However, these arent reasons I can fairly say Collingwood shouldnt 
have cancelled Miss Hs policy. So Im not going to order them to remove the cancellation 
from their records.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman