DRN-3821127
The complaint and background
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc ought to have done more to protect him from 
falling victim to what he claims was an investment scam.  
In short, Mr Bs complaint concerns several online debit card transactions to FXVC and 
PatronFX which took place between late 2020 and early 2021.
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold the complaint. Given Mr B authorised the payments in 
question and went on to receive money back from both firms, the bank didnt treat what 
happened as a valid fraud claim. It also said he was out of time to raise a chargeback claim 
as he contacted Bank of Scotland more than 120 days from the date of the transactions, the 
applicable timeframe it has to raise a claim. Mr B then brought the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed the available evidence and wasnt satisfied FXVC or 
PatronFX were operating a scam at the time Mr B made the payments  so they didnt 
agree Bank of Scotland ought to be liable for his loss. They also concluded that a 
chargeback claim was out of time. Mr B does not accept this; he maintains that Bank of 
Scotland failed in its duty to have prevented the payments. Because Mr B is not in 
agreement, the matter has been escalated to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on his response to our investigators provisional assessment, I take it that Mr B 
accepts that any chargeback claim for these payments would be invalid in light of being 
raised outside of the operable timescales. I have therefore focused my decision on whats 
left in dispute. Nonetheless, for completeness, I will say that I agree with our investigator that 
a chargeback claim would not meet the requisite criteria to be successful, given the length of 
time between the date of the transactions and when they were reported to Bank of Scotland. 
Relevant considerations
The applicable legislation, plus various principles of good practice, make it clear that banks 
do have a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and 
scams. Also, as a firm regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), Bank of Scotland 
has a regulatory obligation to counter the risk that its accounts might be used to further 
financial crime. 
Still, this must be balanced with Bank of Scotlands other duties. Theres a provision that 
delaying a payment instruction could lead to a breach of the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), which set requirements for the timing of payments such as the ones that Mr B 
made. Whats more, while the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not necessarily 
constitute unauthorised investment advice, in circumstances such as these, there is a 
general prohibition that Bank of Scotland should not be providing investment advice 
pertaining to where a consumer should choose to invest (or not invest) their money. 
In other words, its possible that Bank of Scotland could have warned Mr B about the 
dangers of falling victim to investment fraudsters, without providing him investment advice. 
But these obligations should only reasonably have been engaged under the PSRs if there 
were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee (i.e. FXVC or PatronFX) were fraudulent; 
meaning that Bank of Scotland could have delayed the payments while concerns were duly 
discussed with Mr B. Hence, why I would need to be satisfied that FXVC and/or PatronFX 
were operating scams when these payments were made in order to expect Bank of Scotland 
to have done anything further here. 
When determining this, Ive borne in mind that certain high-risk investment traders (such as 
CFD merchants) may use sales methods, or communication styles that can be seen to be 
unfair. Especially, when considering the financial losses incurred because of a disappointing 
return on an investment thats been promoted. Even so, not all complaints to us involving 
CFD merchants are in fact a scam. While the ways and means of these businesses can be 
viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean they amount to 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud. 
The FCA and other powers regard the use of industry intelligence as critical to detecting and 
preventing investment fraud. Accordingly, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
depended on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And Ive relied on the FCAs own warning list, which is in place to share alerts 
and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent. 
Finteractive Limited (trading as FXVC)
As far as Im reasonably aware, these watchlists Ive highlighted report no adverse 
information about FXVC at the time Mr B authorised these payments. I appreciate an FCA 
supervisory notice was later published in April 2021, stating that the regulator had stopped 
FXVC from offering CFDs to UK investors due to its business practices and misleading 
promotional materials. But this notice does not state that FXVC was operating a scam, and I 
note that the broker has since referred the supervisory notice to the Upper Tribunal, which 
would be a highly unlikely course of action to be taken by a scammer.
While I understand that the risks of the investment may not have been presented 
appropriately in FXVCs promotional materials given it has since been established that 
they were misleading that does not necessarily mean it was a fraudulent entity that had 
set out to dishonestly appropriate Mr Bs funds through deception.
At the material time, FXVC was also regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange 
Commission (CySEC). So, even if there was any reason for Bank of Scotland to have 
prevented these payments (which I do not consider there was), Im not persuaded that any 
questioning or discussion about the purpose of the payments would have likely resulted in 
Mr B concluding that it was a scam, as he would simply have found that they were an 
offshore broker that was regulated in another jurisdiction.
Forex TB Ltd (trading as PatronFX)
Both the IOSCO and FCA watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe 
that there were no such warnings about PatronFX at the time these payments were made in 
2020 and 2021. I have noted that PatronFX was regulated by CySEC at the time of Mr Bs payments, with 
passporting rights through the FCA  which meant it could offer services to UK customers. 
Suffice to say, illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the intention of scamming consumers 
are highly unlikely to submit themselves to regulatory oversight.
Im aware the FCA removed these passporting rights in April 2021, but this was after Mr B 
had sent all of his payments. Consequently, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to compel me 
to believe that PatronFX was a scam company. 
My conclusions are reinforced by the fact that Mr B received considerable credits back from 
both firms  which without question conflicts with typical fraudulent behaviour that normally 
seeks to extract and retain as much money as possible. Such repayments are more akin to 
investment schemes that have paid out based on pervasive market conditions. 
So, overall, Im not convinced FXVC and PatronFX were the perpetrators of investment fraud 
 and this has been reinforced by authoritative sources covering cross-industry forums and 
various jurisdictions. 
As Ive concluded that the payments Mr B made to these firms were not the proceeds of 
fraud, Bank of Scotlands duty to intervene wasnt triggered. There was the inevitable risk of 
Mr Bs investments returning a loss, based on market performance. However, as Ive 
explained, Bank of Scotland isnt required to protect its consumers from the risk of financial 
loss due to investment advice/choices, or bad bargains. 
Therefore, Bank of Scotland did not act unfairly by not undertaking counter measures. To 
that end, I cannot safely hold it liable for these payments, or Mr Bs loss that ensued. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman