DRN-2184747
The complaint
Miss B has complained about a number of loans she took from Western Circle Limited 
trading as Cashfloat. Miss B says that Cashfloat lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020 that I summarise below.
Miss B was given 10 loans by Cashfloat between February 2016 and July 2017. The loans 
were all repayable in instalments of between one to three months. The principal sum 
borrowed varied from £200 to £650.
A summary of Miss B's borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date TakenDate 
Repaid Instalments Amount
1 19/02/2016 29/03/2016 2 £250.00
2 11/04/2016 26/04/2016 1 £200.00
3 24/05/2016 24/06/2016 1 £200.00
4 01/07/2016 26/07/2016 1 £200.00
5 04/08/2016 30/09/2016 2 £250.00
6 01/10/2016 28/11/2016 2 £400.00
7 19/01/2017 28/02/2017 1 £200.00
8 28/02/2017 28/04/2017 2 £400.00
9 01/05/2017 28/07/2017 3 £600.00
10 30/07/2017 Outstanding 3 £650.00
When Miss B first complained to Cashfloat, the lender didnt agree to uphold the complaint, 
but it did offer to pay her £50 as a gesture of goodwill and remove the interest associated 
with loan 10. Miss B didnt accept this offer and brought her complaint to this service.
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be partly upheld. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Cashfloat needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that it was important for Cashfloat to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay 
her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. So even if the loan payments were apparently affordable on this basis, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that she could sustainably make her repayments. This is because the 
relevant regulations define sustainable as the customer being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income, without experiencing undue difficulties or having to borrow further. And it 
follows that a lender should fairly and reasonably realise that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably, if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Cashfloat carried out some checks before lending to Miss B. It asked her for details of her 
income and normal monthly expenditure and carried out some credit checks. From what Id 
seen, I didnt think there was anything that should reasonably have given Cashfloat 
additional cause for concerns during the initial stages of its lending to Miss B.
Our adjudicator had thought that by loan 4, Cashfloat should have been concerned Miss B 
was showing signs that she was struggling to repay her loans. And so it shouldnt have lent 
any further. But I didnt think there was sufficient evidence of this for me to fairly say that by 
loan 4, Cashfloat should reasonably have been aware that Miss B was having difficulty 
repaying her loans. Or that it should have reasonably concluded at that point that she was 
having difficulty managing her finances, and so her application for loan 4 should be declined.
I thought in the circumstances, the checks Cashfloat did before agreeing to the first four 
loans were reasonable and proportionate  taking into account the amounts it was lending to 
Miss B, in comparison to her declared income, what shed told Cashfloat about her 
circumstances and the number of loans agreed. I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Cashfloat to ask Miss B for the amount of information that would be needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans.
However I didnt think Cashfloat should have agreed to loan 5. Cashfloat had told us that 
after the first five loans, it spoke to Miss B and confirmed her income and expenditure in 
order to assess the affordability of the loan. And that it did this again before agreeing to the 
next three loans.
But I didnt think, in the circumstances of this case, that this additional check by Cashfloat 
went quite far enough. I thought that by the time Miss B made her fifth consecutive 
application for a short-term loan, the lender should reasonably have realised that it couldnt 
rely on the financial information that she was providing and it should have taken steps to 
independently verify Miss Bs financial circumstances  for example by requesting bank 
statements.
I reviewed the bank statements that Miss B had provided to this service. If Cashfloat had 
carried out more thorough checks when Miss B applied for loan 5, I thought it would have 
discovered that she was borrowing from several other short-term lenders and paying a 
significant amount every month to repay these other loans. I thought this would reasonably 
have alerted Cashfloat that Miss B was having difficulty managing her finances and that she 
was most likely borrowing to repay other lending  and would also most likely need to borrow 
elsewhere to repay her loans from Cashfloat. I thought the lender ought reasonably to have 
realised that it was unlikely that Miss B wouldve been able to sustainably repay loan 5  or 
any subsequent lending. So I didnt think Cashfloat should have agreed to provide loan 5.
By loan 6, Miss B had established a pattern of repeatedly borrowing, repaying and returning 
to borrow again from Cashfloat. She had taken 6 loans in around nine months. She also 
increased the amount she wanted to borrow when she applied for her sixth loan. I thought it 
should have been clear to Cashfloat that by then, Miss B was no longer borrowing to meet a 
short-term, emergency need, but that she was most likely borrowing to keep up with her 
ongoing financial commitments.
Cashfloat said that according to the credit reference agency, Miss Bs total indebtedness reduced overall over the period of lending. But I thought by continuing to lend, Cashfloat was 
effectively prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness, by allowing her to take expensive credit over 
an extended period  around 17 months in total. As a responsible lender, Cashfloat should 
have reasonably questioned whether it should continue to offer further short-term loans to 
this consumer, whose repeated borrowing suggested that by loan 6, she had become reliant 
on the lending - which the rules and guidance made clear should only be for a short-term 
purpose. I didnt think Cashfloat should have provided loan 6 or any further lending. 
In summary, I said I was not intending to uphold Miss Bs complaint about loans 1 to 4. But I 
didnt think that Cashfloat should have agreed to provide loans 5 to 10 and Cashfloat needed 
to put things right. 
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Miss B agreed with my 
provisional decision. Ive not seen any further comments or evidence from Cashfloat. The 
deadline for any further responses has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about loans 1 to 4. But Cashfloat shouldnt have provided 
loans 5 to 10. So Cashfloat needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I understand loan 10 remains outstanding. Cashfloat should try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Miss B in respect of any outstanding balances - bearing in 
mind the need to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
If Cashfloat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Cashfloat isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Cashfloat should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
that has already been refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss B which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date the payments were originally 
made, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loan 10, 
and treat any repayments made by Miss B as though they had been repayments of 
the principal on this loan. If this results in Miss B having made overpayments then 
Cashfloat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on 
the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled. Cashfloat should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss B. However if there is still 
an outstanding balance then Cashfloat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with her.
E. Cashfloat should remove any adverse information about loan 5 from Miss Bs credit 
file. The overall pattern of borrowing for loans 6 to 10 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Cashfloat should remove these loans entirely 
from Miss Bs credit file. If Cashfloat has sold the outstanding loan it should ask the 
debt purchaser to do the same. Cashfloat does not have to remove the outstanding 
loan from Miss Bs credit file until it has been repaid, but it should still remove any 
adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HMRC requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest and provide Miss B with a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she requests one. If Cashfloat intends to 
use the refund to reduce the amount Miss B owes, it must do this after tax. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part and direct Western Circle Limited trading as Cashfloat to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman