DRN-3286963
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Cynergy Bank Limited trading as Cynergy Bank had given her poor
customer service which resulted in significant costs to herself.
What happened
Mrs C received a letter from Cynergy explaining that they were changing her account to a
Classic Saver account, effective from 29 August 2019. The letter explained that once the
account was changed, she would be no longer be able to deposit cash or withdraw cash on
the account.
Mrs C emailed Cynergy in July 2019 and asked them how she could get her money from her
account. She asked for the branch address and if she needed to do anything else to close
her account. She said she was looking forward to the reply so she could organise her trip.
Cynergy responded and said if Mrs C wished to close her account then she could send a
signed letter to the address they provided, or she could send them a secure message
confirming her instruction. They also confirmed the address they gave her was the address
of the branch. Mrs C booked a trip to the UK as she lived overseas. She says the trip was to
close her account, withdraw the cash and deposit the money with another UK bank.
In October 2019, Mrs C exchanged a number of secure messages with Cynergy, explaining
that she was going to visit the branch from 16-21 October 2019, in order to withdraw her
money in cash from the branch. Cynergy said that she would need to contact customer
services two days before she wanted the cash so they could arrange it for her. Mrs C sent
Cynergy another message as when she tried to get through to customer services, she was
unable to speak to a call handler due to call waiting times and the costs of ringing overseas.
She informed Cynergy she was going to the branch on 21 October 2019. Cynergy
responded and asked Mrs C to let them know how much she wanted to withdraw as any
withdrawals over 2,000 euros would require two days notice.
Mrs C says that on 21 October 2019, she visited the branch of Cynergy to withdraw the cash
with a family member. Mrs C says she went to a cashier who informed her that the maximum
that she could withdraw was 2000 euros. Mrs C says she tried to explain that she had been
exchanging messages with customer services when the cashier told her to go and see
another member of staff who was in an office.
Mrs C spoke to the lady who informed Mrs C that she wouldnt be able to withdraw any cash
from her account. Mrs C says she was furious as she hadnt been told in her messages that
she wouldnt have been able to withdraw cash from her account. Mrs C says that the staff
member offered to transfer her funds into her overseas account, but Mrs C had planned to
use some of the cash to pay her expenses while in the UK. Mrs C says she spent
approximately 2,100 Euros on her trip. When Mrs C returned home she saw that the transfer
hadnt been actioned by the member of staff.
Mrs C complaint to Cynergy. Cynergy upheld her complaint and said they would credit her
account with £50, which they said they paid on 29 October 2019. Mrs Cs account was
closed also on 29 October 2019. Mrs C brought her complaint to our service. While her
complaint was being investigated by our service, Cynergy offered to increase their
compensation to Mrs C by a further £450, so the total of compensation would be £500 for
the distress and inconvenience Mrs C had. Mrs C wanted Cynergy to pay her expenses for
her trip to the UK so she did not accept the offer to resolve her complaint.
Our investigator felt that the offer of a further £450 was fair. He said whilst their letter in
June, informing Mrs C of the upcoming changes to her account would mean she couldnt
make cash withdrawals, Cynergy shouldve clarified that with Mrs C when she began
contacting them regarding a branch withdrawal.
Our investigator said that Mrs C had booked her trip several weeks before she told Cynergy
when shed be in the UK and in her first contact to Cynergy on 29 July 2019, she simply
referred to a trip to London. It didnt say that she was planning the trip exclusively to
withdraw money. He also said that when Cynergy first informed Mrs C of the changes, they
made it clear that online transfers were an option. So he wasnt persuaded it would be fair or
proportionate to ask Cynergy to refund Mrs C the cost of her trip. Mrs C asked for an
Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that she was solely in the UK to withdraw the
cash from Cynergy.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cynergy have admitted that they let Mrs C down by not advising her through the secure
message exchanges they had with Mrs C, that for the account she held in October 2019,
that she couldnt make withdrawals in cash, instead they made comments about withdrawals
in general. So, what I need to decide here, is whether the compensation that Cynergy have
already paid to Mrs C (£50) and whether the additional compensation of £450 is a fair and
reasonable offer for the impact of the mistakes that Cynergy have made here. Im persuaded
that it is and Ill explain why.
I know Mrs C feels strongly that Cynergy should refund her expenses of the trip as she says
she made the visit with the sole purpose of taking cash from the branch. But I must make it
clear to Mrs C that I cant ask them to pay for any expenses she incurred for the trip as
Cynergy explained in their July 2019 email to Mrs C that she could write a letter and have
the account closed. Mrs C would then have been able to withdraw the cash once it had been
transferred to her own account. So it was clear she did not have to travel to access her
money here.
Mrs C made the decision to travel and take cash out of the account. So even if she was
allowed to withdraw cash from the account, there would have always been the same costs
she incurred with travelling to the UK to make the withdrawal. Mrs C would have needed to
pay these costs regardless, to access her money as she said she wished to put the money
into another UK bank when she was in the UK.
So although Mrs C had not been able to withdraw cash specifically from the account, as the
account type had changed, which she was informed via letter before she booked her trip to
the UK, she still would have been able to open another account with another bank or
building society while she was in the UK to transfer the money into. But Ive seen no
evidence that Mrs C did do this while she was in the UK.
I say this as Cynergy eventually transferred the funds into her overseas account and not to anewly opened UK account. If Mrs C did open a new account while she was in the UK, then
she may have been able to transfer the funds from her Cynergy account to the new UK
account. This would have the same effect as withdrawing the cash from the branch and
depositing this within a newly opened account in the UK. Mrs C would have then been able
to withdraw cash from her newly opened UK account to pay for some of her expenses as
she intended to do so.
I can also see that the accommodation which was booked was for two guests. So although
the second guest may have been a family member who was helping her withdraw the cash
from the branch had she been able to do so, Im not persuaded that the expenses provided
have been solely incurred by Mrs C. And I dont think its proportionate to ask Cynergy to pay
for costs which they were never going to reimburse Mrs C with, regardless of whether cash
was available or not.
So Im not persuaded that the journey was solely made just to withdraw the cash. It may be
that it was the main reason, but Mrs C booked accommodation with another person for a
whole week. If she had been able to withdraw the cash and deposit it within another UK
bank then this would have took 1-2 days maximum. As Ive already mentioned, there would
have always been a cost that Mrs C would have needed to pay to do this, so Im not
persuaded that Cynergy should pay any of the expenses Mrs C incurred as they explained in
their email she needed to write a letter to close her account.
Mrs C had already booked and paid for her accommodation and travel before she told
Cynergy she was actually coming to the UK in October 2019. By this time, the account would
have changed and she would not be able to withdraw cash from her new account.
I think what is likely to have happened here, in her messages between herself and Cynergy
is that the staff member she had been speaking to had been giving her generic withdrawal
information as opposed to account specific information. It is unknown what would have
happened if Mrs C would have been told at this point that she couldnt have withdrawn the
cash and could only transfer it.
I say this as the flights and accommodation were already paid for and she was travelling
within a week or two of the message exchanges with Cynergy. So it would be unlikely that
Mrs C could receive full refunds for these expenses at this time (or any refund at all), so as
she told us she wanted to open another UK account while she was here, its possible that
she may have continued with her journey to meet this objective, especially if she was unable
to obtain a full or partial refund of the costs she had already incurred.
Both parties agree that Cynergy should have been clearer within their messages to Mrs C
regarding their procedure. Im left in no doubt that Mrs C would have been very distressed by
making the visit to the UK, only to be told incorrect information. Not only was she told
generic, non-account specific information regarding the secured messages in October 2019
when she contacted them, but she was also told incorrect information in the branch. So while
Im not persuaded that its reasonable for Cynergy to refund any of the costs of the trip to the
branch, for the reasons Ive already given, Im satisfied that they should award Mrs C
compensation for the inconvenience and distress their errors have caused her once she did
arrive in the UK.
In terms of the compensation they already offered, I agree with both parties that the £50
which was paid isnt enough compensation for what happened. Cynergy have offered a
further £450 compensation, which brings the total to £500. Im satisfied that the further £450
compensation is fair and reasonable for what happened here. I say this as the amount which
has been offered is typically more than I would have been able to award Mrs C had they not
made their increased offer.Cynergy did try and mitigate the impact of what happened by offering to transfer the money
elsewhere, but they didnt transfer the money at the time, which would have further
distressed Mrs C. I can see Cynergy did transfer the money in a timely manner once Mrs C
had complained, shortly after her visit. So Im satisfied that Cynergys increased
compensation should help put things right for Mrs C.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Cynergy responded and they said that they had no further comments to add. Mrs C 
responded and she made a number of points. In summary she said she had told the bank 
she didnt agree to the account type changing, she wouldve planned to visit the bank earlier 
but it wasnt possible, Cynergy didnt answer her as quickly as they used to and they gave 
her incorrect information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mrs C has said about how she didnt agree to her account type 
changing. But Cynergy do not need her permission to change the account type. What they 
needed to do was inform Mrs C of the changes they were going to make and give sufficient 
notice for these changes to come into effect. That is what Cynergy did here. The notice 
document was very clear that she wouldnt be able to withdraw cash in the branch from the 
account once it was changed. So although Mrs C had planned to visit the branch earlier, 
ultimately she visited the branch after the account type was changed and therefore she was 
not eligible to withdraw cash from the branch.
Ive then considered what Mrs C has said about Cynergy not responding to her as quickly as 
they used to. I can understand why she would feel frustrated regarding this. But I dont think 
this would have changed the outcome of her complaint. I say this as Cynergy did respond to 
Mrs Cs messages, but they could have been clearer with the information they told Mrs C 
regarding the withdrawal. 
As I said in my provisional decision Cynergy have admitted that they let Mrs C down by not 
advising her through the secure message exchanges they had with Mrs C, that for the 
account she held in October 2019, that she couldnt make withdrawals in cash, instead they 
made comments about withdrawals in general. 
So for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I am unable to ask Cynergy to pay for 
Mrs Cs expenses when she always would have incurred these whether Cynergy allowed her 
to withdraw the cash or not. Cynergy never said that they would pay for any expenses at any 
time during these events. So I dont think its proportionate for the reasons I mentioned in my 
provisional decision to ask them to do so now. 
But I do think its proportionate for Cynergy to pay Mrs C the extra compensation they have 
offered as Im persuaded this reflects the inconvenience and distress Mrs C will have 
suffered due to the messages she received from Cynergy.
In summary, Mrs Cs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs C will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope she understand my reasons. 
My final decision
Cynergy Bank Limited trading as Cynergy Bank has already paid Mrs C £50 and they havemade an offer to pay a further £450 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all
the circumstances.
So my decision is that Cynergy Bank Limited trading as Cynergy Bank should pay Mrs C a 
further £450, which would bring the total compensation to £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman