DRN-3687977
The complaint
Miss T complained because Santander UK plc credited her account with £170 when she 
said shed paid £800 into a cash machine.
What happened
On Sunday 11 April 2021, Miss T went to pay some money into her Santander account. She 
used the cash machine outside the closed branch.
Miss T said she put in £800 in cash, but that the machine jammed as soon as shed put the 
money in. She could see the wad of cash which was jammed, and tried to pull it out, but 
couldnt. 
The machine then asked her to confirm a deposit of £170, and Miss T pressed cancel. The 
machine returned £5 but nothing more. 
Miss T took a photo of the error message on the machine, which said Sorry we are unable 
to process your transaction.
She rang the phone number on the cash machine, and spoke to someone who said shed be 
contacted. On the Monday morning, branch staff checked the machine, and then rang Miss 
T. Miss T told Santander what had happened, including that shed then put her card in a 
second time, to see what the machine would do. And she said shed then watched the next 
customer, who was also trying to deposit cash but hadnt been able to.
What Santander had found in the machine when it checked it on the Monday morning was 
£170 cash  which matched the message Miss T said shed seen on the screen. Santander 
credited Miss Ts account with £170. But it refused to credit her with the full £800 which 
shed said shed tried to pay in. This was because there had only been £170 in whats called 
the purge box in the machine, where unallocated cash goes. Santander also said the 
journal roll, which shows machine transactions, had shown that Miss T had only put her card 
in once, not twice as shed said, and also that it had shown that the next customer had been 
making a withdrawal, not a deposit as Miss T had said.
Miss T complained. Santander didnt uphold her complaint. In its final response, it said the 
branch had completed a full investigation, and couldnt find any evidence that Miss T had 
tried to pay in £800. It had credited her with the £170 which was in the machine. It said that if 
Miss T had any further evidence to support her claim, she could get in touch again.
Miss T wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. She told our investigator that in January 
2011, shed sold her car. Shed then gone abroad for several months. The money shed tried 
to pay in on 11 April was money from the car sale in January, which shed kept aside for 
when she got back from abroad. She said that shed asked Santander for CCTV but it wasnt 
available. Miss T said she was unemployed and asked for her complaint to be prioritised. 
Our investigator issued two views. In the second one, she upheld Miss Ts complaint 
because Santander hadnt provided us with the normal computer evidence wed expect to 
see in a disputed transaction case. It hadnt sent us a copy of the technical evidence  the 
journal roll; the surplus found in the machines purge box; or evidence about any technical 
faults with the machine. So the investigator said Santander should refund Miss T with £625 
plus interest. £625 was the difference between the £800 shed said shed paid in, less the 
£170 already credited and less the £5 which Miss T said the machine had returned. The 
investigator also thought Santander should pay Miss T £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Santander didnt agree. It said that it only kept computer evidence such as journal rolls for 
three months. CCTV was also only kept for a short time, but Santander said that it had no 
record of Miss T ever having asked for CCTV. Santander sent a copy of its records which 
showed all the transactions on Miss Ts account, but confirmed it no longer had the journal 
roll and other evidence. Santander asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
In my provisional decision, I explained that there are regulations which govern the outcome 
of disputed transactions. The relevant ones for Miss Ts complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. Section 75 says:
Evidence on authentication and execution of payment transactions
75.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the service provided by 
the payment service provider.
This means that its Santanders responsibility, as the payment service provider to provide 
the technical proof here. Santander had sent us a list of transactions on Miss Ts account, 
but what Id have needed was the journal roll, computer evidence about what was found in 
the purge box, evidence that the machine balanced, and evidence about any technical faults. 
Santander had said that its staff looked at the computerised journal roll before reaching an 
outcome on Miss Ts complaint. But it didnt keep these records. I realised that Santander 
may have its reasons for this, but the requirements of the Payment Services Regulations are 
very clear and say its for the payment service provider to provide information to show the 
payment was correctly made. 
I recognised that Santander may have had other concerns about Miss Ts claim.  It said the 
journal roll showed that Miss T hadnt put her card in twice, as shed said, and that the next 
person hadnt tried to deposit money as shed said. Santander also pointed out that Miss Ts 
other transactions were principally by internet or phone  not large cash deposits. Miss T 
told our investigator that the money was the proceeds of a car sale before she went abroad for a few months, which shed kept for her return. But I found it strange that Miss T didnt pay 
it in to Santander for safekeeping before she went, and didnt try to do so until her return. 
And although Miss T took a photo of a cash machine error message saying said Sorry we 
are unable to process your transaction, this doesnt prove anything about the specific 
transaction. 
Theres a dispute about whether or not Miss T asked for CCTV  she said she did, and 
Santander said she didnt. But CCTV rarely shows what its hoped to. Even if it had still been 
available, I think its unlikely it would clearly have shown Miss T trying to pay in £800. 
So I could understand why Santander wasnt willing to refund Miss T. But in my view, that 
wasnt a fair or reasonable decision when taking into account what the Payment Services 
Regulations require, and Santanders failure to provide the information to support its 
argument here. So I upheld Miss Ts complaint about the outstanding £625 in dispute. I said 
that this meant I intended to order Santander to refund Miss T with £625, plus interest at 8% 
from 11 April 2021 to the date of payment.
But I said that I didnt agree with the investigators intention also to award Miss T £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. So I issued a provisional decision to enable 
both sides to comment before I issue my final decision.
My reason for not awarding compensation was that there was no significant delay by 
Santander in processing Miss Ts complaint. The disputed transaction took place on a 
Sunday, 11 April, and the branch investigated and phoned her on Monday. The final 
response letter was issued on 21 April, when the standard maximum allowed for a response 
to a complaint is eight weeks. And there was nothing to show that the manner in which 
Santander responded to Miss T added any significant amounts of stress to the situation.
We're all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and its not unusual to experience 
a certain level of frustration and minor annoyance when dealing with financial businesses. 
But for us to make an award wed need to see that the impact of a business's mistake was 
more than what someone would expect to experience in everyday life. So I wasnt 
persuaded that Santander dealt with Miss T in such a way that it should pay her 
compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss T said that she was happy with the outcome.
Santander didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the evidence, and in the light of the responses, I consider that my 
provisional decision was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I order Santander UK plc to:- pay Miss T £625. This represents the £800 she said shed paid into the cash 
machine, less the £170 credited and the £5 returned by the machine; and 
- pay Miss T interest at 8% simple on £625 from 11 April 2021 to the date of payment.
I do not order Santander to pay Miss T any compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman