DRN-3129810
The complaint
Mr L complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has undervalued his car following a claim 
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident where another driver drove into his classic car. Mr L wasnt 
at fault. The car was inspected, and Mr L says he received a call from a specialist engineer. 
During this call Mr L says he was told that, there was no way my insurers could write it off 
as it was a £25,000 motor.  
Mr Ls car was subsequently inspected by another engineer who took photos and produced 
a report. The engineer valued the car at £6,475 and estimated repair costs to be in excess of 
this amount at around £6,700. Because of this the car was determined a total loss and Mr L 
was offered a settlement payment based on this valuation minus his excess (£500). 
Mr L thought his car was in a better condition than Ageass engineer had decided. The 
engineer thought the car was in a fair condition and referred to two specialist classic car 
guides to support his valuation. Mr L says his car was bought in excellent condition, hes 
spent around £10,000 on maintenance, repairs and bodywork since he bought it and keeps it 
in a garage five days a week. He says he would be happy to accept £20,000. 
Ageas didnt change its valuation and Mr L referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought Ageass approach to valuing the car was 
reasonable based on the classic car guides. Based on the engineers report and the photos 
showing the condition of the car he felt the valuation was fair. 
Mr L disagreed, maintaining his view that his car was in an excellent condition, which 
supported a higher valuation. Our investigator didnt change his view and Mr L asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I understand he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ageas says it based its offer on the market value of the car at the time of the loss. The policy 
terms say:
Market Value
The cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification, year, 
mileage and condition. In assessing the market value of your car, we will refer to insurance 
industry recognised guides of vehicle values as well as searching for available vehicles 
being offered for sale to the general public. 
I have thought about the approach Ageas took when valuing Mr Ls car to understand if this 
was fair.  
Our usual approach to handling complaints about car valuations is similar to Ageas. We look 
at the motor trade guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive
because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. 
Because of the age of Mr Ls car, the usual guides didnt have listings available. I can see 
Ageas used two of the classic car guides in this case to establish a valuation. This approach 
seems reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ageass engineer described Mr Ls car in fair condition in relation to the first of the guides it 
used, which gave a valuation of £6,700. It provided the following information about the 
condition ratings: 
Concours 1- £28,200, Excellent 2 - £19,100, Good 3 - £11,000, Fair 4 - £6,700
Fair 4  Cars are daily drivers, with flaws visible to the naked eye. The chrome might have 
pitting or scratches, the windshield might be chipped. Paintwork is imperfect, and perhaps 
the fender has a minor dent. The interior could have split seams or a cracked dash. No 
major parts are missing, but the wheels could differ from the originals, or the interior might 
not be stock. No major customisations have been made. A 4 car can also be a deteriorated 
restoration.   
Good 3 - Cars could possess some, but not all of the issues of a fair car, but they will be 
balanced by other factors such as a fresh paint job or a new, correct interior. Good cars drive 
and run well, but might have some incorrect parts. These cars are not used for daily 
transportation but are ready for a long tour without excuses, and the casual passerby will not 
find any visual flaws. No major customisations have been made..
The valuations and condition ratings from the second guide used by Ageas say:
Concours/Dealer - £18,500  Rating is a basic guide to what you can expect to pay for the 
best examples of a model a concours car or something from a dealer. 
Condition 1 - £11,000  Means well-presented cars that have no obvious faults.
Condition 2 - £6,250  Cars are capable of regular use, they have a current MOT certificate 
but will need work and or original parts.
Condition 3 - £3,750  Cars usually need a full rebuild but may be drivable and MOTd. 
Its engineer decided condition two best described the condition of Mr Ls car from this guide, 
which gave a valuation of £6,250.
I have read the invoices Mr L provided detailing various work carried out on his car from 
2014 onwards. I have also studied the photos taken by the engineer during his inspection of 
the car, when considering whether Ageass valuation was arrived at fairly. 
The engineer describes a number of pre-accident issues with the car, which include: 
extensive corrosion to the offside rear wing that requires extensive fabrication work, welding 
and repainting; same for the nearside wing lower section; front bumper damage requiring 
removal, repair and repainting; significant water leak through the lower area of the front 
screen, requiring removal of the screen, fabrication work to the scuttle panel, welding and repainting, dashboard requires removal and all front fitting carpets require replacement; a full 
interior valet to remove damaged interior odour; drivers seat cover is worn through and 
needs replacing; engine oil is jet black an oil change and possibly a service is required.  
I can see that Mr L disagrees with the engineers findings. He says the paintwork was 
absolutely perfect on the car prior to the accident. He also says there was no scratching or 
pitting to the chromework, the car had no dents, the seats are in good condition and had 
been professionally re-conollised the year before the accident. He also points out that 
Ageas left his car outside during the winter whereas he had it in a garage for all its life.
Mr L says that his research shows there are no roadworthy cars of this type for sale for 
under £26,000.  
Ive looked through the photos taken by the engineer. There is damage to the wings of the 
car, which fit with the engineers description. The interior of the car is showing some damage 
to the drivers seat cover which is split in several areas, as is the arm rest between the front 
seats and the drivers side door arm rest. I can see the damage described to the front 
bumper and there are other sections where the paintwork is scratched. Overall, I think the 
description set out by the engineer fits with the condition of the car as seen in the photos. 
Looking at the first industry guide Ageas used, the definition of good condition requires a 
new paint job, or correct interior. This is the condition rating above which Mr Ls car was 
assessed to be. But the interior and paint on Mr Ls car are showing signs of wear and 
damage, as are the other areas highlighted. 
The second guide describes condition one as a well-presented car that has no obvious 
faults. This is the next condition rating up, but again there are several faults identified by 
Ageass engineer, which are visible on the photos provided. So, for both guides I think the 
condition ratings identified by Ageas most closely reflect the condition of the car. I dont 
agree with Mr L that the condition of his car can be considered either excellent or 
concours/dealer, which denotes the highest standard. 
Mr L doesnt have a valuation report to support the £25,000 figure he was advised over the 
phone. We asked Ageas if it had information to support this. It doesnt. It says it has no 
information to support what was discussed with Mr L by the accident management company. 
It says it doesnt think this valuation is correct and says it stands by its qualified engineers 
valuation.
Having considered all of this information, I acknowledge Mr L has had work carried out on 
the car over the years, but I dont think hes shown that the condition reported by the 
engineer is inaccurate or unfair. Based on the evidence I have seen, the engineers view is 
persuasive. I think Ageass approach taking the average valuation from the two classic car 
guides, based on the condition ratings its engineer confirmed, was reasonable.
Im sorry that Mr L is upset and disappointed with this valuation. But I think Ageas acted 
fairly when relying on its policy terms and offering the settlement payment it did. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve Mr Ls complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman