DRN-3941024
The complaint
Mr C has complained that CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a SIPP.
Mr C joined the BSPS in August 2004 and had 12 years and 7 months service before 
leaving in March 2017, when the scheme was closed to future accrual. His deferred pension
benefits were valued in the region of £9,300 pa when, in July 2017, the BSPS confirmed that 
the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of these benefits, was just over £204,000.
Mr C didnt have a financial adviser so he contacted CST, which had the FCA-required 
permissions to advise in this area, for its recommendations with regards to his available 
options.
On 8 August 2017, Mr C signed the client agreement of the CST service proposition.
A fact find was then subsequently completed, which recorded the following details about Mr
C:
He was 38, married with three dependent children and employed with a basic salary 
in the region of £33,000 pa.
He had no concerns regarding his own or Mrs Cs health.
The family home was worth in the region of £140,000 with an outstanding mortgage 
of around £96,000. Mr and Mrs C also had unsecured lending estimated to be in the 
region of £40,000. Both mortgage and other debts were covered by life assurance.
Total investable family assets were recorded as being in the region of £1,000 held in 
cash, with no record of any asset backed investments.
The only other pension recorded was the defined contribution workplace pension 
which started earlier that year in April.
The question: Are there any other factors likely to influence when you retire, was answered:
affordability. Subsequent notes also recorded the statement: Would consider retirement 
age 60.
A Dynamic Planner Risk Profiler was completed and recorded the following questions and
answers in relation to Mr Cs investment experience:
Have you ever invested in pensions where you could control the selection of funds?  
- answered: No
Have you ever invested in collective investments such as funds in stocks and 
shares, ISA, OEIC, unit trust or investment trust? - answered: No
Have you ever bought or sold shares on the stock market? - answered: No
An attitude to risk questionnaire was completed where Mr C described himself as a risk
taker.
In terms of capacity for loss, the question: How much of this investment could you stand to
lose without having a significant impact on your future standard of living?, was answered
Medium losses could be tolerated. Mr C also answered, I have other savings and 
investments, which I can use for most needs.
A Risk Profile Report was prepared by CST on 13 September 2017. Although the question:
How would you describe your level of investment experience? doesnt appear to have
been answered in the original dynamic risk profiler completed by Mr C, it was now
recorded as: Experienced, Im comfortable with investing and have some understanding of
the potential risks and rewards. Mr Cs risk profile was confirmed as 9 on a scale to 1 to 
10, which equated to very high.
On 20 September 2017, an AJ Bell illustration was produced and, following this, a Pension
Transfer Report was issued on 29 September 2017. This confirmed that the critical yield 
based on a proposed retirement age of 65 would be 7.53% pa, if all benefits were taken as 
pension, or 6.44% pa for a reduced pension plus tax free lump sum. 
However, based on the proposed retirement age of 60, the critical yield increased to 8.24%, 
if all benefits were taken as a pension, or 6.94% for a reduced pension plus tax fee cash.
A suitability report was produced and dated 11 September 2017, which set out CSTs 
recommendations.In the report, CST explained that the earlier analysis provided it with a guide to Mr Cs risk 
profile. It went on to say: we note that you have made several investments in the past 
without taking financial advice and appear comfortable with the prospect of investing in 
higher risk assets in order to achieve a higher rate of return. 
However, the recommendation made was for a more cautious investment approach as this 
transfer considers the majority of your pension provision. The report went on to say that the 
adviser would consider Mr Cs capacity for loss to be medium.
The report further confirmed that Mr C planned to retire at 60, which was 5 years before
the BSPS normal scheme retirement age. It set out the critical yields needed to match the 
scheme benefits at age 65 as being 6.55%, increasing to 7.06% at age 60 assuming PCLS 
was taken alongside a reduced income in both scenarios. 
CST gave its opinion that these critical yields werent guaranteed to be achievable. It also 
said that the critical yield required to buy the equivalent scheme benefits was recorded as 
7.1% based on a retirement age of 65 and again CST confirmed that it could offer no 
guarantee that this would be achieved.
Mr Cs objectives were identified in the suitability report as being:
1. To secure the generous transfer value now.
2. To be able to retire at 60 without taking a reduction in accrued pension.
3. Have any residual funds distributed to family in the event of death rather than        
purely a return of the contributions paid.
Under the section entitled advantages of transferring to a personal arrangement, it was 
noted that the facility for flexi access drawdown from age 57 would give the opportunity to 
withdraw income and /or lump sums in a tax efficient manner as and when required.
CST recommended that Mr C increase voluntary contributions to his workplace pension with 
excess income and that he transfer scheme benefits from the BSPS to a personal pension 
arrangement. The recommended contract was an AJ Bell SIPP with Brewin Dolphin, 
providing discretionary fund management.
The suitability report was sent to Mr C on 20 September 2017, along with the transfer
documentation.
Mr C signed the client declaration on 11 October 2017 to confirm he had read the report and 
wished to proceed with the recommendation. CSTs final response letter to the complaint 
confirmed that this was subject to an increased CETV.
The Brewin Dolphin account opening form confirmed the investment objective as being
cautious with risk, with an intended retirement age of 75.
On 19 March 2018, CST confirmed by email that the transfer amount had been received by 
AJ Bell.
On 6 June 2022, Mr C raised a complaint, as he felt he may have been given the wrong 
advice to transfer out of BSPS, to a private pension arrangement.
On 14 October 2022, CST responded following its investigation into Mr Cs complaint. Its 
final response was that it was satisfied that the advice Mr C received was in his best 
interests. Mr C was dissatisfied with the response. Having considered the complaint, our investigator 
thought that it should be upheld. He said the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The critical yield to match the scheme benefits at age 65 was 7.1% and to match 
them at age 60 it was 7.06%. The discount rates to those ages was 4.6% and 4.5% 
respectively and, taking into account Mr Cs attitude to risk, along with the SIPP 
illustration mid band projected growth rate of 2.44%, it was unlikely that the scheme 
benefits could be bettered through transferring.
The perceived generosity of the CETV wouldnt, of itself, constitute a reasonable 
justification for a transfer of defined benefits, as set out by the regulator.
Mr C said that he would consider early retirement at 60, but this would be determined 
by affordability. He was 38 at the time of the advice and didnt need to make an 
irreversible decision to transfer based on a prospect which was many years distant. 
And early retirement was in any case possible from the BSPS 2 or PPF.
Mr C had no health issues, and there was no evidence of a discussion as to why 
lump sum death benefits were an important consideration for him and his family. 
Within the scheme, Mrs C would benefit from the 50% spouses pension which the 
scheme would provide. Any additional lump sum requirements could have been 
addressed through appropriate life assurance.
Mr C wasnt an experienced investor and, although he was recorded as having a 
medium capacity for loss, this wasnt supported by other investments or assets 
held. As such, he had a limited capacity for loss, and a secure inflation proof income 
as provided by the scheme would have been in his best interests. Any requirement 
for flexibility of income could have been assessed nearer to retirement, at which point 
the significant sum which Mr C would by then have accrued by way of defined 
contributions could also have been taken into account.
There was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF, and any such 
concerns around this should have been appropriately managed.
The investigator recommended that CST undertake a loss calculation in accordance with the 
regulators guidance (FG17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr C would have 
opted to join the BSPS 2.
But the investigator also noted the regulators consultation on a revised methodology and 
enquired of Mr C as to whether, if the complaint was upheld, his preference would be to have a loss calculation undertaken on the existing basis, or to await the new methodology 
for defined benefit transfer redress calculations.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Cs pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr C, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
He also said that CST should pay Mr C £300 in respect of the trouble and upset that the 
matter would have caused him.
Neither party submitted further comments on the merits of the case. The (new) investigator 
then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a BSPS-specific redress 
calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the BSPS consumer redress 
scheme. But, she said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use the calculator for 
non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require CST to use the
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr C.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint, they should let her
know by 8 June 2023.
CST confirmed that it would be using the BSPS-specific redress calculator if an ombudsman 
upheld the complaint.
But as agreement hasnt been reached on the outcome of the complaint, its been referred to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CST's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 specifically relate to a defined 
benefit pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a defined benefit scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, 
CST should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Cs best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The TVAS report which CST was required to carry out by the regulator said that the 
critical yield - how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his defined benefit scheme  was 7.53% to 
match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65. Or to 
match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would provide at 
that age, it was 6.44%. To match the full pension at 60, the critical yield was 8.24% 
and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension, it was 6.94%.
Mr C was recorded as having a high attitude to risk, but CST itself said in the 
suitability report that this should translate into a more cautious investment strategy to 
take into account Mr Cs circumstances and that the transfer represented the majority 
of his pension provision. I agree, and I think the cautious with risk mandate on the 
SIPP application form was likely to be a reasonable description of the type of risk 
rating which was appropriate for Mr C. 
But given this, the discount rate of between 4.5% and 4.6% between ages 60 and 65, 
and the regulators middle projection rate for growth (5% pa), I think Mr C was more 
likely than not to receive pension benefits, from age 60 or 65, of a lower value that 
those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS 2 (or the PPF) by transferring and 
investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
Early retirement may well have been appealing to Mr C, as it might reasonably be 
appealing to a great many people, but he had no clear or pressing plans to do so, 
which I think is understandable for a 38 year old. Mr Cs circumstances may in any 
case have changed significantly between then and retirement. 
In terms of the alternative lump sum benefits a transfer offered to his family, the 
priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses (and dependants) 
pension, which could have been valuable to his wife and three dependent children in 
the event of his death.
Whilst the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it would have also 
been reduced by any income Mr C drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr C may have thought it would. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. And ultimately CST shouldnt have encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
Any desire Mr C had for flexibility could have been addressed by utilising his defined 
contribution accrual when he came to retire. He would, by the age of 60, have had 
some 22 years defined contributions, which, given the overall contribution from him 
and his employer, would likely have been significant.  
Mr C may have held concerns about the prospects for the BSPS. But it was CSTs 
role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed 
toward the BSPS 2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr C 
with guaranteed income, the option of accessing tax-free cash, and early retirement. 
Mr C was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF 
was not as concerning as he might have thought, and I dont think any concerns he 
held about this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons as to why it was clearly in Mr Cs best interest to 
relinquish his defined benefits and transfer them to a SIPP, especially with so many years to 
go to retirement. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr C would have 
insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the defined benefit scheme. 
So, as with the investigator, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr C received 
from CST was unsuitable.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would more 
likely than not have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the 
BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given.
CST Wealth Management Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
CST Wealth Management Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and our 
service upon completion of the calculation.
Mr C hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years. Mr C expressed a keenness to 
have the option to retire early if it was affordable, rather than there being a clear plan to do 
so. Therefore, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs
acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, CST Wealth Management Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with the 
cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts CST Wealth Management Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr C 
the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also 
recommend that CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on CST Wealth Management 
Limited.My recommendation wouldnt be binding on CST Wealth Management Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr C could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
I also agree with the investigator that CST Wealth Management Limited should pay Mr C 
£300. I think its likely that hell have experienced not inconsiderable levels of concern over 
this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct CST Wealth Management Limited 
to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman