DRN-2620207
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mrs S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ss mortgage application form 
which explicitly said the PPI was optional and not a condition of the mortgage. There 
were also two options for customers to select depending on whether they wanted to 
proceed with Barclays recommendation to take PPI or decline cover. The box requesting 
cover has been selected and Mrs S has signed the form. This application form had a 
separate form attached for PPI only, and Mrs S has again signed the declaration 
requesting cover. There was a declaration she couldve signed if she had declined cover, 
but this was left blank. The cost and benefit amount had been made clear on the forms. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Mrs S was eligible for the cover 
and although she had existing means she still seems to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Ss employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Mrs S says she had a medical condition and suffered 
an injury some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for 
Barclays to have recommended it. I say this because she experienced these health 
issues several years before the sale and she hasnt said she suffered any ongoing 
problems with them around the time of sale. Furthermore, this policy didnt exclude 
claims for existing medical problems if a customer had remained free of any issues with 
their known health problems for two years prior to a claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons to take the policy out. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs S as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs S 
would have declined the cover had Barclays done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Barclays doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman