DRN-2933744
The complaint
Mr B complains about American Express Services Europe Limiteds (AESEL), trading as 
American Express, decision to default his account.
What happened
Mr B took out four credit cards with American Express in 2018. Mr B said that once the credit 
cards were approved, he downloaded the American Express mobile banking application and 
set up Direct Debits for the minimum payments for each of his cards. 
In January 2019, American Express contacted Mr B and queried a transaction made using 
one of his credit cards. Mr B said the American Express staff member had an aggressive 
tone and he felt interrogated, but he told American Express the transaction was linked to a 
payment for web design. On the same day, American Express wrote a letter to Mr B asking 
for more information relating to his account and explained the accounts were under review. 
Mr B says he didnt receive this letter.
In February 2019, Mr B received default notices for all four of his credit cards. The notices 
explained that if payment was not made within 14 days, legal proceedings may be taken, 
and that the debt may be transferred to a debt collection agency and a default added to 
Mr Bs credit file for six years.
In March 2019, American Express made the decision to end their banking relationship with 
Mr B. They sent letters to Mr B to explain that his agreement for all four credit cards were 
terminated and all monies outstanding were now payable in full. Mr Bs credit card debt was 
transferred to a debt collection agency. The debt collection agency contacted Mr B about the 
money he owed.
In July 2019, Mr B settled three out of the four credit cards in full. Mr B said he felt pressured 
to do this. In October 2019, as no payment had been received for the fourth card, a default 
was registered against Mr B.
The investigator who looked into things didnt think American Express had acted unfairly. 
She said they were entitled to ask Mr B for information on his accounts and were entitled to 
close the credit cards in the way they did. And she was satisfied the default had been 
applied fairly and that Mr B was sent appropriate letters to inform him of the consequences 
of not paying. 
Mr B didnt agree. In summary he said;
He didnt receive all the letters, and some were addressed incorrectly;
He spoke to American Express about the missing payments and Direct Debit but 
American Express hasnt shared this call;
American Express product prevented Mr Bs Direct Debit from being set up which is 
why he missed payments;
The reason for the closure of his accounts is still unclear;
The default was served without proper correspondence.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I know this will be disappointing news 
for him, so Ive explained my reasons below.
Review of Mr Bs credit card account and closure of his accounts
American Express reviewed Mr Bs account due to transactions which had been made. 
American Express are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. As part of these obligations, theyre required to regularly 
review the relationships they hold with their customers and its often appropriate to request 
more information when doing so. Im pleased to see American Express contacted Mr B while 
carrying out their review to ask for the information they needed.
During the telephone call, Mr B explained the payment in question was linked to a payment 
for web design. But American Express needed more information from Mr B so they sent him 
a letter with everything they needed.
Mr B says he didnt receive the letter from American Express requesting this further 
information. Ive seen a copy of the letter which was sent, and Im satisfied it was correctly 
addressed. Therefore, I cant fairly hold American Express responsible if Mr B didnt receive 
it.
Because Mr B didnt receive the letter, he didnt supply American Express with the extra 
information theyd asked for. American Express then made the commercial decision to end 
their relationship with Mr B and closed his credit card accounts. Im aware Mr B thinks this is 
because he hadnt made payments, but it isnt. American Express explained that the closure 
was due to improper use of the accounts against the terms and conditions. I recognise Mr B 
doesnt think this explanation is entirely clear but American Express arent obliged to explain 
the exact reasons of their decision. Just the same as if Mr B decided to end the agreement 
with American Express  he wouldnt have to explain why. Ultimately, American Express are 
entitled to end the relationship, and they did so in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Bs 
credit card accounts.
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. But Ive reviewed 
American Express actions against their decision, and Ive seen nothing to suggest they 
acted unreasonably.
The Direct Debits and payments made to Mr Bs credit cards
Mr B said when his credit cards were first set up, he downloaded the mobile banking 
application and set up Direct Debits for the minimum payments each month. It seems that on 
at least one of the cards, the Direct Debit wasnt set up correctly. Mr B said this was because 
of American Express product. I havent seen any evidence to show that there were any 
errors with American Express banking application at the time and Im also aware that Mr B 
could have set up a Direct Debit over the phone if he thought there were any issues.
I note Mr B says he had a phone call with American Express regarding the Direct Debit, and 
he feels American Express hasnt shared this phone call with our service. While I havent received a copy of this call, I also havent seen any evidence of such call taking place in the 
form of system or call notes. Mr B also hasnt been able to provide an itemised bill or any 
other details of the phone call to persuade me that it took place. However, even if a phone 
call had taken place, I dont think it would make an overall difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. I say that because Mr B had been sent several letters in February 2019 and 
March 2019 which explained about what might happen to his accounts if payments were not 
made. And I think Mr B ought to have realised if payments werent being made as they 
wouldnt have been debited from his current account. So, even if the telephone conversation 
Mr B is referring to did take place, he was still aware he wasnt making payments to his 
credit card account. And based on the previous letters sent to him, should have been 
reasonably aware of the implications. 
I also dont think this phone call would have made a difference to the closure of Mr Bs credit 
card accounts. I say that, because as explained above, the closure was due to improper use 
of Mr Bs accounts  so even if hed been making payments, I think it more likely than not, 
American Express would have still closed Mr Bs accounts based on the circumstances. 
The default
A default notice was sent to Mr B in February 2019, and a final demand for payment was 
sent in March 2019. Im satisfied these letters were clear and consistent and ought to have 
made Mr B reasonably aware of the implications of no payment.
Mr B held four credit cards in total and settled three of the cards in full in July 2019. The 
fourth card wasnt settled, and the last payment was made to the account in March 2019. 
Because of that, the debt was defaulted in October 2019  which is in line with what Id 
expect as a payment hadnt been made in six months.
Im satisfied American Express gave the relevant and appropriate notices of default and 
fairly applied the default when no payments had been made. Ive explained above why I 
dont think its reasonable to conclude that Mr B was unaware payments hadnt been made, 
and I havent seen any evidence to show hed agreed a repayment plan with the debt 
collection agency  and even if he had, Im satisfied that as no payments were made to the 
account, the plan wouldnt have been followed. 
Mr B says he didnt receive all of the letters because some of them were addressed 
incorrectly. But Ive seen evidence to show that the letters were sent to the same address, 
so I cant find a plausible explanation to explain why Mr B received some and not others. Im 
also unsure how Mr B would be aware some letters were addressed incorrectly if he didnt 
receive them. So, Im satisfied that American Express did send the necessary information 
and therefore fulfilled their obligation in providing notices of default before they applied it.
Therefore, it follows that I think the default was applied fairly and I wont be asking American 
Express to remove it.
Overall
Overall, I dont doubt this has been a challenging time for Mr B and Im sorry he now finds 
himself with a default on his credit file. I appreciate the implications this can have, but I can 
only fairly ask American Express to remove it if I think theyve applied it unfairly. And based 
on the evidence and arguments which have been presented to me, I dont think they have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman