DRN-1552552
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C was sold PPI when he took out a credit card in 2006. Nationwide says the policy wasn't 
mis-sold, but refunded some commission and profit share it received. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed, so I've been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasn't mis-sold for the following reasons.
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr C didn't have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr C about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. 
This means Nationwide doesn't have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Nationwide has paid back some cost of the PPI to Mr C because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told 
Mr C about that. Because Nationwide didn't tell Mr C, that was unfair. To put that right, 
Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said. But these points dont change my decision.My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman