DRN-2899922
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the number of calls hes received from Quickly Finance trading as 
Fast Track Reclaim (FTR). And that he was given conflicting information about his account 
being put on hold.
What happened
In 2018, Mr S instructed FTR to pursue mis-sold PPI claims for him. The agreement with 
FTR was based on a No Win No Fee agreement. And when Mr S had a successful claim 
FTR asked Mr S to pay their fees.
Mr S said that FTR had persistently contacted him through their automated service. Given 
him mis-leading information when hed asked for his account to be put on hold while he was 
waiting the outcome of a subject access request. He said FTR had also told him he had a 
successful claim with one of his lenders Ill call L only for them later to say that this was a 
copy of a letter for a compensation offer hed already been told about and received.
Mr S was also unhappy that FTR after agreeing to reduce his fee by 10% had rounded down 
the amount. He complained to FTR.
FTR said the reduction of 10% was for an amount totalling £580.21 and by reducing the 
amount owed by Mr S to the rounded figure of £500 theyd reduced the amount in excess of 
10%. They agreed they still used automated services as this was their process, but they took 
on board feedback and would look to improve their customer experience. 
FTR also explained when an account would be placed on hold. And that when Mr S account 
was taken off hold it generated the duplicate offer letter. They said theyd given feedback to 
the agents who had mis-led Mr S about the status of his account. FTR apologised for the 
level of service Mr S received.
Mr S wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator explained our role isnt to tell a business what their internal procedures and 
policies should be. She acknowledged that FTR had sent a duplicate offer, but this had been 
corrected within a few days. She said that FTR had acted fairly and reasonably in their 
actions with Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S has raised several concerns about FTRs processes and how theyve communicated 
with him. And he asked for all his concerns since he first instructed FTR to be considered 
together.
The Financial Ombudsman Service operates according to a set of rules made by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out 
when we can  and cant  look into complaints. These rules are set out in a section of the 
FCAs Handbook called Dispute Resolution: Complaints ( DISP). DISP 3.3.4B sets out 
examples of the types of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of these examples is:
(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded
under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which
the Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available
to the complainant).
As a number of Mr S complaints points have been previously considered by us I wont 
comment further on those. And as explained by our investigator we consider individual 
complaints about a business, and its the FCA who is the regulator. 
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. In reaching my decision I need to determine whether FTR has acted fairly and 
reasonably in their actions with Mr S.
I can see from FTRs records that their fee was £580.21 but to recognise some issues raised 
by Mr S theyd agreed to reduce their fee by 10%. When Mr S spoke to FTR, he was told 
that the end figure had been rounded down. And I think Mr S saw this as being derogatory to 
the concerns hed raised. But as the fee was rounded down to £500, this equated to a 
reduction of over 10%. So, Mr S hasnt suffered any financial impact or loss because of this 
action.
In June 2019 FTR sent Mr S details of an offer from L, which hed already received. FTR 
has explained that the information was generated when Mr S account was taken off hold.
Mr S said he was upset when he later found that this was a duplicate as his financial 
situation would have welcomed further compensation. And it could have led him to use the 
expected compensation before receiving it.  While I think this would have been upsetting, I 
can see that the offer was clarified within a few days. And the notification said FTRs fee for 
this offer was £500, which I think showed its connection to the successful claim Mr S already 
had with L. 
The agreement Mr S had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. FTR charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, FTRs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Mr S claim with L 
was successful and so FTR asked Mr S to pay their success fee. 
Mr S is unhappy about FTRs attempts to recover their success fee, as in the main they used 
an automated dialler process which meant Mr S received a number of calls. I know this is a 
process Mr S feels strongly about, but as mentioned previously its not our role to instruct 
business to change their processes. As Mr S had raised his concerns with FTR, I think he would have found any attempts to 
collect the fee as unwanted and unacceptable. But Mr S claim was successful, so FTR  
were entitled to charge their fee so I dont think FTR were acting unfairly or unreasonably in 
attempting to collect it. And Mr S hasnt said he couldnt pay the fee only that he wanted his 
concerns addressed before hed make the payment.
I can see from FTRs records that they put collection of the fee on hold to give Mr S time to 
review information sent to him. And for his complaint with this service to be considered. But I 
can see Mr S was also told, incorrectly that his account couldnt be put on hold when it could 
have been. FTR has apologised for the conflicting information that was given to Mr S and 
took steps to correct their error, which is what Id have expected them to do. 
Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont think FTR has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in their actions with him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman