DRN-1038054
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with how long it took The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) to respond to her request for breakdown assistance. 
NFU are the insurer for the breakdown assistance section of Mrs H's car insurance policy. 
References to NFU include the acts or omissions of agents acting on their behalf. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs H was driving with her family when her car got a flat tyre. She phoned 
NFU for breakdown assistance, and they told her it would take 45 minutes for their repairer 
to reach her. Mrs H explained she was on a busy road with two young children. She thought 
they should be able to promise assistance within 20 to 30 minutes. NFU said they could 
never guarantee the response time. They also checked that Mrs H and her family were in a 
safe location away from the car. 
It took the repairer around 55 minutes to reach Mrs H. She wasn't happy with this, so raised 
a complaint. NFU acknowledged that theyd arrived a few minutes later than estimated and 
apologised for this. But they maintained that the timeframe wasn't guaranteed. 
Mrs H asked our service to review her complaint. She was unhappy that NFU had taken 
longer than estimated, and also thought they should have been able to promise a response 
within 30 minutes. Our investigator thought NFU had acted fairly. He didnt think they were 
obliged to provide assistance within 30 minutes. And although theyd arrived later than 
estimated, he didn't think this warranted compensation as the timeframe hadn't been 
guaranteed and the estimate had only been out by 10 minutes.
Mrs H thought the investigator's outcome was unsatisfactorybut adduced no new evidence 
or arguments to show why. Nevertheless, her case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reachedand for largely the same reasons.
I've reviewed the breakdown assistance section of Mrs H's policy, and the terms and 
conditions don't say how long a call-out will take. As there's no contractually-guaranteed 
timeframe, Ive simply considered whether NFUs response time was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mrs H thinks NFU should have provided assistance within 20-30 minutes. But I consider 
what she was told in the callthat it would take 45 minutesto be a more reasonable 
'benchmark' for how long it should have taken. There will be varying factors beyond the 
reasonable control of any insurer (such as traffic conditions, the location/availability of the 
repairer, the weather etc.) that affect how long a call-out will take. I consider it prudent that 
NFU gave a realistic estimate based on conditions at the time. Taking into account Mrs Hs situation, the 45-minute estimate seems reasonable and in line with normal industry practice 
(based on our knowledge of similar cases). 
NFU did take longer than 45 minutes to reach Mrs H. The call-out request was logged on 
their system at 11.14amand their records show the repairer arrived at 12.08pm. However, 
I'm satisfied that NFU made it clear to Mrs H that the timeframe wasn't guaranteed. The 45-
minute estimate was, by definition, approximate. And the repairer arrived only nine minutes 
laterwhich I regard as within an acceptable margin of error for a service that's hard to 
predict and susceptible to external factors. I dont consider that a failing by NFU.
I do appreciate that the situation was upsetting for Mrs H, as she was left waiting for almost 
an hour with two young children. But Im satisfied that NFUs response time and service was 
reasonable in all the circumstances; within the terms and conditions of the insurance 
contract; and broadly in line with what they told her during the call. So Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  
I note this is the second complaint weve received from Mrs H about NFUs call-out time. I 
consider the circumstances of this complaint sufficiently different to her last complaint
which is why weve looked into it separately. But I do want to manage Mrs Hs expectations, 
as this will be the second decision weve issued explaining that her NFU breakdown 
assistance cover doesn't guarantee a call-out within 30 minutes. If we receive future 
complaints driven by this concern, well need to consider whether, as a public service with 
large demands on limited resources,  its appropriate for us to look into them.
Ultimately, if Mrs H isn't satisfied with NFU's service, she is free to shop around to see 
whether a different insurer can guarantee response times of 20-30 minutes. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not an industry regulator that can set business standards or dictate 
how they operate on a day-to-day basis. So, investigating such complaintsonce we've 
already explained the situation to someoneisn't an effective use of our primary statutory 
function to resolve individual disputes. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman