DRN-4069455
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to complete an international transfer of 
money from her account and failed to recall the funds.
What happened
Mrs W attended her local branch of Barclays on 6 December 2022 with her son. She wanted 
to transfer £1,300 to her sons business account where he lived abroad. She has told us that 
her son required the payments to be made in USD (US dollars). However the transfer was 
made in local currency and, because her sons bank (the beneficiary bank) could not receive 
payments of that currency type, it didn't reach his business account.
Mrs W then made around 11 calls to Barclays over the period 20 December 2022 to 
21 February 2023. In those calls she was continually trying to find out what had happened to 
her money. Barclays confirmed that the transfer had gone through and it appeared to have 
been received by the correspondent (intermediary) bank in the country where her son lived. 
Barclays then made a number of attempts to recall the funds but was unsuccessful. It 
suggested that her son try to find out what happened to the funds from the beneficiary bank. 
But it appears that this was also unsuccessful. The beneficiary bank said it wasn't possible 
to trace payments received in the local currency as it worked in USDs.
Mrs W felt that Barclays had made an error, because she had handed to the bank adviser in 
the branch her son's mobile phone which contained the full details of the address, sort and 
account codes and international codes and specified it was to be paid in USD. She 
complained that she had had to spend a lot of time in telephone calls to Barclays and often 
had been put on hold or had to wait in a call queue for long periods.
Barclays pointed out to Mrs W that she had signed and initialled the form setting out her  
transfer instructions which would have been gone through by its adviser. It pointed out that 
the details she had given it specified that the account was a local currency account and that 
was why the payment was made in the local currency. So although it had made a number of 
attempts to recall the funds, it did not agree that it had made an error.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that Barclays could 
have kept Mrs W better informed and could have explained the process of sending an 
international payment better. She proposed that Barclays pay Mrs W £150 for her distress 
and inconvenience. However she thought that Barclays had done all it could to chase up the 
transfer and to attempt to recall funds and did not think it had made an error in respect of 
complying with Mrs W 's instructions.
Barclays said it had nothing further to add.
Mrs W did not agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
transfer of funds
Mrs W attended the branch of Barclays with her son in December 2022. I understand that he 
provided the account details on his mobile phone for his mother to pass to the adviser. He 
also said he made it clear to the adviser that the payment would be made in USD. 
Unfortunately we do not have a statement directly from the adviser who I understand no 
longer works for Barclays. However the transfer instructions on Mrs Ws sons mobile phone 
which I understand was provided to the adviser was headed wiring transfer instructions in 
USD but it also set out that the receiving account was a local currency account.
I've also seen the document headed Customer Confirmation. At the top of that document 
the following information is set out:
Amounts to be sent: 1,300.00 [local currency]
Currency to be sent in: [local currency].
Mrs W signed her initials next to that, and also next to her details, the beneficiary details and 
the charges. She says that the document was faint and in the small space and the light in 
the bank and the rush of people in the queue behind her she was in a rush to get the transfer 
done. She says the adviser was also in a rush and didn't listen to what she said. She further 
points out that she could not be expected to know the international code for the local 
currency in question.
I wouldnt expect most people to know the international code for this particular currency. But 
the customer confirmation document I've referred to set out the name of the currency in full. 
I recognise that Mrs W is elderly, although she didn't highlight any difficulty she, as an older 
person might have, to the adviser. Nevertheless I would have expected the adviser to go 
through the main points of the transfer with her. But as I've said we do not have a statement 
directly from the adviser in question. Although we do have a statement from another adviser 
who says that she knows that the adviser in question did go through the form in detail with 
Mrs W. And we know Mrs W signed against key parts of the form, which indicates her 
attention was likely drawn specifically to those parts.
I note that Mrs W was with her son, who was receiving the transfer and who had as Ive said 
provided the transfer details. I don't think it would be unreasonable to have expected him to 
go through the details of the transfer document his mother was being asked to sign. 
I understand that she had previously had a problem with a transfer to the same account 
which bounced back (albeit for different reasons). 
So I don't think that Barclays made an error in carrying out Mrs W 's instructions.
But if it could be said that it made an error I have to decide whether it would have been 
reasonably foreseeable that there would be problems in receiving the money in local 
currency rather than USD. All I can say is that the account into which the money was to be 
paid appeared to be a local currency account so in that event I dont think its likely that 
Barclays could reasonably have foreseen that there would be problems in sending payments 
in the local currency.
I still would have expected Barclays to take reasonable steps to trace Mrs Ws payment and, 
where possible, recover the funds for her. I see that Barclays chased up the correspondent 
bank and made four separate requests to get the payment recalled. Unfortunately it was not 
successful. The correspondent bank was not directly related to Barclays, rather it is related to the receiving bank. So whilst I would have expected the correspondent bank to take steps 
to trace the payment, I can't say that Barclays was responsible for any failure on the part of 
the correspondent bank. And it does appear that according to Mrs Ws sons enquiries, that 
bank has so far been unable to trace the payment. Unfortunately the correspondent and 
beneficiary banks dont come under the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction.
customer service
As I've set out above, Mrs W had to spend a lot of time on the phone to Barclays over the 
period 20 December 2022 to 21 February 2023. Apart from last two calls, when she 
registered her complaint and then had the outcome of that complaint explained to her, the 
calls were mainly about trying to find out what happened to her money. And I can 
understand that it would have been very frustrating for her to have to explain her case to 
different advisers on each occasion. The advisers were polite and respectful and did their 
best to try and help her, but she was left with having to call back each time without any 
indication off what Barclays was doing or any time frame. I think Barclays could have kept 
her up to date particularly as I've noted that it did take substantial steps to try and trace and 
then recall her money. I note that on several occasions she also had to wait a long time to be 
put through. Whilst I understand that Barclays wasnt responsible for how long customers 
reasonably had to wait in its call queues, I do think that if she had been kept better informed 
Mrs W might not have had to spend so long on the phone chasing matters up.
I note also that Mrs W tried to get the case dealt with in her local branch and was 
encouraged to believe the branch would be able to sort it out for her, but the visits were 
fruitless. Whilst I have no details of what happened on these visits, I dont doubt that the 
branch advisers tried to help Mrs W. Nevertheless she still had to spend a lot of time with 
them, with no result.
For the reasons Ive set out, I do think that the £150 proposed by our Investigator is a fair 
and reasonable payment to make for Mrs W's distress and inconvenience in the course of 
those telephone calls/visits.
overall
Regrettably, and recognising that Mrs W will be disappointed, I cant find that Barclays made 
any error in making the transfer of funds on her instructions. Nor can I find that it would have 
been reasonably foreseeable that its not carrying out the transfer in USD would have 
resulted in the problems that she had. If her son has not been able to get the payment traced 
at his end I can only suggest that he persist. I know (from listening to the calls in this case) 
that banks in the region where he lives can be very slow.
I recognised that to a certain extent Barclays didn't communicate with Mrs W effectively and 
it is for that fair reason I propose to require it to pay the £150 pounds compensation 
proposed by our Investigator. I note that Barclays has no objection to do this.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mrs W £150 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to provide the remedy set 
out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023. 
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman