DRN-3859648
The complaint
Mrs H, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry 
out proportionate affordability checks before it lent to her.
What happened
Mrs H was advanced five home collected loans between June 2018 and November 2020.
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 08/06/2018 11/01/2019 33 £10.00
2 £300.00 17/01/2019 27/08/2019 33 £15.00
3 £200.00 04/12/2019 10/04/2020 22 £14.00
4 £300.00 10/04/2020 17/11/2020 34 £15.00
5 £210.00 17/11/2020 25/06/2021 34 £10.50
Following Mrs Hs complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt
going to uphold the complaint. Mrs Hs then referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision
to provide loans 1  4 so these loans werent upheld. But he thought the lending was now
harmful for Mrs H by the time loan 5 was granted and so this loan was upheld.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its
comments below.
There was a three-month break between loans 2 and 3. And upon Mrs H returning for
further loans, Morses treated Mrs H as if she were a new customer and carried out a
new credit search.
Loan 5 was for a smaller sum than loan 4 and due to a change in term, the weekly
commitment for loan 5, was the smallest in what Morses says is the second chain of
loan.
Adequate checks were completed before loan 5 was approved, which showed Mrs H 
could afford the repayments she was committed to making.
Mrs Hs representative confirmed receipt of the outcome reached by the adjudicator but no
further comments were provided.
The case was then passed to an ombudsman. I proceeded to issue a provisional decision 
explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. A copy of the 
provisional findings follows this in a smaller font, and it forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs H could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Mrs Hs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs H. These factors include:
Mrs H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs H.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs H could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs H was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Hs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mrs H (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the
adjudicator reached about loans 1  4. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute.
I would add, that like the adjudicator, I do agree Morses made a reasonable decision to
provide these loans. So, I say no more about these loans.
Loan 5
The adjudicator upheld this loan because in his view the lending was now harmful for
Mrs H.
Morses thought, that loan 3 shouldve have been the start of a new chain of lending because
there was around a three-month gap between loan 2 being repaid and when loan 3 was
granted. I dont agree that the three-month gap was sufficient, in this case, for Morses to
have been treated Mrs H as if she were a new customer. But whether I can consider the gap
big enough, or not, has no bearing on the outcome that Im intending to reach. I would add
that I have considered the gap, in the context of the overall lending relationship.
I accept that a new credit search was carried out, when loan 3 was granted, I have reviewedthis and there isnt anything in there that wouldve given Morses cause for concern. For
example, there are no defaulted accounts or another adverse information.
I also accept, that Mrs H had been indebted with Morses for around 2 years (this is the time
in debt and excludes the three-month gap) by the time this loan was advanced  and she
was further committing to be indebted for an additional 34 weeks. This, in some situations
could be a sign that she was now reliant on the borrowing or at the very least having longer
term money management problems.
However, the lending wasnt always increasing in value and there didnt appear to have been
any previous repayment problems in servicing her previous loans. Indeed, due to the term of
the loan, Mrs Hs weekly commitment was the smallest amount since loan 1.
Taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised this loan
was unsustainable for Mrs H and so I am intending to conclude the loan wasnt likely to be
so harmful that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to her. But that doesnt
mean Morses did all it shouldve done before advancing the loan.
I do think the overall time in debt and Mrs H returned for another loan on the same day a
previous loan had been repaid, ought to have alerted Morses to the possibility that Mrs H
may have been having some financial problems which was leading her to have a continued
need for credit.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mrs H declared to it
about her income and expenditure even though this information suggested Mrs H could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mrs Hs actual financial position to
ensure the loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of her outgoings or looking at bank statements and/or Mrs Hs full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Mrs Hs financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve
likely discovered that Mrs H couldnt afford it.
Mrs Hs representative hasnt provided a copy of her credit file or her bank statements
covering the period leading up to loan 5 being advanced. Without anything further, I cant be
sure, what Morses may have seen had it carried out better checks. This means, I cant fairly
uphold the complaint about this loan.
Although Morses didnt, in my view carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude
that further checks wouldve led it to conclude that loan 5 shouldnt have been granted.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mrs H and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration in response 
to the provisional decision as soon as possible, but in any event no later than 
15 December 2022. 
Morses told the Financial Ombudsman Service that it accepted the findings of the provisional 
decision.
Mrs Hs representative let us know it had received the provisional decision and it had 
arranged to forward it on to Mrs H. But to date, no further comments or evidence has been 
provided.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has anything further for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I made in the provisional decision. 
I still dont think Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check before it 
advanced loan five. But I dont know what Morses may have seen had it carried out better 
checks. Therefore, Im not in a position to be able to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman