DRN-2238315
The complaint
Mr A and Ms K are unhappy with the way Millennium Insurance Company Ltd (MIC) handled 
their claim following a break-in at their home.
 
What happened
Mr A and Ms K had buildings and contents insurance with MIC. The policy was in joint 
names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr A throughout my decision.
Mr A claimed under both his buildings and contents insurance following a break-in at his 
home. MIC sent a loss adjuster (LA) to inspect the damage and report on the value of loss. 
Mr A says the LA spent several hours at his home, and took many photos but, since then, Mr 
A has struggled to get payment for the buildings and contents.
MIC says some of the delay is due to Mr As lack of availability, and it needs to complete a 
second LA visit to properly determine the loss.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. She thought the LA hadnt completed a thorough 
inspection, which had caused some of the delay settling the claim. Our investigator 
explained that our service couldnt decide the claim on MICs behalf, but she thought it 
should pay Mr A £200 by way of apology for the poor handling of the claim, and send 
another LA to assess the value of loss.
Mr A didnt disagree, but he asked for a further review.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator and Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, Id like to explain that there is a lot of documentation supporting each side of this 
complaint. However, I wont discuss each piece here because a lot of the information doesnt 
impact the key issue, which seems to be relatively straightforward.
Mr As claim was for damage caused by the burglar while gaining entry to his home, and for 
theft of, or damage to, various household and valuable items. Although MIC appointed a LA, 
it seems that the photos and report didnt adequately describe the loss. MIC hasnt disputed 
this, although it says a full assessment isnt always carried out during the first visit.
Under the policy, it is Mr As responsibility to show that he suffered an insured loss. Im not 
aware that MIC is disputing what happened, but it has questioned the value of the claim. 
Thats because the claim is approaching the full insured amount for contents, suggesting the 
theft and damage had affected nearly all of Mr As household possessions. For this reason, 
MIC wants its LA to carry out a further visit and for Mr A to provide evidence of his loss.
The policy states:
 
You must provide evidence of value and age for all of the items involved in a claim.
And, 
Any claims for loss will be subject to evidence of ownership and value, therefore you should 
keep all purchase receipts, valuations and photographs which will help support your claim.
Given the sum claimed, I think its fair that MIC asks for a further LA visit, and evidence of 
the loss in line with the terms of the policy. However, the burglary happened over three years 
ago, and the LA appointment hasnt yet been agreed with Mr A. And I havent seen anything 
to indicate that Mr A has provided MIC with evidence of ownership for all items claimed for.
With the passage of time, I appreciate that some aspects of the claim will be more difficult to 
evidence, and I think both parties are responsible to some degree for the failure to facilitate 
the LA visit. I understand Mr A has a very demanding job limiting his availability, but I think 
MIC couldve done more to arrange an appointment, particularly as it missed one for which 
Mr A was available. I also think a more detailed report and photos during the first visit 
couldve prevented the need for a further appointment. 
Considering these shortfalls and the lengthy delay, Im satisfied that compensation of £200 is 
warranted.
I understand Mr A doesnt think £200 is enough given the hourly rate of consultants, nor 
does he think it adequately penalises MIC. The compensation isnt intended to cover the 
cost of time or punish the business  it is a token sum in recognition of the inconvenience he 
experienced. MIC will still need to assess his claim in line with the terms of the policy which 
will address the broader issue of his complaint.
Mr A is concerned that MIC wont progress his claim once our involvement is over, and he is 
dissatisfied with its standard of complaint handling. Neither of these are issues I can 
address. I understand Mr A is aware that complaint handling is not a regulated activity and, 
therefore, it is not within my remit. And I cant make a requirement of MIC for something 
which Mr A thinks will or wont happen. 
Putting things right
In summary, the evidence indicates that MIC didnt handle Mr As claim adequately and I 
think its reasonable for it to appoint a Loss Adjuster to visit Mr A and complete a full report in 
order to progress the claim. Its fair that MIC asks Mr A for evidence of ownership so, once 
the visit is completed, it will be able to handle the claim in line with the terms of the policy.
Given the delays in handling this claim, the missed appointment, and the failure to complete 
an adequate claims report in the first instance, I think its reasonable to ask MIC to pay £200 
compensation to Mr A by way of apology. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Millennium 
Insurance Company Ltd should:visit Mr A to investigate his claim for theft and damage caused during the burglary, 
and
pay him £200 by way of apology for the shortfalls in service identified here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman