DRN-3683696
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the handling of his claim by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) 
under home emergency cover contained within a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P made a claim under his home emergency cover when a pipe on his kitchen radiator 
started leaking. An engineer appointed by IPA attended his home. Mr P says that the 
engineer was there around 30 minutes, cutting off the pipes on either side of the radiator and 
capping them off. Mr P suggested to the engineer that by leaving the radiator unconnected, 
he had only completed half the required job. He says that in response, the engineer said that 
he had limited time and had other jobs to attend.
Unhappy with the way that the claim had been dealt with, Mr P told IPA that the engineer 
could have reconnected the radiator, but didnt do so because it would have involved 
draining the system, which could have taken 1-2 hours. Mr P commented that part of the 
system had in fact already been drained, to allow the engineer to cut the pipes and cap 
them. Mr Ps view was that a permanent repair could have been carried out within the home 
emergency policy limits.
IPA responded that by carrying out a temporary repair to fix the emergency, it had dealt with 
the claim in line with the policy terms.
Mr P was unhappy with IPAs stance and brought a complaint to this service. He said that he 
had been left in a worse situation as a result of IPAs handling of the claim, because he now 
needed to cover the cost of another plumber to complete a permanent repair. Mr P pointed 
out that he had been left with no heating in his kitchen. He was also unhappy with the 
customer service IPA had provided in respect of the claim.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Her view was that, in arranging a temporary 
repair for the leaking radiator, IPA had dealt with the claim in accordance with the policy 
conditions. She also considered the customer service that IPA had given Mr P to have been 
have of a reasonable standard.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators findings. He has commented that IPAs engineer 
should have reconnected the radiator because it was the most obvious repair to carry out in 
the circumstances. Mr P has highlighted that carrying out actions necessary for a temporary 
repair can, on occasions, lead to a permanent fix for a problem. Noting that the engineer had 
already drained parts of the system, Mr P says that once the pipes were cut, there were two 
options available  to cap the pipes, or reconnect them. In his view, by choosing the first of 
these, the engineer chose the option which was most convenient for him (in terms of time), 
and for IPA. But Mr P considers that reconnecting the pipes would have been possible to do 
within the limits of the home emergency cover, and would have been the correct course of 
action for the engineer to take.
In relation to comments made by the engineer about the work he carried out, Mr P does not 
agree that reconnecting the radiator might have caused other issues to have emerged with 
the heating system. He reiterated that the temporary repair carried out left him with 
additional expense to arrange a permanent repair, with a total outlay for him that is higher 
than if he had used a private company to arrange the repairs at outset. Mr P also considers 
that the report provided by the engineer omits details of the conversation they had, including 
the engineers comments that he did not have time to connect the pipes due to the amount 
of work he had to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cover provided by IPA is for emergencies in the home. These are defined as sudden 
and unforeseen incidents that, amongst other things, create a risk of loss or damage to the 
home. Leaking radiator pipes fall within the policy coverage.
Mr P considers that IPA unfairly dealt with his claim by carrying out a temporary repair when 
a permanent repair was possible, and in his view was achievable within the policy limits. He 
says the reason a permanent repair wasnt carried out was due to time pressure on the 
engineer, and because it was more convenient for IPA to only put in place a temporary fix.
The policy wording states that IPA will pay up to £500 per claim to carry out an emergency 
repair. An emergency repair is defined as work that resolves the emergency through a 
temporary repair. A temporary repair is also defined, as being work that stops further 
damage being caused by the emergency. The policy states that the policyholder will need to 
replace this with a permanent repair. It also confirms that when a repair is made, it will leave 
the home safe and habitable, but that IPA is not responsible for reinstating to the original 
condition.
In my view, the policy only provides for a temporary repair when dealing with an emergency 
situation. My understanding of Mr Ps position is that he doesnt dispute that the policy 
wording confirms this. However, he considers that depending on the circumstances of the 
work that needs to be done, it might be appropriate for IPA to complete a permanent repair. 
And I take his point that a temporary repair has the potential to result in a permanent fixing of 
the situation. I need to consider whether in the circumstances of this claim, IPA acted 
reasonably by cutting off and putting a cap on the pipes to the kitchen radiator, rather than 
reconnecting the pipes.
There is limited expert evidence relating to the situation surrounding the claim. However, the 
attending engineer provided a short report regarding the events that occurred when he 
visited Mr Ps home.  He commented that hed drained the radiator and isolated the leak, 
and that the pipework would need to be changed. In terms of replacing the pipework, the 
engineers estimate was that this would take two hours, but he also stated there was a 
chance there will be secondary issues.
Mr P disputes that reconnecting the radiator might have caused other issues. I also note his 
comments that the engineers report doesnt include all the details of the conversation they 
had, in particular in relation to time pressures that Mr P says the engineer explained he was 
under. But I am mindful that the home emergency cover Mr P had was of limited scope, and 
in my view was principally intended to stop the emergency  in this case the leak  that had 
occurred.
I cannot determine with any certainty how long a permanent repair of the radiator, through 
reconnecting the pipes, would have taken. But from the engineers recorded comments, it seems on balance that there was the possibility that reconnecting the pipes might have led 
to further work being required in order to leave the heating system fully operational.
I have carefully considered the comments Mr P has made regarding the decision of IPA to 
resolve his claim via a temporary repair. I appreciate that he considers a permanent repair 
was achievable for a cost within the policy limit, and he feels he has been left in a position 
that is worse than if hed employed a private contractor to stop the leak and reinstate the 
affected radiator. But overall, taking into account the cover provided by the policy, and the 
comments made by the engineer regarding secondary issues that might emerge following an 
attempted permanent repair, my view is that IPA acted fairly in its handling of the claim. The 
temporary repair was in line with the policy terms and stopped the leak occurring, albeit I 
appreciate that the kitchen radiator was no longer heating the home.
For these reasons, although I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed with my findings, I do not 
consider it would be reasonable for me to require IPA to carry out any further actions in 
relation to the claim made. I would also agree with the investigator that in handling the claim 
and dealing with Mr Ps concerns, IPA provided appropriate levels of customer service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022. 
John Swain
Ombudsman