DRN-3165914
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Starling Bank Limited hasnt refunded him £20,000 he lost after falling 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr T moved his banking via the interbank system to Starling. On 23 August 
2020, Mr T says he received a call from someone claiming to be from the fraud department 
at Starling. The call came from a withheld number, so Mr T asked the caller to verify himself. 
Mr T says the caller confirmed Mr Ts correct account number, sort code and his mothers 
maiden name.
Mr T has since confirmed that he hadnt previously disclosed his mothers maiden name to 
Starling, but his previous bank did have this information - so he thought it was passed over 
to Starling, along with the rest of his banking information. Mr T also said that it was such a 
normal security question he didnt think it wasnt unusual that the caller, claiming to be from 
Starling, knew it.
The caller told Mr T there was some unusual activity on his bank account. Mr T checked his 
online banking and saw a transaction he didnt recognise. The caller explained that hed 
noticed this unusual transaction and managed to stop two other transactions.
Mr T was satisfied he was speaking to someone legitimate from Starling at this point. The
caller said he would cancel Mr Ts existing card and send out a new one. The replacement
card arrived a few days later and was activated by Mr T on 1 September 2020. Mr T is
confident he didnt order this replacement card, as he didnt know how to at this point. 
About a week later, Mr T received another call from the same individual. The caller informed 
him that it wasnt just his card that had been compromised, it was his actual account. The 
caller asked Mr T whether he was due to have any large payments credited to his account. 
Mr T confirmed that he was expecting £20,000.00. The caller told Mr T he would
set up a new account before the payment was due to credit the account.
On 9 September 2020, £20,407.33 and £126.37 credited Mr Ts account. On the same day,
the same individual called Mr T again to advise that he now needed to transfer £10,000.00 to
his new account. This account was in Mr Ts name. The caller told Mr T that his account 
daily limit was £10,000.00, so hed need to transfer the remaining £10,000.00 separately. 
Both transactions went to the same account and Mr T said no errors appeared to say the 
payee didnt match the account.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the 
Code). This is a voluntary scheme Starling has signed up to, designed to reimburse 
customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a 
customer to be refunded. Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a 
customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Starling issued its final response on Mr Ts complaint. It explained it was unable to refund his 
money. It said it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place and felt Mrs B did not 
make sufficient checks before making the payment. 
Starling contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money Mr T paid but none 
remained.
Our investigator looked into things and recommended the complaint be upheld. She found 
Mr T had met his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In summary, she said:
Starling hadnt provided effective warnings. The warnings werent specific to the 
scam Mr T fell victim to so even if hed seen these warnings, he wouldnt have 
related it to his circumstances.  The warning didnt explain the consequences of 
proceeding with the payment.
She didnt think Starling had been able to establish that Mr T didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment was legitimate. She thought it was 
reasonable in the circumstances for Mr T to think he was dealing with someone from 
his bank.
She said Starling ought to have fully reimbursed Mr T at the time he made his claim. 
She recommended that Starling should refund his loss in order to settle the complaint 
together with interest on the refund at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date the 
claim was declined under the code to the date of settlement.
Starling didnt agree. In summary it said:
Enhanced effective warnings were given.
The customer has 33 years experience in financial services - being familiar with the 
industry, he could have done more to protect himself
The scammer impersonated a Starling employee, but the customer received a call 
from a withheld number  he should have questioned this but no follow up was made.
Despite the scammer knowing (for verification) the customer account number, sort 
code and maiden name, the number was not spoofed - it was a withheld/unknown 
number.
The "safe account" did not have a Starling sort code.
The customer was told that his daily faster payment limit was £10,000.00 and that the 
scammer would call again the next day to complete sending the funds. If an account 
was compromised, immediate and urgent action would have been needed - one 
wouldn't leave £10,000.00 in the account until the next day.Mr T was told that he would be getting a "premium" account which isnt a product or 
service Starling offers.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Having considered this, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Starling should have refunded the money Mr T 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Starling should fairly and reasonably refund 100% of the money Mr T lost.
The money was taken from Mr Ts current account. Its not clear how Mr T would 
have used the money, if Starling had intervened, so Starling should also pay interest 
at the rate of 8% on the money from the date the claim was declined to the date of 
settlement.
I have carefully considered Starlings representations about the warnings it gave and 
whether Mr T had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But it has 
not persuaded me to reach a different view.  I am not persuaded that Mr T failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for it to choose not to reimburse him under the terms of the 
CRM Code. And, for completeness, Im also satisfied that Mr T did not act with gross 
negligence.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met for the following reasons. 
Mr T doesnt recall being provided with any warnings about the possibility of a scam when 
making the transfers. Starling says the customer would have been presented with a fraud 
warning at the time he set up the payee details. It says the customer acknowledged the 
fraud warning and continued to proceed with the transaction. 
Because Mr T selected the invoice/billing option to make the payment, according to 
Starlings records, there was a second enhanced warning which it says wouldve looked like 
this:
Invoice/Bill Warning:
Fraudsters can take over email addresses or call from seemingly reputable numbers, posing 
as genuine organisations. 
Have you been asked to make an unexpected payment to a new account?Have you been told that the account details for payment have been changed recently?
Check any unexpected or amended instructions via a trusted channel that is separate from 
the one that they used to contact you.
HMRC scams are common, and fraudsters have used the current Covid-19 pandemic as an 
opportunity to target people, posing as HMRC via SMS or email. Contact HMRC directly via 
the contact information on their website or log in to their online services if you have been 
contacted by them. Visit the website to learn more about how to protect yourself from fraud. 
Ive considered Starlings records, I think its more likely than not that these warnings were 
given  albeit that Mr T does now not recall seeing these. So, Ive gone on to consider 
whether these warnings were effective.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, an effective warning must have been (as a 
minimum) understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. Beyond these minimum 
requirements, an effective warning must provide information that gives customers a better 
chance to protect themselves against being defrauded  otherwise it could not have been an 
effective warning. I dont consider either warnings here constitute an effective warning for 
the following reasons:
I dont think the earlier warning was impactful or specific enough. The payee warning refers 
the customer to the website. But the warning on the website wasnt directly in front of Mr T to 
have the intended impact in the moment of the scam.
Turning to the enhanced warning, Mr T cant recall why he selected the invoice/bill option. 
Its possible he was guided by the fraudsters to select that option or he thinks it may have 
been a default option from the last time he had to make such a selection. The enhanced 
warning which Mr T would have seen at this point does say fraudsters can callposing as 
genuine organisations and it does ask the question have you been asked to make an 
unexpected payment to a new account? And it does say to check any unexpected 
instructions via a separate trusted channel to the one used to contact them. But it doesnt 
specifically warn against safe account scams or explain how to spot a safe account scam. It 
doesnt bring to life what this type of scam looks like, so Im not persuaded the warning is 
impactful or specific enough to resonate with Mr T. In addition, the warning didnt give any 
explanation as to the consequences of Mr T proceeding with the payment.
For these reasons Im not persuaded Mr T ignored an effective warning by failing to take 
appropriate action in response to Starlings warnings.
Im also satisfied that Starling has not shown that Mr T lacked a reasonable basis of belief. I 
say this for the following reasons:
Mr T did recognise the call was from a withheld number and attempted the verify the caller 
was genuine. When asked, the scammer knew Mr Ts bank details and mothers maiden 
name. Mr T hadnt disclosed his bank details to anyone. His mothers maiden name was not 
a detail Mr T thought anyone, other than his bank, would know. I appreciate that Starling 
didnt hold this specific piece of information, but Mr T didnt realise this at the time and it was 
information his previous bank held. Therefore, this gave him reassurance he was speaking 
with his bank. 
The caller told Mr T there had been fraudulent activity on his account, and when Mr T looked 
he did see a transaction he didnt recognise. This gave the bank official credibility as he 
seemed to be aware of the activity on Mr Ts account. This enabled the scammer to build trust with Mr T.
The caller told Mr T that he would arrange a replacement card to be sent out. There is some 
dispute about this, but Mr T is certain that he didnt order this card himself as he didnt know 
how to at the time. The replacement card arrived a few days later. Even if the scammer 
somehow tricked Mr T in to ordering the replacement card, Mr T was, and still is, under the 
impression that the caller arranged for the new card to be issued. This further convinced him 
the caller was a genuine bank official.
Starling has indicated that Mr T should have picked up on the sort code for the payments 
belonging to a different bank. But I think the banks expectations here are too high. Mr T was 
in a stressful situation. In that moment, I dont think it would be reasonable to have expected 
him to notice the subtle differences in the sort code. Mr T works for a wealth management 
company, but I dont think that means he has detailed knowledge or experience of the 
banking system or necessarily knew how sort codes work. Mr T told us hes not involved in 
banking or transferring money other than investments being made to his company. He told 
us his area of financial services expertise does not cover online banking. So, I dont think he 
would necessarily know how this particular scam worked or be aware of Starlings full range 
of banking products in order to appreciate that Starling didnt offer a premium account. Im 
satisfied that if he had been aware, he wouldnt have proceeded.
Starling says that Mr T doesnt have a reasonable basis for belief because if an account was 
compromised, immediate and urgent action would have been needed and he wouldn't leave 
£10,000.00 in the account until the next day. But Mr T was convinced that if he didnt make 
the payment, he would lose his savings. This was of course a deliberate tactic by the 
fraudster/s to create fear  in the hope it would disrupt Mr Ts thinking and make him more 
compliant. On balance, Im satisfied this happened here to Mr T and that in all the 
circumstances, his response was not unreasonable. I am persuaded that Mrs T genuinely 
thought he was moving the money to another account that he would hold and control.
In reaching this decision, Ive considered the scene that was set by the fraudster for Mr T 
and the impact I believe this reasonably had on his thoughts and actions. Im also persuaded 
by what Mr T has told this service about how this scam happened. His recollections are 
consistent with what he told Starling when he reported the scam and with what other victims 
of scams of this nature have described.
Overall, Im not persuaded Starling has shown that Mr T made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payment was legitimate, and Im satisfied he wasnt 
grossly negligent for broadly the same reasons.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided that Mr T ought reasonably to have been fully 
refunded under the CRM Code. I therefore direct Starling Bank Limited to pay him: 
All of the money he lost  £20,000  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus 
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) 1. from the date Starling declined Mr Ts claim under the CRM Code to the 
date of settlement; 
1 If Starling is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Mr T a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited and direct it to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman