DRN-3787577
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money it 
lost to a scam.
Mrs M, who is a director of M, brings the complaint on Ms behalf.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 5 October 2022. Ive copied the content of 
that document below.
Mrs M has explained that in October 2021 she received a text message which appeared to 
come from a delivery service, asking Mrs M to make a payment for a delivery. Mrs M has 
explained she provided her details for a credit card held with another banking provider, as 
well as her Lloyds bank account details. Mrs M has explained she was also asked for 
additional information such as her date of birth, which she thought was excessive for a 
parcel redelivery. She therefore rang the parcel company to provide her thoughts, at which 
point she was informed shed been the victim of a scam. 
Mrs M rang her credit card provider immediately to report the scam, but while on the call, 
received another call from an individual purporting to be from Lloyds fraud department. 
Unfortunately, unknown to Mrs M at the time, this individual was in fact a fraudster, who had 
obtained Mrs Ms details through the prior parcel scam.
The fraudster told Mrs M that two attempted payments had been made on her account, 
totalling over £15,000. Mrs M questioned why she hadnt received texts confirming the new 
payees had been set up and was advised that the fraud was probably being committed by 
someone internally at Lloyds. He said this would also explain how the payments were able to 
bypass usual authorisation requirements in place. The fraudster told her that as there 
appeared to be a security breach, he would take her banking account offline. Mrs M then 
received text messages confirming the apparent fraudulent payments made had been 
reversed.
Having already fallen victim to the parcel scam, Mrs M has acknowledged she was anxious 
and so checked the number she was being called and text from online. This confirmed the 
number was Lloyds fraud department, which reassured her she was speaking to a genuine 
advisor.
The fraudster asked if Mrs M would help them catch the individual that was committing fraud 
internally, which she agreed to. The fraudster said he wanted to try and prompt Lloyds to call 
Mrs M, so they could identify who the caller was as this would likely be the individual 
involved in the internal fraud. Mrs M was therefore asked to make a number of test 
payments, to accounts she believed were falsified by Lloyds. Mrs M made the following 
payments from her business account, all within around two hours of each other:
Value of payment Payee number Did Lloyds intervene?
£24,578.12 1 no
£23,740.87 2 no
£24,980.00 3 Yes  phone call between 
Lloyds and Mrs M
£17,500.00 2 no
£16,400.00 2 no
Following these transactions, Mrs M obtained a loan from her personal account under the 
fraudsters instruction and made two further payments, the first from her personal account, 
the second again from her business account. When making the first of these payments, 
Lloyds called Mrs M again to query this. However, it acknowledged there were red flags 
during this call  as at one point Mrs M can be heard saying to the fraudster Youre making 
me really nervous about this because you are telling me what to do, and I have to say, giving 
youre supposed to be Lloyds, it really, really is making me anxious. Lloyds has 
acknowledged that it shouldnt have allowed these payments to be processed and has 
refunded them. 
After each payment from Mrs Ms business account, Mrs M would receive a text message, 
again from Lloyds fraud number, confirming the payment had been reversed, reassuring her 
that these were test payments. Mrs M questioned why she couldnt see these payment 
reversals on her account and was advised it was due to her account having been taken 
offline. Mrs M has also explained when making payments four and five, she questioned who 
to make the payments to, and recalls the fraudster being quite flippant about which account 
to send the money to, again reinforcing her perspective that these were fake accounts she 
was sending funds to.
Lloyds stopped payment three and requested Mrs M call to verify the payment, which she 
did. The fraudster told Mrs M not to disclose the real nature of the transactions and to let 
them listen in to the call, so as to detect who was involved internally. During the call, the 
advisor explained hes going to talk through a bit of scripting, before explaining fraudsters 
can claim to be from the bank, the Police, IT companies and utility companies. The advisor 
then asked the nature of the payment, which Mrs M confirmed was for building work and that 
no one had contacted her and asked her to make these payments. Following some further 
questions, the payment was released.
Mrs M cant recall why she continued making payments after this call  she believes she was 
most likely told to identify whether the internal fraudster was acting alone or as part of a 
team. After making the last payment from her personal account to the fraudster, the line 
went dead. Mrs M called Lloyds back on their fraud department number, at which point she 
realised shed been the victim of a scam and raised a fraud claim.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Lloyds says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case.
Lloyds has said Mrs M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a 
legitimate payment transfer. It doesnt consider she took sufficient care to ensure she was 
speaking to her genuine bank. Lloyds also considers it provided sufficient warnings on its 
calls with Mrs M, but that she ultimately ignored the warnings provided and wasnt truthful 
about the circumstances of the transactions. It did however award £100 in compensation to 
acknowledge it had initially made an incorrect decision on her claim. Lloyds also contacted 
the beneficiary banks of the fraudulent payments and recovered a total of £26,736.83  
meaning her current outstanding losses are £80,462.16. 
Mrs M disagreed with Lloyds review of her claim so brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She considered Mrs 
M ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the call she received and made further checks before making the payments. As Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators opinion, 
the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I intend to uphold it. I am 
satisfied that: 
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Lloyds should have refunded the money M lost.  I 
am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case. 
Lloyds should in any event have intervened after the first payment Mrs M made as 
the payment was unusual and out of character for M. While Lloyds did intervene on 
payment three, I dont think its questioning to protect Mrs M from financial harm went 
far enough. Had further questions been asked, and key features of these scams 
been highlighted to Mrs M, I am satisfied the fraud would have come to light and the 
loss prevented. 
In the circumstances Lloyds should fairly and reasonably refund the money M lost. 
The money was taken from Ms business account. It is not clear how M would have 
used the money if Lloyds had refunded it when it should have done, so Lloyds should 
also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year from 
the date the payments were made, to the date of reimbursement. 
I have carefully considered Lloyds representations about whether Mrs M had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transactions to be genuine and whether the warning it provided was 
effective. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not 
persuaded that Mrs M failed to take the requisite level of care required for Lloyds to choose 
not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. 
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met. Mrs M didnt receive warnings on transactions except for the third, when intervention 
was made via a call. Having listened to the call, while the advisor does mention fraudsters 
impersonating banks, I dont think the call went far enough in explaining the key features of 
these scams  it didnt mention number spoofing, which I think was key here for Mrs M 
believing the fraudster was from Lloyds. It also didnt go into detail about how fraudsters may 
suggest fraud is being committed internally. The warning was also initiated by the advisor 
confirming he was going to go through some scripting, which I think also impacted the 
effectiveness of the message provided, reducing its apparent importance. Overall I dont 
think the warning was specific or impactful enough in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Therefore I dont consider the warning to be effective under the requirements of the CRM 
Code. 
Im also satisfied that Lloyds has not shown that Mrs M lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
when making the transfers because: 
When Mrs M received the call from the fraudster, she had already become aware 
that she had fallen victim to a parcel service scam and was therefore already on alert 
that her details were compromised. I can understand why, in the moment, this led 
Mrs M to be more susceptible to believing her accounts could be at risk. 
Mrs M checked the phone number she was being called from while on the phone to 
the fraudster and saw it was a genuine Lloyds fraud department number. I think its 
important not to underestimate the impact this would have had on Mrs Ms decision making going forwards and why other red flags may have been overlooked, given 
this reassurance she was genuinely speaking to her bank. Mrs M wasnt advised 
throughout this scam that fraudsters can spoof genuine phone numbers. 
Lloyds has suggested Mrs M ought to have done more to check the validity of the 
caller, suggesting Mrs M wasnt provided with details about her account. However its 
common practice for banks to ask their customers to verify themselves at the 
beginning of calls - and not vice versa - due to data protection, so I dont think Mrs M 
acted unreasonably by proceeding without doing so. By this point, Mrs M had been 
called by an individual claiming to be from a banking provider she banks with, 
seemingly from their genuine telephone number and with an apparent awareness of 
what accounts she held with them. I dont think its therefore unreasonable that Mrs 
M accepted from this that she was speaking to her bank. 
Ive thought about the later call Mrs M had with Lloyds when discussing the transfer 
on her personal account, and its clear that by this point, Mrs M was starting to have 
concerns about the legitimacy of the fraudster. Mrs M has explained she doesnt 
recall specifically when she began to have concerns, but theres no evidence to 
suggest she had real doubts when making these first five payments from her 
business account. As Mrs M seems alarmed that the fraudster was telling her what to 
do, and that this call came after Mrs M had been told to apply for a loan, I think its 
more likely than not that these concerns became heightened after these payments on 
her business account had already taken place. I therefore dont think Mrs M made 
the payments listed above in spite of genuine concerns about the legitimacy of the 
call. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that Lloyds has shown Mrs M didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing she was making genuine payments, or that she ignored an effective warning. I 
therefore consider Lloyds should provide a full refund to M of its outstanding losses. 
Ive also considered the compensation award Lloyds made to M to acknowledge the 
mistakes it made during the claims process. As payments were made from Ms account, I 
can only consider the impact Lloyds mistakes has had on M as a business entity, and not 
Mrs M as an individual. Based on the evidence Ive seen I therefore think the £100 already 
awarded by Lloyds is fair compensation to reflect any additional inconvenience this caused 
to M.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is to uphold this complaint and for Lloyds Bank PLC to refund M: 
Its outstanding losses from the scam, totaling £80,462.16. 
8% simple interest on Ms losses, from the date the payments were made until the 
date of settlement.
Both parties have now had the chance to respond to the provisional decision. M accepted 
the decision. Lloyds raised some further points for consideration. To summarise, these were:
The provisional decision set out that an important reason for why this fraud was 
successful was that the fraudsters spoofed Lloyds number and that number spoofing 
was not raised with Mrs M when Lloyds made a call to her, prior to processing her 
third payment. Lloyds has provided two examples of emails its Relationship Manager 
had sent to customers including M prior to the scam, which included relevant 
warnings about fraud.
One, sent in March 2020, explained fraudsters abilities to number spoof, as well as 
send text messages in a similarly spoofed format.Another, sent in October 2020, also provided information on how to protect yourself 
from potential number spoofing scams by, for example, calling a trusted telephone 
number back using a different phone line. Lloyds has argued Mrs M knew to do this, 
as after ending the call with the fraudster, she immediately called Lloyds back on its 
legitimate number.
Lloyds also invited M to a cyber crime fraud seminar in July 2021, although it cant 
confirm if M attended.
Lloyds call handler asked a specific question relating to the scam M fell victim to: If 
youve been asked to do this, please do not proceed. Have you been contacted by 
anyone and been asked to make the payment? Lloyds considers this shouldve been 
a red flag for M and that M ultimately ignored this effective warning. Lloyds doesnt 
consider the provisional decision gives sufficient attention to the fact that Mrs M 
provided untruthful responses to questions, which impacted its ability to provide 
further impactful warnings.
Lloyds requires a further expansion on why the versions of events the fraudster 
conveyed were reasonable. Lloyds emphasised it would never inform customers that 
internal staff were committing fraud, ask customers to use their own accounts to 
entrap fraudsters, or ask them to make payments to other accounts held outside of 
the Bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my overall findings on the case havent changed and Im upholding Ms 
complaint on the same grounds. I have thought about what Lloyds has said since the 
provisional decision, but it doesnt persuade me to reach a different outcome.
In reference to the emails Lloyds had previously sent to M, these were sent around a year or 
more before the scam occurred. The March 2020 email advice was included within a fraud 
brochure around 20 pages long, which listed numerous types of scams being seen, and the 
October 2020 email also covered a number of different scams and ways to protect yourself. 
While its positive to see Lloyds providing proactive fraud advice to its customers, Ive 
considered that these emails were sent a significant period before the scam occurred, were 
in no way tailored to M, but sent to a number of Lloyds customers and covered a number of 
scams within its communication. 
I therefore dont think a customer could be considered as acting unreasonably by not 
following guidance provided within these emails. There was no emphasis or requirement for 
Mrs M to even read these emails and even if I assume she did, I dont think its unreasonable 
that a year later, she didnt recall information contained within them.
I also disagree that Mrs Ms actions after the scam demonstrate she was aware of how to 
protect herself from number spoofing. Mrs M has explained that after making the final scam 
payment, the line with the fraudster went dead, which is why she called the genuine Lloyds 
number back (as this was the number she believed shed been called from). Regardless of 
number spoofing awareness, this would be the action I would have expected most 
customers to have made at this point to re-establish lost contact.
In relation to Mrs M providing untruthful responses to Lloyds questions, I completely 
appreciate that this makes it more difficult for Lloyds to provide an effective warning. 
However, Ive also considered that Lloyds would be aware of the scam M fell victim to and that victims of this scam will usually be told to lie to the bank, due to the internal fraud being 
committed. Therefore its important that when questioning customers to protect them from 
this scam, advisors provide context to its customers on how these types of scams can feel, 
as well as explaining their key hallmarks, to bring these scams to life and break the spell 
the fraudster has already built by this point.
In this case, Ive also considered that Mrs M didnt provide misleading information to Lloyds 
out of carelessness or negligence  she did so under the instruction of the fraudster, who 
had convinced her to trust them in ways Ive set out in my provisional decision. Had Lloyds 
further explained these types of scams, I think its more likely than not that this wouldve 
impacted what Mrs M decided to tell Lloyds, and the level of trust she held with the fraudster.
On Lloyds point about why the fraudsters version of events should be considered 
reasonable, Ive already set out in some detail why I think Mrs M acted reasonably by 
believing what she was told by the fraudster. However to cover Lloyds specific points, I 
appreciate Lloyds is aware that it would never ask its customers to assist on fraud 
investigations as Mrs M was led to believe  and Im sure, in hindsight, Mrs M wouldve also 
seen flaws in the story shed been told  but clearly when Mrs M received this call, she 
wasnt aware of these points Lloyds has raised. Ive also considered that Mrs M wouldve 
been acting against a backdrop of being told her money was at risk, after receiving calls and 
texts from what realistically looked like genuine Lloyds contact. For these reasons I maintain 
my position that Mrs M acted reasonably in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
For these reasons I remain of the view that Lloyds should be held liable for Ms losses, as 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to refund M: 
Its outstanding losses from the scam, totaling £80,462.16. 
8% simple interest on Ms losses, from the date the payments were made until the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman