DRN-4029785
The complaint
Ms G complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was in the garage for repairs for 
many weeks, and the compensation paid for the periods without a car, and the inferior 
courtesy cars provided, isnt enough.  
What happened
Ms G acquired a car through a four year hire purchase agreement with VWFS in February 
2020. The cash price of the car was around £126,000. The car had several electrical faults 
during 2021 and 2022 and spent a total of 24 weeks in the garage. This was nine weeks 
between April and June 2021, eleven weeks between December 2021 and February 2022, 
and another four weeks in March and April 2022.
All the repairs were covered by warranty, but Ms G had around two weeks without a 
courtesy car, and for the other 22 weeks, various cars were supplied as courtesy cars, some 
of which were the same make and sometimes model, and some of which werent. 
Ms G had been given £2,000 compensation by the dealership in question after the first 
period of the car being off the road, and after later complaining to VWFS, they offered her a 
further £500 compensation, as well as extending the standard warranty by a further year. 
 Unhappy with this offer, Ms G brought her complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated and said they felt that the offer was fair. Ms G doesnt agree with this and has 
asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. She has told us that she feels it would be 
fairer to receive a full refund of her payments for the period less the £2,000 already paid. 
She feels that it was an expensive car they were paying for, and as the replacement cars 
arent comparable, the level of compensation isnt fair. She also told us that at some points, 
it was difficult managing the transport of four children. 
Fundamentally, because £2,000 was paid as compensation after the first nine weeks, Ms G 
doesnt agree that its fair that this hasnt been increased considerably for the resulting 
periods, and thinks a further £500 isnt reflective of her circumstances, or equivalent to what 
they received from the dealership for the first period without the car.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint, Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Ms G was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means we can look into 
complaints about it.
Ms Gs husband has represented her to bring the complaint to our service, but I will refer 
only to Ms G for simplicity.
Firstly, I empathise with Ms Gs situation. Its unfortunate that having acquired a high spec 
expensive car, shes had so many issues with it, and the car has been off the road for a total 
of 24 weeks. But the complaint isnt about the faults or the repairs, its about the 
compensation paid and offered in light of these periods with either no car, or a courtesy car. 
Our starting point in cases like these as a service, is that wed expect to see a consumer 
kept mobile wherever possible. In this instance, Ms G has had a courtesy car for around 22 
of the 24 weeks of repairs. 
Ive looked at the list of cars theyve had, and whilst they clearly arent all of the same value 
as their own car, they are what I would describe as premium brands, and all have space to 
transport the same number of people. Some were a little smaller than their own car, and 
some were probably a little bigger. But from a practical point of view, no specific issues have 
been raised, and I cant see that any would arise, other than occasionally having a slightly 
smaller boot space. 
Having said that, I do appreciate that having decided to spend a considerable amount of 
money on a premium car, its frustrating when that car has problems and Ms G had to use 
courtesy cars. 
Ms G has said that the £2,000 compensation paid was for the original period of nine weeks, 
and as such, they should be entitled to an equivalent amount for the ensuing 15 weeks of 
problems. She believes this £2,000 payment sets a precedent of refunding all their 
payments, and as such, they should be entitled to a further £6,295 for 24 weeks of 
payments, less the £2,000 already paid to them. 
Firstly, the complaint I have been asked to consider is for the whole period overall, so its fair 
for me to consider the amount of money paid so far, in relation to what Id expect to see 
overall as compensation to Ms G. 
Secondly, we would not expect a consumer to receive a full refund of payments, unless they 
had not been kept mobile at all. As Ive said above, theyve been kept mobile for the vast 
majority of this 24 week period. There was around two weeks without a car, and additionally 
there was around two weeks where they appear to have had a courtesy car of the same 
make and model. 
None of the other courtesy cars created any specific issues or problems that weve been 
made aware of. Ms G told us it was difficult with four children and various school start times 
and activities to transport them to, but Im not persuaded that these difficulties were more 
prevalent whilst using a courtesy car, than their own car. All the cars had the same number 
of seats and were similar enough that I cant agree the courtesy car caused any significant 
practical issues. No specific details have been provided to explain what practical issues were 
caused by the courtesy cars. 
With the £500 offer made by VWFS, compensation totalling £2,500 has been offered. Whilst 
Ms G hasnt demonstrated any practical issues caused by the courtesy cars, as Ive said, I 
do appreciate that having a courtesy car that isnt of the same value as their own car is 
frustrating. So, Ive considered whether I think £2,500 adequately reflects that. Im satisfied in these circumstances, that it does. We cant reasonably expect a finance 
company or a dealership to keep a fleet of cars that match the various cars they supply, so 
that anyone with a problem can have the same car as a courtesy car. This is particularly the 
case with a high spec expensive car like the one Ms G has. Im satisfied that VWFS and 
their dealership have provided similar spec cars for the majority of the time. 
There is no standard calculation here to work out how much would be fair compensation, so 
I have to consider this based on my own experience and opinion, trying to be as fair as I can 
to both parties. Unfortunately, some of the frustrations here are based on the ongoing 
problems that her own car has suffered, which dont form part of this complaint. 
Overall, I am satisfied that a total of £2,500 compensation for the periods in questions feels 
fair. Ms G had a courtesy car of broadly equivalent specification for the majority of the time. 
Shes also had good brands of cars, often the same as her own car. And whilst I appreciate 
the frustrations from paying for a higher value car, but having periods with these lower value 
courtesy cars, I dont think that warrants any more payment in this instance. 
Additionally, I gather Ms G has also been provided with a one year extension of the warranty 
for her car, to ensure any further issues with the car are potentially covered going forward. 
This does have a value, and also feels like a sensible option after the problems theyve had 
with the car. 
A total of £2,500 feels fair, and I wont be asking VWFS to do any more. I am not sure the 
£500 offered by VWFS has yet been paid but would say it would be fair for VWFS to make 
this payment. So, if it hasnt been paid already, Id recommend Ms G get in touch with VWFS 
directly to arrange this.   
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman