DRN-3783677
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined part of a claim 
for storm damage under her home insurance policy.
Im aware Mrs S has a representative but, for ease, I will only refer to her. References to 
Ageas include companies and agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs S contacted Ageas to make claim for storm damage to her shed, greenhouse and 
garage. Mrs S later decided not to pursue the claim for the shed. Ageas agreed to pay for 
damage to some glass in the greenhouse, but it declined the claim for the garage, as it 
assessed that the storm had highlighted pre-existing issues due to vegetation growth on and 
around the roof.
When Mrs S complained, Ageas didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had fairly declined the 
claim by applying an exclusion for wear and tear. So, Mrs S complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the 
claim on the basis of a pre-existing issue with the garage that was highlighted by the storm.
As Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
It isnt in dispute that there were storm conditions around the time the damage was reported. 
Ive also checked weather reports and could see there were winds that would be considered 
storm strength. I also think a storm could cause damage to a garage roof. So, I think the 
answer to the first two question is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question, which is about the main cause of the damage. Mrs 
S provided Ageas with photos of the damage, which Ageas surveyor used to assess the 
claim. the surveyors report said Garage 38 years old and has heavy vegetation growth 
affecting roof which made the construction vulnerable. Therefore, the weather highlighted an 
on-going maintenance issue and the claim is declined. I could see the vegetation growth in 
the photos.
Im aware Mrs S has said the wind hit the garage from the front of the garage, not the rear of 
the garage where the vegetation was mainly growing. However, I havent seen anything that 
persuades me it was unreasonable for Ageas to rely on its surveyors findings. I also havent 
seen any other expert evidence to show that assessment was unfair. Im also aware Ageas 
didnt send a surveyor. However, an insurer isnt required to send a surveyor to a property. 
Insurers sometimes assess a claim based on information provided by the policyholder and 
only send a surveyor where it assesses there is a clear reason to do so. In this instance, 
Ageas didnt find reasons to send a surveyor to assess the damage in person. The policy 
didnt cover issues such as wear and tear and maintenance issues and so I think it was 
reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim for the garage based on the information it 
considered.
Mrs S was also concerned by delays with assessing the claim. Ive looked at the claim notes 
and other information to see how the claim progressed. From what I can see, Ageas 
registered the claim and arranged for a surveyor to assess it. I think it reached a decision on 
the claim within a reasonable timescale. Im aware Mrs S has said when she phoned about 
her claim, there was sometimes a long wait for the call to be answered. I can understand 
that would be frustrating, particularly as Mrs S was concerned about her claim. However, Im 
not persuaded this showed Ageas was unreasonable in how it dealt with the claim. Initially 
Ageas declined the whole claim. However, Mrs S then asked Ageas to reconsider the claim 
and it offered a cash settlement for some of the damage to the greenhouse. I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances. Looking at the claim as a whole, Im not persuaded there 
were unreasonable delays or that Ageas should reconsider the claim or pay compensation 
on that basis.
Having looked at what happened, I dont uphold this complaint or require Ageas to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman