DRN-3507488
The complaint
Miss K complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc declined her pet insurance claim. My 
references to Pinnacle include its agents.
What happened
Miss K has lifetime pet insurance for her rabbit which started on 1 February 2020. Pinnacle 
is the insurer.
When the policy started Pinnacle checked the rabbits vet records and wrote to Miss K telling 
her it had applied a specific exclusion to the policy for respiratory problems (reviewable in 
February 2022) as her rabbit previously had treatment for diagnosed respiratory problems in 
2018/2019.
The policy renewed in February 2021. In September 2021 Miss K took her rabbit to the vet 
with breathing issues. She claimed for treatment for pyothorax (pus fluid within the chest 
cavity). Pinnacle declined the claim as it said the condition fell within the respiratory 
problems exclusion.
Miss K complained to us. She sent a report by her vet which she said showed pyothorax isnt 
a respiratory problem. She wants Pinnacle to pay the claim.
Our investigator said Pinnacle fairly added the respiratory problem exclusion and fairly 
declined the claim as it had provided evidence that pyothorax would be considered a 
respiratory problem for its underwriting criteria.
Miss K disagrees and wanted an ombudsmans decision. In summary she said she didnt 
dispute that Pinnacle could add the respiratory problems exclusion. Her complaint is that 
Pinnacle couldnt use the exclusion to decline the claim as her vets opinion was the claim 
wasnt for a respiratory condition. She said she hadnt seen any evidence from Pinnacle to 
dispute her vets opinion.
Before I made my provisional decision I asked Pinnacle to provide evidence why it 
considered pyothorax to be a respiratory problem and if it had any comments on Miss Ks 
vets report. I referred to the evidence Pinnacle provided in my provisional decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint but for 
different reasons than our investigator gave. I said:
Miss K doesnt dispute that Pinnacle could add the respiratory problems exclusion to her 
policy so I dont need to consider that issue. I have to decide whether Pinnacle fairly and 
reasonably used the respiratory problems exclusion to decline the claim, and I think it did. Ill 
explain why.
Miss Ks vet notes of 9 September 2021 says her rabbit presented with increased respiratory 
effort and flaring nostrils. Her vets report says:
Mrs K brought (rabbits name) to see me on 09/09/2021 as he was breathing quicker 
than normal. I was concerned at this and suggested we take radiographs (x-rays). 
The x rays revealed a chest full of fluid which we aspirated and discovered pus. We 
then drained the chest and flushed till all the pus was removed and the chest was 
clear. As this is a potentially life threatening condition (pyothorax) we sent a sample 
away to be tested in order to make sure we were treating with the correct antibiotic.
I maintain that this was not a respiratory infection as neither the airways nor the lungs 
were affected. It was in fact an infection in the chest that was impeding the lungs 
from inflating properly, giving rise to the increased respiratory effort. It was most 
definitely not a respiratory infection. The results of the culture revealed Pasteurella 
which is a bacteria that can affect many parts of the body. As far as I am aware he 
was excluded for respiratory problems. He did not have a respiratory problem.
So Miss Ks vets opinion is that the condition claimed for wasnt a respiratory problem.
Pinnacles underwriting guidance shows that if a pet has pyothorax it will add a specific 
exclusion for respiratory problems. But thats not necessarily evidence that pyothorax is a 
respiratory problem.
However Pinnacles also provided a detailed report from its vet, which weve sent to Miss K.
In summary the vet says:
Pasteurella was the inciting cause of both the rabbits initial upper respiratory 
infection and the later pyothorax. So the conditions all related to respiratory 
problems/pasteurellosis.
The pleural space is part of the respiratory system so although the bacteria was 
affecting the pleural space and not the upper respiratory tract given that pasteurella 
was found and the rabbit previously had pasteurellosis the conditions are linked.
Miss Ks vet said the claim condition wasnt a respiratory infection as neither the 
airways nor lungs were affected. However, the pleural space is part of the respiratory 
system, just not directly connected to the upper or lower airways. The pleural space 
is important to regulate pressure changes which allow the lungs to expand and 
contract which is why the rabbit had laboured breathing when his pleural space was 
full of fluid. The fluid was impairing the lungs expanding so the lungs were affected, 
just indirectly.
The only way bacterial infection gets into the pleural space is from perforation 
internally from the lungs, blood transmission, or from an external trauma. In any of 
these situations, pasteurella was the bacteria isolated, so it is clearly due to the rabbit 
already having the bacteria in its body and it spreading (internally, externally or via 
the blood).
Miss Ks vet also says the rabbit didnt have a respiratory problem, however the 
presenting clinical signs were an increased respiratory rate and effort and flaring of 
the nostrils which are all respiratory problems.
So Pinnacles vets opinion is that the claim condition was a respiratory problem or at the
very least related to a respiratory problem.
There is conflicting opinion between the vets. Im persuaded by Pinnacles vets full
explanation in her report as to why Pinnacle can reasonably consider that Miss Ks rabbits
pyothorax fell within the respiratory problem exclusion. I think Pinnacle fairly relied on the
exclusion to decline the claim.Responses to my provisional decision and further developments 
Miss K disagreed with my provisional decision. Theres been exchanges of further evidence 
between Miss Ks vet and Pinnacles vet. Miss K added that:
Pinnacles second report didnt have a named author or the authors professional 
qualifications and may not be a professional opinion, whereas her vet had provided 
expert opinion.
Pinnacles second report included a reference to a named online encyclopedia which 
Miss K said was known to be an unreliable source so I should disregard any 
comments from that source.
When the policy began it was offered with the exclusion of respiratory problems, 
there was no exclusion for pasteurella. If such an exclusion for pasteurella had now 
been added she didnt know or consent to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the further evidence from both parties and their vets, as well as the 
original evidence, and have enough to make a final decision on Miss Ks complaint. 
To address Miss Ks concerns raised in her response:
Pinnacles covering letter to its second report shows the report is its vets response to 
Miss Ks vets report of April 2022. Im satisfied Pinnacles report is from an 
appropriate expert.
Ive not taken into account generic information from the online encyclopedia but have 
taken into account evidence Pinnacles vet provided in her second report from the 
medical websites and the National Cancer Institutes definitions (the later originally 
referred to by Miss Ks vet).
The exclusion on the policy that Pinnacle used to decline this claim is the exclusion 
for respiratory problems. Ive seen no evidence that Pinnacle has added an 
additional exclusion for the specific condition of pasteurellosis. 
Having considered all the evidence I find that Pinnacle fairly and reasonably used the 
respiratory problems exclusion to decline the claim. Ill explain why.
The evidence from both parties vets has in part focused on whether or not Miss Ks rabbit 
previously had pasteurella. Very briefly, Miss Ks vet said as her initial vet didnt do 
diagnostic tests theres no proof the rabbits original respiratory problems were caused by 
pasteurella and also other matters can also cause respiratory problems. Pinnacles vet said 
pasteurella hadnt been previously diagnosed in the rabbit but she detailed why she thought 
there was enough evidence the rabbit previously had pasteurellosis without a formal 
diagnosis. 
As no diagnostic tests were done in 2018/19 to show the cause of the rabbits respiratory 
problems I cant be completely certain that pasteurellosis was the cause then. But I make my 
decision on the the balance of probabilities. Although there was no formal diagnosis in 
2018/19, Im persuaded by Pinnacles vet evidence that the rabbits clinical signs and 
response to treatment mean its more likely than not that he previously did have 
pasteurellosis.
However, importantly I dont think whether or not the rabbit had pasteurellosis is the main 
issue. I say that because Miss K doesnt dispute Pinnacle could add the respiratory problems exclusion given her rabbits medical history before the policy started. So the main 
issue is whether Pinnacle fairly considered pyothorax to be a respiratory problem.
Also, I note Miss Ks vet says that if he hadnt done a bacterial culture and just treated the 
rabbit with antibiotics Pinnacle would have paid the claim because there would be no proven 
pasteurella. But I dont think thats correct, Pinnacle didnt decline the claim only because it 
thought the rabbit had pasteurella previously and at the treatment claimed for. It declined 
because it considered pyothorax was a respiratory problem.
Miss Ks vet thinks the pleural space isnt part of the respiratory system. He referred to the 
definition of the respiratory system from the National Cancer Institute - the organs that are 
involved in breathing. These include the nose, throat, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs. 
He says pleural space isnt mentioned in that definition. And although the pleural space is 
involved in breathing so are other parts of the body (for example ribs, heart, brain) that arent 
part of the respiratory system.
In contrast Pinnacles vet says the pleural space is a vital part of the respiratory system, 
without which the pressure changes to allow for expansion and contraction of the lungs 
wouldnt occur. And as to the National Cancer Institutes definition of the respiratory system 
she says just because the pleural space isnt a direct part of the respiratory apparatus 
(lungs, airways etc) doesnt mean its not part of the respiratory system. She refers to the 
National Cancer Institutes definition of the pleural cavity - the space enclosed by the pleura, 
which is a thin layer of tissue that covers the lungs and lines the interior wall of the chest 
cavity. She says that definition describes the pleura as being a membrane to the chest 
cavity, similar to the bone membrane still being part of the bone. She also referred to 
medical article that refers to the pleural space as being part of the respiratory system and an 
online veterinary paper on Approach to rabbit respiratory disease which says pleural 
effusion can cause a restrictive respiratory disease.
On the overall vet evidence I dont think it was unreasonable for Pinnacle to considerer that 
pyothorax was a respiratory problem. And although Pinnacles underwriting guidance alone 
isnt necessarily evidence that pyothorax is a respiratory problem I accept that the 
underwriting guidance shows if a pet has pyothorax Pinnacle will add a specific exclusion for 
respiratory problems. 
Both vets have also commented on whether laboured breathing, which the rabbit had when 
he was treated for pyothorax, implies a disease of the respiratory system. Miss Ks vet says 
not as other conditions, such as cardiac conditions, can cause increased breathing effort. 
Pinnacles vet agrees that some other conditions can cause laboured breathing but says in 
this case Miss Ks rabbit had increased respiratory effort and flaring of the nostrils, it was 
radiographed to show a pleural effusion and when the pleural effusion was drained that 
improved his respiratory effort. She believes in this case the rabbits laboured breathing was 
clearly due to the pleural effusion and she referred again to the veterinary paper which says 
a pleural effusion can cause a restrictive respiratory disease.  
Both vets agree that laboured breathing doesnt have to mean there is a respiratory disease, 
and I accept that. But the evidence shows that when the rabbit had pyothorax he had 
increased respiratory effort. 
For the reasons Ive explained above I find that Pinnacle reasonably considered that on the 
overall evidence the claim for pyothorax fell within the exclusion for respiratory problems and 
it could fairly use the exclusion to decline the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman