DRN-4138803
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) added a retrospective condition 
onto their home insurance policy and declined their claim for accidental damage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out buildings and contents insurance with Covea through a broker in 
2019. The policy was renewed in 2020 and 2021.
In July 2022 there was a water leak from a tap and hose on the flat roof which led to an 
ingress of water into the kitchen. Coveas surveyor attended to inspect the damage and 
noted that the leak had occurred on a flat, living roof to the rear extension. As Mr and Mrs P 
hadnt declared a flat or living roof, Covea applied a retrospective endorsement to the policy 
and declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs P complained. They accepted that part of the roof was flat but said that they had 
answered all questions correctly when they took out the policy in 2019. They said that the 
majority of the roof was tile and they hadnt been asked for a percentage of tiled roof or if 
any of the roof was flat. They said that the living roof wasnt installed until 2020 and that they 
didnt know they needed to inform Covea.
Covea didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the living roof should have been declared as 
living (eco)  20-50%. It referred to its policy conditions and said that had it been made 
aware of the correct roof construction at the start of the policy, it would still have offered 
cover but with an endorsement relating to the living roof. It said that it was fair to apply the 
endorsement retrospectively and decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think Covea had 
acted fairly. She concluded that it hadnt been made clear to Mr and Mrs P at either inception 
or renewal that they had to declare a proportion of their roof as flat or living. She thought 
Covea should reopen the claim and consider it in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy - and pay Mr and Mrs P £300 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Covea didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea says that Mr and Mrs P didnt tell it that part of the roof was flat or that it was living, 
and had it known this it would have offered cover on different terms. There are two issues 
here, the flat roof and the living roof, and Ive dealt with them separately.
Flat roof
Mr and Mrs P accept that a single storey extension at the rear of the property had a flat roof 
and that this was present in 2019 when the policy started. Ive therefore looked at what 
information was requested from Mr and Mrs P, and what answers they gave, when they first 
took out the policy in September 2019.  
The 2019 quotation form was completed by Mr and Mrs P via a broker. There are no 
questions specifically relating to whether there is a pitched or flat roof. The quotation form 
asks if the roof is tile, slate or other. There are no questions about a mixture of different roof 
types or percentages. 
Covea says that it would have expected Mr and Mrs P to answer this question as other and 
to use the free format box to note any different types of roof construction. However, if Covea 
wanted this information, or to know about any flat roof, I would have expected it to have 
made this clear - and it didnt. Mr and Mrs P say that most of their roof is tile and I think Mr 
and Mrs P answered this question as accurately as they could in response to the question 
asked. I dont think it fair to expect Mr and Mrs P to provide information about a flat roof 
without being asked.  
Covea sent a Statement of Fact to Mr and Mrs P at inception and when the policy renewed 
each year. The statement reflected the answers given in the quotation form. Ive looked at 
the Statement of Fact at inception and for 2021/22 which is the year in which the claim was 
made. It states that the property is roofed with tile. There is no mention of whether the roof 
is pitched or flat  and I havent seen anything in the policy booklet telling Mr and Mrs P that 
they need to declare that a percentage of the roof is flat. 
As Mr and Mrs P werent asked at any stage about a flat roof, or a combination of roof 
constructions, I dont think it fair of Covea to say that Mr and Mrs P should have declared it. 
Living roof
Its quite common for an insurer to include a condition in its policy requiring a policyholder to 
let it know of any changes after the policy has started. If an insurer is going to rely on this, Id 
expect it to highlight this at the start of the policy and make sure it clearly sets out the 
changes it wants to know about. If it doesnt, it may not be fair for an insurer to take action if 
a policyholder fails to tell it of a change in circumstance.
Mr and Mrs P say that the living roof was installed in 2020 after the policy started  so the 
question for me is whether Mr and Mrs P should have notified Covea about the living roof. 
Covea says is should have been told of any changes involving a change of risk. It says that 
as the roof construction formed part of the statement of fact, it would have been evident to 
Mr and Mrs P that they should have notified Covea about a new living roof. 
Ive looked carefully at the policy documents from inception and at each renewal, including 
the policy booklet, but cant see anywhere that Mr and Mrs P were advised to notify Covea if 
they instal a living roof. The Statement of Fact asks policyholders to check that the 
information is correct and to notify Covea if there is a material change of circumstance. They 
are referred to the General Conditions in the policy booklet for further guidance. Ive looked 
at the General Conditions and these say that Covea should be notified of any changes in 
circumstances which may increase the possibility or extent of loss, damage or legal liability 
covered by this policy. It then provides a number of examples of what should be notified. 
There is no mention of changes to roof construction or specifically to flat or living roofs and I 
dont think it reasonable to assume that policyholders would know that this might increase 
the possibility of loss or damage. Whilst the booklet doesnt list all changes that are 
notifiable, I think it would be reasonable to expect it to list changes to the construction of the 
roof if this were to affect cover. 
Covea also says that the living roof should have been recorded as living (Eco)  20-50% rather than as tile. I dont know where this reference is taken from as it wasnt an option at 
inception or renewal  and doesnt appear in the policy booklet. I cant see that it was drawn 
to Mr and Mrs Ps attention and therefore dont think it fair to say now that this is how they 
should have recorded the construction of their roof. 
Covea have retrospectively applied an endorsement from inception and declined the claim. 
Whilst I think that the endorsement is poorly worded as it refers to a building warranty which 
never existed, it effectively allows Covea to decline any claim for loss or damage arising 
from ingress of water from the roof area. Such an endorsement might be reasonable now 
that Covea is aware of the living roof, but I dont think it fair to impose it retrospectively. 
Therefore, on balance I dont think Covea has acted reasonably and Im upholding this 
complaint. I require Covea to consider the claim under the terms and conditions of the policy 
before the retrospective endorsement was added.
As I dont think Covea treated Mr and Mrs P fairly, Ive gone on to consider compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. A significant amount of time was spent by Mr and Mrs P dealing 
with the claim, and having their claim unfairly declined added to the distress caused by the 
incident itself. I agree with our investigator that a sum of £300 compensation is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to:
consider the claim under the terms and conditions of the policy before the 
retrospective endorsement was applied; and
pay Mr and Mrs P £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman