DRN-4307383
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC Bank) irresponsibly gave him increases 
to an overdraft that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr M applied to increase his overdraft from £800 to £1,800. In May 2019 
Mr M applied online for a further increase to £2,200. 
In 2022, Mr M complained to HSBC Bank to say that the account shouldnt have been
increased at these times because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should not be upheld. Mr M didnt agree. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in
the round.
HSBC Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending.
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ms complaint is that HSBC Bank made credit available that was unaffordable. Its 
possible that the checks HSBC Bank performed were insufficient. But had more thorough 
searches been performed, Im not persuaded that HSBC Bank would have seen sufficient 
evidence to have been put off providing the increases to Mr Ms overdraft. Ill explain why I 
say that.
HSBC Bank has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr M provided at the time 
of each application to assess affordability. They explained they also reviewed the account 
and concluded that the credit that passed through Mr Ms account suggested there was 
affordability for the overdraft. 
Mr M told us the income he had was lower than it may have seemed to HSBC Bank from 
the accounts. And Mr M has provided testimony that he was struggling to make ends meet. 
But the bank statements that Mr M has provided do not show a clear pattern that would 
have put HSBC Bank off agreeing to the overdraft increases. I say that because in some 
months Mr M had more funds coming into his account than were going out of it and 
sometimes it was the other way. In any event the amount coming into Mr Ms account was 
far from modest and he was managing his account within the agreed overdraft limits at the 
time of the two lending decisions to increase that credit limit. I am not persuaded that the 
bank statements are conclusive evidence that Mr M was in the grip of financial difficulty that 
should have precluded the provision of the credit HSBC Bank provided. 
In saying that I have also thought that the increases to the overdraft limits were modest 
compared to the income coming into Mr Ms account at the time of each overdraft increase. 
And, likewise, the amount of interest that each increase to the overdraft would have cost Mr 
M on a monthly basis was also quite modest.   
HSBC Bank told us they carried out a credit search in Mr Ms name to assess Mr Ms
level of debt at the time of each lending decision and to understand how he had been
managing that debt. HSBC Bank told us that the credit check it conducted showed that Mr 
Ms credit history was very clean at the time of the increases to the overdraft. I have not 
seen that data. But Mr M has provided a full copy of his credit file which covers that time 
and the information it contains seems to confirm what HSBC Bank told us they saw. It 
shows that Mr Ms management of his existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, 
defaults or bankruptcies at the time of either overdraft increase. So, it seemed from the 
credit file that at the point that the lending decisions were made, Mr M was affording his 
existing credit.
HSBC Banks own credit card records would have shown that Mr M had missed a payment 
to a credit card in December 2018. But the amount was for a modest amount only. But 
there appears to have been no other such issues in Mr Ms credit history in the 12 months 
before the overdraft increases were given. And Mr M was managing his existing overdraft 
well and was not utilising the full amount of the overdraft at the point of either increase. So, 
HSBC Bank appeared to have little reason to make further enquiries into Mr Ms 
expenditure at those times based on the information it was provided by Mr M and it 
procured for itself. 
So, HSBC Bank were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from the 
above. And had HSBC Bank had more information, I am not persuaded that they would 
have declined Mr Ms requests for increases to the overdraft as unaffordable. And whilst Mr 
Ms finances may have deteriorated after the times of these overdraft increases, I must not 
use hindsight in reaching my determination. I must look at the information that was, or could 
have been, available to HSBC Bank at the times it made its lending decisions. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, Im not persuaded that, based
on the information provided to HSBC Bank, or from what HSBC Bank could see of Mr Ms
management of other credit, anything ought to have prompted HSBC Bank to have acted 
differently than it did. Having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen 
insufficient evidence to think that the credit HSBC Bank provided to Mr M was 
unreasonable.
I know that Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has 
invested time and energy in pursuing his complaint. Mr M will also be disappointed because 
he has had a separate complaint partially upheld by a colleague. Each case is considered 
on the specific circumstances and based on the particular merits of that individual 
complaint. 
But I want Mr M to know that I considered all the submissions made in this case. And I want 
to take this opportunity to say that I have been sorry to read of the financial difficulties, and 
other difficulties, Mr M has told us about. But having considered all the submissions in this case, particularly those concerning the times of the lending decisions, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman