DRN-3092310
Complaint
Miss A has complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to 
her current account. Shes said HSBC applied unarranged overdraft charges when she was 
in financial difficulty.
Background
Miss As complaint was then looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that HSBC 
had done anything wrong or had treated Miss A unfairly. So he didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss As
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCS charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Miss A if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Miss As 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Miss A was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where HSBC didnt treat Miss A fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where HSBC continued charging 
Miss A unfairly. Miss A did incur unarranged overdraft fees on occasion. But the unarranged 
overdraft charges on Miss As account were incurred sporadically. And while Im not seeking 
to make retrospective value judgements over Miss A expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions going 
from the account. And it was these rather than any charges which were causing her to go 
into an unarranged overdraft. Equally the total amount being credited to Miss As account 
each month didnt indicate that the charges would cause undue difficulty.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Miss A wasnt 
experiencing continued financial difficulty. And I know that Miss A might have had a loan with 
HSBC go into a debt management plan previously. But given the transactions that were 
taking Miss A into an unarranged overdraft, I dont think Miss As historic difficulties (which 
she was provided some relief from thorough the debt management plan) in itself meant that 
HSBC should automatically have assumed that these charges would cause undue difficulty, 
without being told this by Miss A. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Miss A, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. 
As this is the case, I dont think that HSBC needs to refund any interest, fees and charges 
here and Im not upholding Miss As complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Miss A  especially as she has been waiting sometime for an answer from 
us. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman