DRN-4322438
The complaint
Mrs N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wouldnt refund £88,279.56 which she lost 
in an investment scam.
What happened
What Mrs N says:
Mrs N is represented by a third-party claims firm, but I will refer to Mrs N as the complainant.
Mrs N told us that her father (who lived with her) and her husband sadly passed away late in 
2019. Mrs N then retired in April 2020, and she had to deal with the winding up of their 
affairs, and this, added to her isolation due to the pandemic, led to her feeling lonely and 
vulnerable.
In January 2021, Mrs N was phoned by a broker who said that her husband owned shares 
in an overseas company (A). A was said to be the subject of a hostile takeover and the 
broker was acting on behalf of a Japanese company (B) which wanted to buy her husbands 
shares in A. But before this could happen, a fee needed to be paid to register the shares for 
them to be sold. Mrs N said she had no knowledge of her husbands financial affairs but 
suspected he may have had some shares in the company at some stage in the past. The 
broker said that she would receive the money within a few weeks of the initial payment.
Mrs N did some research on A  which was quoted on the New York stock exchange, but 
couldnt find anything about B. She told us she was initially sceptical about the offer. 
Throughout the process, she asked some retired friends for advice  they were a little 
sceptical but said it may be worth a go. 
She was called many times by two people at the brokers and they introduced her to two 
other persons who were said to have gone through the same process  and who vouched 
for the credibility of the deal. She established regular email and phone correspondence with 
the brokers. All of this encouraged her to go ahead.
No money arrived, but the brokers then gave various reasons to say that more money was 
needed and asked for a further four payments. A total of £88,279.56 was sent by Mrs N 
between February 2021 and October 2021. The broker said Mrs N stood to receive 
£425,000 from the sale of the shares.
The payments were made in a branch of HSBC. Various reasons were given by the 
scammers for the amounts which needed to be paid - as shown:
Date Amount Beneficiary Reason given by 
scammer
8 February 2021 £5,397.11  paid in euros Limited Company (1), 
BelgiumRegistration of shares
2 March 2021 £17,256.33  paid in euros Limited Company (2), - 
LithuaniaPurchase of more 
shares
14 May 2021 £33,319.61  paid in USD Limited Company (2), - 
LithuaniaPay US withholding 
tax
12 July 2021 £17,012.68  paid in euros Limited Company (2), 
 LithuaniaPurchase of more 
shares
12 October 2021 £15,293.83  paid in USD Limited Company (2), 
 Hong Kong via 
SingaporePay US withholding 
tax
Total £88,279.56
The payments were made in a branch of HSBC and each time, Mrs N spoke to a member of 
staff to arrange the payments. She said that she was asked about the first payment  and 
said it was to do with shares owned by her late husband. Each time, she took with her 
information and documents about the transaction. She said it sometimes took up to an hour 
to complete each payment.
Mrs N says she wasnt questioned by HSBC about the reasons for the payments, nor given 
any warnings about the possibility of a scam.
During October 2021 and November 2021, Mrs N had difficulty in getting a response from 
the brokers and by December 2021, she realised she had been the victim of a scam  as all 
communications stopped. She received no money.
Mrs N says her mental health suffered because of what happened. She became depressed 
and couldnt discuss this with family and friends. She contacted HSBC in March 2022 to 
report the scam.
What HSBC said:
In their final response, in June 2022, HSBC said that branch staff discussed each payment 
with Mrs N and provided warnings before each one was made. The payments werent 
covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  as they were international 
payments. HSBC said theyd actioned recall requests to the beneficiary banks, but no funds 
could be recovered. HSBC didnt agree to refund the money.
Our investigation so far:
Mrs N brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said:
- The first payment wasnt unusual compared to Mrs Ns normal account usage. So  it was reasonable that HSBC didnt question it.
- But  the next four payments were sufficiently unusual for HSBC to have asked 
questions. They were international currency payments and for amounts that Mrs N 
wouldnt normally make.
- In summary, our investigator wasnt persuaded that HSBC had asked sufficient, 
probing questions of Mrs N as she made the series of payments.
- She hadnt seen anything to suggest that Mrs N had been coached by the scammers 
as to what to say, so if HSBC had asked the right questions, it was likely that the 
scam wouldve been uncovered.
- She could see how genuine the paperwork and emails from the brokers were; added 
to the cover story provided by the two people who vouched for the scheme. He didnt 
think Mrs N should bear any of the loss (other than the first payment).
- She said that HSBC should refund £82,882.45 (the total of the last four payments), 
plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement.
Mrs N agreed, but HSBC didnt. HSBC argued:
- Mrs N attended the branch several times and spent an hour on each payment. They 
said they provided warnings to Mrs N each time and had evidenced that.
- They suggested that Mrs N was warned about the possibility of a scam but was 
happy to go ahead.
- Mrs N should bear at least 50% of her losses. HSBC said:
oThere was no evidence that Mrs Ns late husband owned any shares in A, nor 
did Mrs N check if he had. If she had acted in the winding up of his estate, 
she wouldve had access to information about company A - and whether he 
had owned shares in it.
oIt was implausible to pay sums of money to get shares into a sellable state  
as the first payment had been for. This made no sense.
oMrs N shouldve taken steps to check what she was being told  and she had 
several months during which she couldve done the checks.
oMrs Ns friends seemed to have been sceptical about the investments, but 
Mrs N still went ahead.
oThere were many red flags such as Mrs N being called by the scammer out 
of the blue; the reasons for the payments were implausible (e.g. payment of 
withholding tax); payments were made to various payees, none of whom were 
the broker, nor the company A; given that company A was quoted in New 
York, and the broker was affiliated with Japan, it made no sense that 
payments were made to Lithuania, Belgium and Hong Kong.
- HSBC argued that a reasonable person could be expected to have acted more 
carefully than Mrs N did  and she should therefore bear responsibility for some of 
her losses.- HSBC said Mrs N shouldnt receive 8% interest when she has made payments for 
implausible reasons and any interest that is paid should be calculated from the 
beginning of May 2022. 
Our investigator confirmed his opinion hadnt changed and therefore Mrs Ns complaint has 
come to me to consider.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Mrs N has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mrs N didnt intend for 
the  money to go to the scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to payments made to a UK beneficiary and in 
this case, the payments were made to an overseas account. 
I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs N when 
she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
I firstly considered whether the payments made by Mrs N were unusual for her  given the 
normal use of her account. I can see she used it for normal living expenses. Other than that, 
there was a bill payment for £3,300 on 19 October 2020; a cheque payment of £7,762 on 11 
November 2020, and a payment of £4,750 on 7 January 2021. 
I looked at the five payments:
£5,397.11 - 8 February 2021: I can see this was questioned by HSBC. The form completed 
says HSBC were concerned it was a scam. It says the reason for the payment was to 
register the shares before the cashing in of shares can be completed; it also said, payment for Consultancy Services Rendered. I think it wouldve been reasonable for HSBC 
to point out that it didnt make sense to make a payment of such an amount to register 
shares and ask why payment for consultancy was required. HSBC read out the warning 
Based on our conversation Im concerned this may be a scam. But I dont think that was 
enough in this case  HSBC shouldve done more. It seems to me that HSBC shouldve 
been more proactive and shown Mrs N how odd the reasons were for such a large payment 
 after all, HSBC are the experts, and not Mrs N. The document doesnt record if anything of 
that nature was discussed with Mrs N.
£17,256.33  2 March 2021: This was to a new payee, to a beneficiary in Lithuania, and in 
euros. It was for a significant sum  so was out of line with Mrs Ns normal account activity. 
HSBC told us that they asked Mrs N about the payment. I reviewed the document completed 
by HSBC at the time. It says, payment for script issue for shares re late husbands estate. 
So  it does appear there was a conversation with Mrs N about the payment. 
The document says Mrs N was asked can you tell me the background behind the 
payment? And says there was a script read which said: Based on our conversation, Im 
concerned this may be a scamby choosing to continue, you agree that we may not be able 
to recover your payments.. 
We asked HSBC more about this  and they told us theyre not required to record what was 
discussed with Mrs N at the time. Ive considered this  and Im persuaded that without any 
evidence as to what questions were asked and what Mrs Ns responses were, I cannot say 
that HSBC asked the necessary open questions about the payment  as they shouldve 
done.
If HSBC had done what I think it should when these payment requests were made, no 
further payments would have been made. But Ive gone on to consider HSBCs interaction 
when subsequent payments were made.
£33,319.61 - 14 May 2021:  this was to the same payee as the second payment. HSBCs 
records show Mrs N said it was to pay bills- i.e. US withholding tax. But  the payment was 
in euros, and to a bank in Lithuania. This shouldve been a red flag to HSBC as such a 
payment didnt make sense. I can see that HSBC read out a scripted warning about making 
bill payments  this said: based on our conversation, Im concerned this may be a 
scamby agreeing to continue, you agree that we may not be able to recover your 
payment. Of itself, I dont think that HSBC did enough and there is no record of any 
questioning or responses from Mrs N  and I think its reasonable to expect that there was.
£17,012.68  12 July 2021: this was to the same payee and in Lithuania. It was said to pay 
bills. HSBC again read out the script as for the previous payment. But again, there is no 
record of any discussion or responses from Mrs N.
£15,293.83  12 October 2021: this was to the same payees, but to Hong Kong and in USD. 
The purpose is recorded as pay bills and husbands estate. There is nothing 
recorded about the questions asked of Mrs N or her responses. The same script was read 
out as for the previous two payments.
The crux of this complaint is therefore that HSBC cannot demonstrate clearly what open 
questions were asked of Mrs N and her responses. There were several questions that 
shouldve been asked as there were some red flags which HSBC shouldve reasonably have 
seen, and asked for example:
- There were a series of five large and unusual payments to the same (or similar) 
beneficiaries - tell us more about that.- There were euro payments and USD payments  why was that the case?
- Why were payments relating to share transactions in New York being made in euros 
and to banks in Lithuania and Hong Kong?
- What was the background to what Mrs N was being asked to do?
- What were the returns to be, and when?
- How was Mrs N contacted about the scheme?
I noted that HSBC said Mrs N was in the branch for some time when arranging each 
payment. I also noted from emails Ive seen between Mrs N and the scammer that Mrs N 
said she took up to an hour to make a payment on one occasion. But  without firm evidence 
to say otherwise, Im persuaded that HSBC didnt ask the necessary questions to warn Mrs 
N about the scam. I noted that Mrs N said she hadnt been coached by the scammers as to 
what to say  so its likely that the scam wouldve been uncovered and the payments not 
made if HSBC had asked questions.
I also dont consider HSBC went far enough in saying on multiple occasions that it had 
concerns Mrs N may be the victim of a scam but still allowing her to make the payments on 
the basis that it may not be able to recover her money. HSBC is the expert here and I dont 
consider it fair to simply pass the responsibility to Mrs N. If HSBC had concerns it had the 
option of invoking the Banking Protocol. 
So  Im persuaded that HSBC should be initially liable for the total of the five payments.
Contributory Negligence: 
But thats not the end of the story here. I considered whether Mrs N couldve done more to 
protect herself and whether she contributed to what happened. And I think she should bear 
some of her losses. I say this because:
- The payment reasons given to Mrs N werent plausible. It didnt make sense to pay to 
register shares or consultancy services; it didnt make sense to pay for a script issue 
(which is the process of creating new shares free of charge); it was odd to pay US 
withholding tax in euros and to a Lithuanian bank. Even accepting that Mrs N was an 
inexperienced investor, the series of implausible reasons for the payment should 
have caused her some concerns.
- Mrs N said she researched company A and it was listed in New York. But she 
couldnt find any record of company B in Japan.
- The payments were made over an eight-month period  so, she had time to do more 
research and ask questions during that time, but didnt.
- She told us she spoke to some retired friends who said it might be worth a go - but 
no more than that. I also noted that Mrs N said in an email to the scammer  that her 
daughter was sceptical. It wouldve been reasonable that Mrs N sought some 
professional advice when making an investment of over £88,000 and over a period. 
But I couldnt see she did.
- The scammers promised Mrs N a payment within two weeks after the first payment 
(in February 2021), but nothing arrived - this shouldve caused her to question the 
scheme.
- A return of £425,000 for an investment of £88,000 shouldve appeared to a 
reasonable person to be too good to be true.
- She couldve checked whether her husband owned shares in company A  possibly 
she may have had access to that information when dealing with his estate, or by 
going through old papers or emails.
- The payments were made to various payees, none of whom were the broker, nor 
company A.- Given that company A was quoted in New York, and the broker was affiliated with 
Japan, it made no sense that payments were made to Lithuania, Belgium, and Hong 
Kong.
Therefore, Im persuaded that Mrs N should bear some of her losses here  I think its 
reasonable that she should bear 50%. So  HSBC should refund £44,139.78. And add 8% 
per annum simple from the date of the payments to the date of settlement. 
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes 
place. HSBC told us that they didnt immediately contact those banks when Mrs N called 
HSBC in March 2022. But by June 2022  they had done so, but no funds remained. So - 
HSBC were slow to act here. Ive considered this  and given that the scam took place 
between March 2021 and October 2021  I think its very unlikely that any money wouldve 
still been available to be repaid after so long in any case. So  the delay made no difference 
to the outcome. And it is rare for a firm to achieve any recovery from an overseas bank  as 
they have fewer obligations to do so.
Interest
HSBC is aware that this service awards 8% simple interest per year to reflect the cost to a 
consumer of being deprived of money. Interest should be payable from the date of each 
payment because this is the point at which the loss should have been prevented.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs Ns representatives agreed, on behalf of Mrs N. HSBC had no comments.
I now need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed, or had no comments, my final decision is the same as the 
provisional decision.(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
- refund £44,139.78, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman