DRN-3133021
The complaint
Mr L complains that PSA Finance UK Limited hasnt applied the charges as it should have to 
his hire purchase agreement. He believes he has been overcharged. 
What happened
Mr L entered into a hire purchase agreement with PSA Finance in April 2019 to acquire a 
new car. He says he wasnt given a full copy of the agreement at the time of signing and was 
just asked if he could afford the payments. He says he requested a copy of the agreement 
on several occasions and was informed there wasnt a copy on his file, but one would be 
uploaded for him. At this time, he says he contacted PSA Finance to get a written 
explanation of the charges as he was concerned that interest had been charged on the total 
cost of the car rather than the amount of credit provided after he paid his deposit. He says 
he didnt receive this and instead was given different explanations of how the interest was 
charged before being sent a formula. Mr L says he hasnt been provided with a clear 
explanation of the interest being charged. 
PSA finance issued a final response letter dated 9 July 2021. It said that documents were 
provided at the point of supply including the adequate explanations document which set out 
the payments, interest rates (5.9% APR) and total charge for credit which was calculated at 
the outset and included in the payments due. It said that had Mr L not been happy with the 
details of the agreement, or needed more time, he could have raised this. PSA Finance 
acknowledged that it could have explained the situation more clearly in response to Mr Ls 
questions and so it partially upheld the complaint and said it would arrange a payment of 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the agreement contained the 
information expected including information about the interest rate being applied and how this 
was calculated. He noted Mr Ls comments about not receiving a copy of the agreement, but 
he thought that it was more likely than not that the agreement would have been provided and 
Mr L would have been given the opportunity to read through this before signing. He didnt 
think there was any evidence to suggest that PSA had applied the interest rate incorrectly. 
Mr L said that reference was made to a hire purchase agreement, but he was told he had a 
personal contract plan (PCP). He didnt agree with our investigators view that he had seen 
the agreement at the outset. He said he had explained he had tried to access his account on 
several occasions, and this wouldnt have been necessary had he received a copy of the 
agreement. He said that despite asking several times about the interest payable and having 
received different responses he now just had a formula that was impossible to decipher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls complains is about the interest being charged on his agreement as well as the service 
he has received. I understand the frustrations that Mr L has experienced in trying to establish 
whether interest has been charged correctly. However, for me to uphold this complaint I 
would need to be satisfied that PSA Finance has done something wrong and not taken 
sufficient action to redress this.
I note Mr Ls comments about the type of agreement he has. PCPs are a type of hire 
purchase agreement and the agreement sets out that it is a hire purchase agreement. 
Mr Ls first part of his complaint is about not being provided with a copy of the agreement at 
the outset and I note his comments about the efforts he made to get a copy of the 
agreement and that he wouldnt have done this had he received a copy at the point of 
supply. I cant say what was given to Mr L at that time, but he has confirmed he was made 
aware of the payments. 
Mr L signed the agreement and the adequate explanations document at the point of supply. 
The agreement set out on the first page the breakdown of the costs including the total 
charge for credit and the interest rates being applied and provided an explanation of how the 
interest was applied. The adequate explanation document set out the payment amounts. 
Therefore, on balance, I think it reasonable to accept that Mr L was given the information he 
needed to make an informed decision as to whether he wished to enter the agreement and, 
had he had further questions he could have raised these at the time.
Mr L wasnt provided with the service he should have been when he contacted PSA Finance 
about the interest being charged as the explanations provide werent clear. PSA Finance has 
said that it has made a payment of £100 because of this and in this case I find this 
reasonable.
While I understand that Mr L is still concerned about the interest being charged on his 
account and I understand the formula provided may not have helped, the agreement sets out 
the interest charged. My role isnt to provide an audit of figures but having considered the 
APR in the agreement, the credit provided and the duration, I do not find I have evidence to 
say PSA Finance is charging the interest incorrectly. PSA Finance has investigated Mr Ls 
complaint and confirmed the interest has been correctly applied, therefore, on balance, I do 
not find I have enough to uphold this part of Mr Ls complaint.
Overall, while I agree Mr L wasnt given the service he should have when he was asking for 
an explanation of the interest charge, I think the compensation paid is sufficient and as I do 
not find I can say the interest being charged is incorrect, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against PSA Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman