DRN-4230084
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K hold travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs K were due to go on a holiday with friends in October 2022. They booked and 
paid for flights and accommodation separately. Unfortunately, before they were due to travel, 
their airline cancelled their flight. And so Mr and Mrs K say they werent able to travel. Their 
airline refunded the cost of their flights, so they got in touch with AWP to make a claim for 
their share of the accommodation costs.
Ultimately, AWP turned down their claim. It said the claim wasnt covered under the travel 
disruption section of the policy. Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with AWPs position and they 
complained. They said when theyd initially contacted AWP, on 20 October 2022, theyd 
been told their claim would be covered. AWP wasnt able to find the call but said it would 
give them the benefit of the doubt. It therefore offered them £40 compensation for poor 
service.
Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy with AWPs position and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They didnt agree that their claim should be considered under the travel disruption 
section of the policy. They felt it was covered under the cancellation section of the contract.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
claim was covered under either the cancellation or trip disruption sections of the policy. So 
she thought it had been fair for AWP to turn down Mr and Mrs Ks claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 June 2023, which explained the reasons why I didnt 
think it had been fair for AWP to turn down Mr and Mrs Ks claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ks policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether I 
think AWP treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of their contract 
with AWP. Mr and Mrs K feel that AWP shouldve considered their claim under Section 1  
Cancellation or curtailment. This says:
What is covered
We will pay you up to £5,000 (inclusive of any valid claim payable under Section 3  Travel 
disruption cover and Section 11  Winter sports (Ski pack) for any irrecoverable unused 
travel and accommodation costs (including excursions and other pre-paid charges) which 
you have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel 
expenses, due to any of the following necessary and unavoidable events:
Cancellation of the trip; or
You fully curtail (cut short) your trip before completion or partially curtail (interrupt) 
your trip for more than 48 hours; or
You have to make an early return home as a result of any of the following events 
occurring:..(Numbered list of insured events immediately follows, including illness, 
injury, redundancy etc).
It seems to me that its most likely AWP intended to limit cancellation cover to cancellation 
which happens because of one of a list of specific, defined events, such as illness, 
redundancy, serious damage at a policyholders home etc. I say that because most travel 
insurance policies available on the market generally require cancellation to be down to one 
of a specific list of insured events in order for claims to be covered.
But that isnt what this policy says. On a plain and ordinary interpretation of the policy as its 
drafted, AWP says that it will pay a policyholders irrecoverable unused accommodation 
costs due to one of the listed necessary and unavoidable events: cancellation or full or 
partial curtailment or early return home. Mr and Mrs Ks trip was cancelled. The contract 
terms as drafted imply that the numbered list of defined, insured events only apply to claims 
where a policyholder has had to make an early return home. So the policy suggests that 
cancellation in and of itself is covered for any eventuality, so long as its unavoidable and 
necessary. Theres no indication that cancellation is only covered if it happens for one of the 
listed reasons underneath the early return clause.
Accordingly then, on such a reading of the terms, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs Ks claim 
falls squarely within the scope of policy cover. Even if AWP did intend to limit cancellation 
cover to cancellation which was down to one the numbered list of insured events though, I 
dont think the policy is at all clear in this regard. Where a policy term is unclear or 
ambiguous, its a legal principle that it should be interpreted in favour of the party which 
didnt draft it. In this case, thats Mr and Mrs K.
So overall, I currently dont think it was fair or reasonable for AWP to conclude that Mr and 
Mrs Ks claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. And therefore, I currently intend to direct it 
to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ks claim, in line with remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr and Mrs K accepted my provisional findings.
AWP did not. It said that the only further point it could add was in reference to the policy 
wording, which states: any of the following necessary and unavoidable events. AWP 
considered that the wording any of the following clearly relates to the list of events which 
follow. And it pointed out that the policy also specifically excludes any claim arising from a 
reason not listed in the what is covered section.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think it was fair for AWP to turn down Mr and Mrs Ks claim and Ill explain why.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I consider the way the policy terms have been 
drafted lead to a conclusion that Mr and Mrs Ks claim falls squarely within the scope of 
cancellation cover. Its clear that AWP doesnt agree with my conclusions though and so Ive 
carefully considered its further submission.
For completeness, Ill set out the relevant terms again. The policy says:
We will pay you up to £5,000 (inclusive of any valid claim payable under Section 3  Travel 
disruption cover and Section 11  Winter sports (Ski pack) for any irrecoverable unused 
travel and accommodation costs (including excursions and other pre-paid charges) which 
you have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel 
expenses, due to any of the following necessary and unavoidable events:
Cancellation of the trip; or
You fully curtail (cut short) your trip before completion or partially curtail (interrupt) 
your trip for more than 48 hours; or
You have to make an early return home as a result of any of the following events 
occurring:..(Numbered list of insured events immediately follows, including illness, 
injury, redundancy etc).
AWP contends that the phrase due to any of the following necessary and unavoidable 
events clearly relates to the list of insured events, such as illness, redundancy etc. But I 
dont agree. The phrase appears immediately prior to three events  cancellation, 
curtailment or early return home. So in my view, the phrase applies to necessary and 
unavoidable cancellation and curtailment in and of themselves with no further qualification or 
reason necessary. And I still think the drafting of the policy leads to an interpretation that its 
only the early return home heading which is limited to cover for claims which arise because 
of the one of the listed events immediately following that particular bullet-point.
While I accept that the policy excludes claims which arent caused by a listed event, I dont 
find that this exclusion can be fairly applied to the circumstances of this claim. Thats 
because Im satisfied that on a plain and ordinary reading of the policy terms, necessary and 
unavoidable cancellation is a listed, insured event. I accept AWP didnt intend to provide 
such wide cancellation cover within the contract. But Im satisfied that the policy is so unclear 
and ambiguous in this regard as to mean it should be interpreted in Mr and Mrs Ks favour, in 
line with legal principles, and bearing in mind what I think it fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Overall then, I remain persuaded that AWP didnt act fairly when it turned down this claim. 
And I still find that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for AWP to 
reconsider Mr and Mrs Ks claim, in line with remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ks claim, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman