DRN-2931242
The complaint
T, a limited company, is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC cancelled its bank card, 
removed its overdraft facility, and cancelled direct debits, without providing any prior notice.  
What happened
T has a business banking relationship with Barclays. In November 2020, T noticed that 
Barclays had cancelled its bank card, overdraft facility, and all its direct debits. T wasnt 
happy about this, especially as Barclays hadnt given it any notice that it was intending to 
take such action. So, it raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Ts complaint, but it noted that it had suspended Ts facilities because T 
hadnt caught up with arrears that were outstanding on a business loan. Barclays also noted 
that they had sent T several letters advising that the loan was in arrears and that these 
letters had informed T of the possibility that its other banking facilities might be suspended if 
the loan arrears werent repaid. 
Because of this, and given that T hadnt made the required payment to bring the loan 
account out of arrears, Barclays felt that they hadnt acted unfairly in suspending Ts banking 
facilities and so didnt uphold this aspect of Ts complaint.
However, Barclays did acknowledge that, following T contacting them to resolve these 
issues, it didnt reinstate Ts facilities as quickly as it should have done, and so it upheld Ts 
complaint on this basis and offered a reimbursement of overdraft fees and a payment of 
compensation totalling approximately £150.
T wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so it referred its complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Barclays had communicated 
to T that its facilities might be suspended if the loan arrears werent paid, so they also didnt 
uphold that aspect of Ts complaint.
Our investigator also felt that the offers of reimbursement and compensation that Barclays 
had made to T regarding the reinstatement of Ts banking facilities did represent a fair and 
reasonable resolution to that aspect of Ts complaint. 
Finally, while conducting their review, our investigator raised a point with Barclays about a 
cancelled direct debit which Barclays accepted responsibility for and for which it made a 
compensation offer to T of a further £150. Our investigator felt that this amended offer from 
Barclays was reasonable and recommended that the complaint be upheld in Ts favour on 
that basis only.
T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done its evident that, contrary to Ts initial submission to this service that Barclays 
had suspended its business banking facilities without any notice being given, Barclays did 
send repeated letters to T advising that its loan account remained in arrears and that its 
banking facilities might be suspended if these arrears continued to remain unpaid.
Ts loan account fell into arrears because the January and February 2020 payments werent 
made. And, while T did make an additional payment in March  which cleared one of the 
payments outstanding  T didnt make a payment to clear the second of the two missed 
payments, such that Ts loan account remained in arrears.
T has stated that it didnt receive the letters that Barclays sent advising of these continuing 
arrears, but Barclays have been able to demonstrate that the letters were sent to the correct 
address for T, and this service wouldnt consider holding a business accountable for sent 
letters that arent subsequently received. And this is because the delivery of sent letters is 
undertaken by a postal service and isnt something over which a business has any control.
It also must be noted that it remained Ts responsibility to ensure that its kept track of the 
payments due on its accounts and that its accounts were up to date. Additionally, the fact 
that the loan account remained one month in arrears was evident from the statements of the 
loan account, which were available for T to review.
As such, I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays acted unreasonably or unfairly here, and 
Im satisfied that by suspending Ts banking facilities, Barclays were following a course of 
action theyd given reasonable notice to T might take place if the arrears on Ts loan account 
remained unpaid. Because of this, I wont be upholding this aspect of Ts complaint.
Regarding the issues surrounding the reinstatement of Ts banking facilities - following T 
making arrangements to clear the remaining loan arrears - Barclays have acknowledged that 
Ts business debit card and overdraft facility werent fully restored when they first should 
have been. Barclays have confirmed that they upheld Ts complaint regarding these issues 
and that they made an offer to T of a reimbursement of approximately £50 of overdraft 
charges as well as £100 compensation which T accepted and has already received  and 
which Im satisfied represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this aspect of Ts 
complaint.
T has stated that it experienced difficulties regarding the direct debits which Barclays had 
cancelled when it suspended its business banking facilities. I can appreciate Ts frustrations 
here, and I acknowledge that it would have been preferable if Barclays had explained to T 
that the fact that the direct debits had been cancelled meant that there was a possibility that 
the direct debits it was putting back into place for T might encounter difficulties with the third 
parties involved. However, given that Im satisfied that Barclays didnt act unfairly in 
cancelling the direct debits in the first instance  for the reasons previously explained  I 
dont feel that the subsequent difficulties that T encountered merit any form of further action 
or compensation from Barclays in this instance. 
T has also advised that the suspension of its debit card meant that it was unable to make 
payments to suppliers and so has incurred business losses as a result. Im not convinced by 
Ts position here, not only because Im satisfied that Barclays didnt act unfairly in 
suspending Ts debit card, but also because there remained alternative ways available to T 
to make transactions if T so wanted. Its also notable that, following the reinstatement of Ts 
debit card facilities, it appears from Ts statements that no payments to business suppliers 
were made for several days.
Finally, T have stated that, in January 2021, Barclays cancelled the direct debit that had 
been reset to make the monthly loan repayments. Barclays looked into this matter and werent able to establish how this direct debit was cancelled and so have assumed 
responsibility for the error. Because of this, Barclays have offered to make a further payment 
of £150 to compensate T for any inconvenience caused.
Im aware that T doesnt feel that this offer of compensation goes far enough, especially 
given that the cancellation of the direct debit resulted in Ts loan account once again falling 
into arrears, with no payments being made toward the account by T until June 2021.
However, Barclays have been able to provide telephone call notes which appear to 
demonstrate that T was aware that the direct debit had been cancelled as early as late 
January 2021. As such, Im satisfied that it was incumbent on T to have made the 
contractual loan repayments via an alternative method, and Im similarly satisfied that the 
£150 compensation offered by Barclays in this regard is fair and reasonable and I wont be 
instructing Barclays to take any further action in relation to this matter at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that T wanted here, but it follows from all of the 
above that Ill be upholding this complaint in Ts favour solely on the basis that Barclays must 
make a payment to T of £150 in relation to the cancelation of the direct debit in January 
2021 as previously described - and as Barclays has already agreed.
I trust that T will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment to T of £150  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman