DRN-4142164
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance PLC (D&G) didnt remove, or give him 
the option to remove, the packaging when it replaced his freezer.
What happened
Mr D had appliance insurance with D&G for his freezer. He claimed under the policy when 
his freezer broke. D&G deemed the freezer beyond repair and provided Mr D with a link to 
order a new appliance.
On selection of his new freezer, Mr D was given the option to select installation and/or 
recycling. He didnt select either option because he had disposed of the freezer and the 
installation required was simply to plug it in.
On the day of delivery, Mr D asked the supplier whether it would take the packaging away. 
The supplier said Mr D hadnt requested that and it was a chargeable service.
Mr D contacted D&G. It said he wouldve needed to select the installation service for the 
packaging to be taken away. Mr D said that wasnt clear when he was making his selection 
and he complained that D&Gs ordering system was flawed.
D&G didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, so he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think D&G had done anything wrong because it supplied the freezer in 
line with the terms of the policy, and Mr D hadnt selected any additional services.
Mr D didnt agree. He accepted that he hadnt selected additional services, but he explained 
that the system didnt make it clear that hed need to.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Mr D will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for the 
reasons Ive set out below.
The policy terms and conditions state, If your product is replaced, you will need to 
arrange the disposal of the replaced product In all cases you will be responsible for 
installing the new product and paying related costs. 
Removal of the packaging was a related cost regardless of whether that was charged 
by the supplier or by D&G. Mr D didnt select or pay for that service so D&G isnt 
responsible for providing it.
I understand Mr D is unhappy that he wasnt offered a specific option to remove the 
packaging. D&G explained it was included as part of the installation charge. I can 
understand that Mr D didnt want to pay for installation or recycling, but unless he 
selected those options, D&G would simply deliver the freezer. I dont think thats 
unreasonable in the circumstances because there wasnt any indication that D&G 
would do anything more than deliver the freezer.
Mr D said he was inconvenienced by having to dispose of the packaging materials in 
his own bins. Under the policy, D&G was expected to replace the freezer, and thats 
what it did. If Mr D hoped for any additional services, he wouldve needed to request 
them. 
Mr Ds overriding complaint is that D&G doesnt acknowledge the flaw in its system, 
which is that there isnt a separate chargeable service for packaging removal. As Ive 
said, D&G includes it within its installation service. Although it may not have suited 
Mr Ds preference, I cant say D&G did anything wrong by including it as part of the 
installation option.
In summary, Im satisfied D&G provided the replacement freezer for Mr D in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. Therefore, I see no reason to ask D&G to do any more 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman