DRN-1934634
 
The complaint
Mrs D says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, (PDL), irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about three short term loans PDL provided to Mrs D between 
October 2009 and January 2010. Each of the loans was repayable by one repayment. 
Loan 3 wasnt repaid and was passed to a third party debt collection agency. PDL said that 
the loan had then become statute barred and the outstanding balance was wiped. 
Mrs Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment 
dateLoan 
amount Highest monthly 
repayment amount 
1. 6/10/09 18/10/09 £200  £255
2. 19/10/09 19/11/09 £250  £317.50
3. 28/1/10 Unpaid £300  £380
Mrs D said that she had to take out other loans to make her loan repayments.   
PDL, in its final response letter, offered Mrs D a £25 voucher as a gesture of goodwill, but it 
didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint about the loans. It later withdrew its offer.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs D disagreed. She said shed taken out two loans in October 2009 and a third in 
January 2010, and each time the loan amount had increased by £50. She couldnt afford to 
repay the loans as shed been made redundant in October 2009. She queried how PDL 
could claim it had done appropriate checks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Before Loans 1 to 3, PDL said that it had asked Mrs D for her monthly income. Mrs Ds 
declared monthly income was £1,500 before all the loans.
PDL also said that it had conducted a credit check but there was no credit check data 
available due to the passage of time. 
I havent seen Mrs Ds credit report. So, Im not aware of anything on that report that might 
have caused additional concerns to PDL about Mrs Ds financial situation.
I note that Mrs D said that she had to take out other payday loans from other lenders at the 
time she borrowed from PDL. But Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit check, 
the information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers 
credit report will, and it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of 
a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that 
not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, 
Mrs Ds other short term loans may not have been identified by PDLs credit check. So, this 
may explain any differences between the information provided by PDLs credit check and 
Mrs Ds actual situation.
I note that the loan repayment on Loan 1 was £255. I think that the checks PDL did before 
agreeing Loan 1 were proportionate. PDL had asked Mrs D for her monthly income. Loan 1 
was Mrs Ds first loan and the amount that she needed to repay was relatively moderate 
compared with the income shed declared.
 
So given Mrs Ds loan repayment amount and what was apparent about her circumstances 
at the time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to ask her for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show Loan 1 was unsustainable. So I dont think PDL 
was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mrs D.
Mrs D repaid Loan 1 and took out Loan 2 a day later and the loan amount had increased by 
£50. I note that PDL hasnt mentioned that it gathered any information about Mrs Ds 
monthly expenses before agreeing to lend Loan 2. But given the size of the loan repayment 
relative to Mrs Ds declared income, I think it ought to have at least asked Mrs D about her 
expenses before she applied for Loan 2 to ensure she could make the repayment without 
difficulty. 
Loan 2 was repaid on the due date and Mrs D took out Loan 3 around ten weeks later. The 
loan amount and loan repayment amount had again increased so that Mrs D was committed 
to repaying more than a quarter of her declared monthly income. So before Loan 3, I think PDL ought to have also gathered information about Mrs Ds regular expenses and any 
outstanding short term loans from other providers. 
So, I cant say that PDL carried out proportionate checks before Loans 2 and 3. The 
adjudicator had asked Mrs D for copies of her bank statements and credit report so we could 
see what better checks would have shown PDL. Mrs D didnt provide these to us. So, given I 
dont have much information from Mrs D about her circumstances at that time, I find it 
difficult to conclude that proportionate checks are likely to have shown PDL that it shouldnt 
have given Loans 2 and 3 to Mrs D.
So, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing to 
Mrs D.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman