DRN-3831603
The complaint
Miss M complains that Monzo hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to a property rental 
scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Miss M unfortunately fell victim to a scam when she 
attempted to rent a studio flat shed seen advertised on a well-known online marketplace. 
Miss M had sent a £600 Faster Payment transfer from her Monzo account to cover the first 
months rent. 
Shed been looking online for a property and found a suitable looking studio advertised at a 
monthly rental of £600 per month, including bills. She knew the area, and the price was 
reasonable.
Miss M made contact with the agent to find out more. Miss M was relocating from another 
part of the country, so an in-person viewing would be difficult. But the agent sent her video 
walkthrough of the flat. Having watched this, Miss M was satisfied this was what she was 
looking for.
Miss M says that before she checked the property details matched what showed on the Land 
Registry. She asked the agent about the owner, and it was confirmed this was who they 
were acting on behalf of, and the advertiser was the owners husband. Miss M was sent a 
tenancy agreement which looked as shed expected. She was told that in order to secure the 
rental the agent would need her to pay the first months rent upfront. 
However, a few days later, when Miss M was able to view the property and had made an 
appointment to do so, no-one turned up. She found she could no longer contact the agent. 
Miss M was eventually able to make contact with the flat owner, and it came to light that the 
agent had not been acting with the owners authority, and that Miss M had unfortunately 
been the victim of a scam. Miss M let Monzo know what had happened.
Monzo didnt refund Miss M. It didnt dispute that she had been the victim of a scam, but said 
that she didnt take enough care when making the payment. 
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It said Miss M made the payment without having a 
reasonable basis for believing she was paying a legitimate agent for a genuine rental  and 
in particular, didnt think the evidence Miss M had relied on was sufficient to have proved 
this. It said it had shown her a message saying the account she was paying was a personal 
account rather than a business account, as well as an effective scam warning message.
One of our Investigators looked into Miss Ms complaint and thought it ought to be upheld.
The Investigator didnt believe Monzo had fairly assessed Miss Ms claim under the CRM 
Code. He didnt agree that Monzo had been able to establish Miss M made the payment 
without a reasonable basis for believing she was entering into a legitimate rental agreement 
with a legitimate agent. He didnt think Monzo had provided an effective warning in line with 
the CRM Codes definition. 
Monzo maintained its position. So, I have been asked to make a final decision on the 
outcome of Miss Ms complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Miss M 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss M 
lost.
The money was sent from Miss Ms current account. It is not clear how Miss M would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. But if 
Monzo had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Miss M 
would not have been deprived of it for the time she has. So, Monzo should also pay 
interest on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest 
should apply from the date Monzo first declined to refund Miss M, to the date of 
settlement.
Im satisfied that Monzo hasnt established that Miss M made these payments without 
holding a reasonable basis for believing that she was paying an agent for a legitimate rental 
or that she ignored an effective scam warning. I consider the steps she took were 
proportionate in the circumstances. I will go on to explain why I have reached this finding.
Ive taken into account the evidence provided by both sides. Under the terms of the CRM 
Code, the victim of an APP scam such as this should reimbursed unless the bank is able to 
establish that one (or more) of the exceptions to reimbursement can be applied.
Here Monzo argues that Miss M was persuaded by evidence that didnt conclusively show 
the rental or agent were genuine. But while I agree that none of the evidence Miss M saw 
could have provided conclusive proof of this, that is not the test required under the CRM 
Code. Miss M merely required a reasonable basis for believing this was legitimate. 
And while none of the steps she took could give conclusive proof, Im satisfied that what 
Miss M relied on was proportionate to the value and the wider circumstances of this 
transaction. If there had been any glaring red flags then I might think differently, but here I 
am satisfied that there was nothing that ought to have caused Miss M particular concern. 
Monzo has pointed to the fact that Miss M received a mismatch message regarding the 
receiving account type. Ive considered whether that ought to have caused her particular 
concern. But in the circumstances and given the purported agents explanation that they were the owners husband, I dont think it unreasonable for Miss M to have assumed that 
was the explanation for the account being a personal rather than business account.
Ive also reviewed the generic scam warning message Monzo says it showed Miss M when 
she made the payment. Im not satisfied this meets the minimum standards set by the CRM 
Code for an effective warning. These require such a warning to be specific and impactful, 
which I do not think this was. Neither do I think this was likely to have made difference to 
preventing a scam such as this from succeeding. So, I dont consider Monzo can rely on the 
effective warning exception as a reason to deny reimbursement. 
Overall, and taking into account all the circumstances here, Im satisfied that Miss M made 
the payment with a reasonable basis for believing she was paying a genuine agent for a 
genuine rental. That exception cannot fairly be applied by Monzo. And I am not satisfied that 
Monzo has established it may rely on any of the other exceptions to full reimbursement 
under the CRM Code.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Miss Ms 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Miss M:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, this being the sum of £600 less 
any sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the bank 
originally declined Miss Ms claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman