DRN-3944258
The complaint
Mr R has complained that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) refused to carry out 
a chargeback request for two payments he had made to a tradesman for work that was 
being carried out on his driveway and garden.
What happened
Mr R had contracted a tradesman to carry out work on his driveway and garden.
To pay for the work, Mr R took out a £7,000 personal loan with NatWest. The proceeds of 
the loan were transferred into Mr Rs current account.
Mr R made two payments to the tradesman via bank transfer. These consisted of an initial 
deposit of £1,700 on 20 June 2022, and a further payment of £3,400 on 24 June 2022 upon 
the commencement of the work.
However, Mr R says that after carrying out some work, the tradesmen took the machinery 
away and the tradesmen refused to return unless Mr R paid them more money  which Mr R 
refused to do.
Mr R contacted NatWest to see if it was able to assist him. NatWest responded to say that it 
was unable to carry out a chargeback and suggested Mr R contact trading standards and the 
Police.
After referring his complaint to our service, one of our adjudicators assessed the complaint 
and he didnt think that NatWest did anything wrong, and so was unable to find in Mr Rs 
favour. 
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators assessment  so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I have to say that I feel a great deal of sympathy for the position 
that Mr R was in with the tradesman that hed contracted to complete the work on his 
driveway and garden. I have no doubt that this matter has caused Mr R a great deal of 
stress. But having said that, I would like to make it clear that this complaint only concerns 
whether NatWest has acted fairly and reasonably in this matter. And having reviewed 
everything, unfortunately for Mr R, I cant say that NatWest has done anything wrong. This is 
largely for the same reasons that the adjudicator gave.
To explain, firstly, if it is the case that the loan that Mr R took out was a standard personal 
loan - which looks to be the case here - then I cant reasonably instruct NatWest to simply 
write off the loan because Mr R didnt receive what hed paid for from the proceeds of the 
loan. In simple terms, the personal loan would still need to be repaid regardless of what Mr R 
chose to spend the loan on.
However, if it is the case that Mr R is experiencing financial difficulties and may struggle to 
make the repayments on the loan, I would urge Mr R to discuss this with NatWest to see 
what support it may be able to provide him. If it is the case that Mr R is experiencing financial 
difficulties, NatWest is obliged to deal with Mr R fairly and with forbearance.
Turning now to the main basis of this complaint, I understand that Mr R attempted to make a 
chargeback claim for the two payments hed made to the tradesman. 
As has already been explained by both NatWest and the adjudicator - a chargeback is the 
process whereby a payment for goods or services - paid for using a debit or credit card - can 
be returned to the cardholder in the event that (amongst other things) the goods or services 
paid for were not provided; they were faulty; or the amount charged was incorrect.
However, as Mr R, made the payments in question by direct bank transfer, rather than 
paying with a debit or credit card, the chargeback process wouldnt be an option for the 
method of payment used.
I can see that NatWest also considered whether the payments Mr R made to the tradesman 
could be considered under the relevant rules concerning scams. The Lending Standards 
Boards voluntary Contingency Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which NatWest has 
signed up to was in force at the time Mr R made these payments. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. But the CRM Code is quite 
explicit that it doesnt apply to all payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Both NatWest and our adjudicator felt the payment Mr R made formed part of a civil dispute 
and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. Mr R strongly disagrees. He feels the 
tradesman has scammed him. 
In order to conclude that the payment Mr R made was part of a scam, Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied from the available evidence that the tradesman he was using was not 
legitimate and he had set out to defraud him. But I dont think, based on what I know, that I 
can safely conclude that.
I have not seen sufficient evidence to establish that the tradesman set out with the intent to 
defraud Mr R. Mr R has confirmed the tradesman did start the work and returned to tidy up 
the garden and driveway. Im also mindful that reviews online for the tradesman are, in the 
most part, positive and it seems they are still available to provide a service.I understand that Mr R has raised the matter with trading standards and has also made the 
Police aware. But Im not aware of any criminal investigation into the tradesman by the 
Police, or any other authority, which would lead me to safely conclude there was an intent to 
defraud. 
On balance, there is not enough for me to say that there was an intention from the start for 
Mr R to have been defrauded. Given this and that the situation doesnt display the hallmarks 
most typically associated with this type of scam, I dont think it was unfair for NatWest to take 
the view that the situation formed part of a civil dispute. 
All things considered, on balance, Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant 
fairly or reasonably ask NatWest to refund the money Mr R has lost, as I dont think NatWest 
treated Mr R unfairly when it said the payments, he made were not covered by the CRM 
Code.
Because of these reasons, whilst I sympathise with the position that Mr R is in, Im unable to 
say that NatWest has done anything wrong, or has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman