DRN-2970744
The complaint
Mr H says Apfin Ltd trading as Cashasap.co.uk lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he 
couldnt afford the loans and they made his financial situation worse. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about six payday loans Cashasap provided to Mr H between March 2019 
to March 2020. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in the 
table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 14/03/2019 £150 3 31/05/2019
2 20/07/2019 £100 1 31/07/2019
3 02/08/2019 £200 1 30/08/2019
4 31/08/2019 £300 3 29/11/2019
5 30/11/2019 £300 3 29/02/2020
6 03/03/2020 £300 3 outstanding
Before bringing the complaint to this Service Cashasap had offered to refund the interest 
and charges on what I think are the last three loans (its not entirely clear). Mr H didnt 
accept this offer and it was withdrawn. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He thought that the credit checks Cashasap did before 
loan 1 showed that Mr H had a significant amount of other short-term lending. And he 
thought that Mr H had become reliant on the lending by loan 5. 
Cashasap disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. In summary it said that: 
The checks it did showed that Mr H had a surplus of income before all of the lending. 
The bank statements that it obtained confirmed what Mr H had told it about his 
income and expenditure. And so, they confirmed that the loans were affordable. 
Whilst the credit file did show other short-term lending this wasnt shown on the bank 
statements. So its reasonable to think the credit report might be incorrect. 
It didnt see how a consumer could provide accurate information, or it could assess 
the lending adequately where this is the case. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashasap needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashasap should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint Ive explained why below.
As our adjudicator explained, Cashasaps credit checks showed that Mr H had taken 
significant amounts of other short-term lending before it approved these loans. This would be 
due to be repaid at the same time as the Cashasap loans. 
Cashasap hasnt disputed that these other debts existed at the time. And Mr H has provided 
information, such as a recent credit report, that shows that they did. And so, the reality of 
Mr Hs situation was that Mr H was unlikely to have been able to sustainably repay this 
lending due to his other commitments. 
Cashasap has essentially said that it considered the information that Mr H had provided, and 
it seemed reasonable. And further to this, what he said was supported by the bank 
statements he provided which also showed his income was as hed said and his 
expenditures also matched what was leaving his account. So, it says it was reasonable to 
assume it had a good picture of his financial situation. And the information about other 
lending on the credit report may not have been entirely correct or significant. I agree that the income, and some of expenditure information, match reasonably closely to 
what Mr H declared. And this would make the loans affordable. So, I can see why Cashasap 
has said this
But the bank statements also show that Mr H was transferring significant amounts of money 
elsewhere each month. I dont have full details of where this was, but it is a reasonable 
assumption that any debt repayments were being made elsewhere. Which seems to have 
been the case. 
So, I think its reasonable to say that Cashasap had information that showed it wasnt clear 
to it where a large proportion of Mr Hs income was being spent. And it also had information 
that he was using other short-term lenders. It should have been clear to it that it didnt have 
full information about Mr Hs circumstances, and he was likely to be having problems 
managing his money. So, it either shouldnt have lent, or fully determined what lending Mr H 
had. Either of these wouldve led to it not lending to Mr H for loans 1 to 4. 
Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 5 and I think the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending would likely be 
unsustainable. So, I think Cashasap was irresponsible to continue lending after this point. 
Cashasap hasnt commented further on this aspect of the adjudicators opinion and Ive not 
got anything further to add. 
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 1 to 6 and Cashasap should put things 
right.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashasap should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr H, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashasaps liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Cashasap shouldnt have given Mr H loans 1 to 6.
If Cashasap has sold the outstanding debts Cashasap should buy these back if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Cashasap is not able to buy the debts back then 
Cashasap should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.A) Cashasap should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Cashasap should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Cashasap should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr H having made 
overpayments then Cashasap should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Cashasap should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Cashasap should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H. Cashasap 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Cashasap has already written-
off.
E) Cashasap should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in 
relation to loans 1 to 4. The overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing for loans 5 to 6 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Hs credit file. Cashasap does not have to remove loan 6 from Mr Hs credit file until it has 
been repaid, but Cashasap should still remove any adverse information recorded about 
these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashasap to deduct tax from this interest. Cashasap 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax Cashasap has deducted, if he asks for 
one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Apfin Ltd should put things right 
by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman