DRN-2438841
The complaint
Mr A complains that a campervan he obtained through a conditional sale agreement with 
PCF Bank Limited is not of satisfactory quality. He wants PCF to accept his rejection of the 
vehicle.
What happened
Mr A obtained a second-hand campervan through a conditional sale agreement with PCF. 
Within three weeks he reported that the central vent window would not close and that the 
perspex glass was cracked and broken. The supplying garage offered to fit a new roof 
window, but Mr A would have to pay for it, and hed have to drive the campervan to the 
garage. Mr A complained to PCF and it arranged for an independent inspection. The 
inspector concluded that there was a fault and that this was present when the campervan 
was supplied. But PCF said a pre-sale inspection report showed the windows and skylight 
were fine and that, as the campervan was 14 years old, the problem was due to wear and 
tear and was unlikely to have been present at the point of sale.
I have summarised this very briefly as both parties are familiar with what happened, and it 
was set out in detail by our investigator.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that the 
fault was developing when the campervan was supplied and that this meant the campervan 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. She thought that, because Mr A asserted his right to reject the 
campervan within 30 days, it was fair that PCF accepted his rejection. She thought the 
agreement should be cancelled, all payments refunded, any adverse information on Mr As 
credit file be removed, and that PCF should pay Mr A £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
PCF did not agree. It replied, in some detail, to explain why it didnt consider the fault was 
present at the point of supply. It said it wanted to seek further clarity from the independent 
inspector about the conclusions hed reached. But PCF has not provided any further 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. PCF is the supplier of goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have to 
be persuaded that the campervan wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract 
has taken place.
In deciding whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its 
age and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault/s materialised.
Both parties agree there is a fault with the central vent window. And PCF accepts that this 
means the campervan is no longer fit for purpose. But it doesnt agree that the fault was 
present at the point of supply  meaning it isnt responsible for putting it right. Ive considered 
this very carefully. Having done so, I agree with our investigator that this is something that 
PCF is responsible for. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr A obtained the campervan during last years national lockdown meaning he couldnt 
start using it straight away. To ensure it didnt deteriorate, he regularly started the 
engine. And, to keep it aired, he periodically opened the central vent window. Its not 
clear how many times he opened and shut it. But around three weeks after the 
campervan had been supplied, the window stuck when it was open. Although the 
campervan was around 14 years old, I dont think Mr A would reasonably have expected 
for the roof window to fail so soon after the campervan was supplied to him.
The independent engineer found that the window mechanism was seized. His report 
concluded that this defect was present or developing when the campervan was supplied. 
PCF has called into question the reliability of the reports conclusions. The report was 
carried out by an independent third party. Ive not seen anything to persuade me that 
I shouldnt place reliance on its findings.
PCF says it has evidence that the fault was not present when the campervan was 
supplied  because the supplying garage carried out pre-sale checks and no issue with 
the central vent window was noted. And it seems that, initially, Mr A was able to close it. 
But where there is a dispute, its reasonable for me to rely on the conclusions of the 
independent third party. And the independent engineer concluded this would have been 
present when the vehicle was supplied.
The campervan was second hand and its reasonable to expect some wear and tear 
issues over time. But Mr A reported this fault very soon after the campervan had been 
supplied to him and before hed had the opportunity to use it. I think he reasonably 
should have expected that he could enjoy use of the campervan
For these reasons, I dont find the campervan was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
It doesnt automatically follow that PCF should accept Mr As rejection of the vehicle. 
A repair maybe a more proportionate resolution. Ive thought about this carefully. Mr A asked 
to reject the campervan within the first 30 days. Its unfortunate that, when Mr A reported the 
fault to the supplying garage, it offered to carry out a repair, but it didnt offer to pay for the 
replacement window. I think a repair at that stage  with no cost or inconvenience for Mr A 
may have been a suitable remedy. But Mr A has not had any use of the campervan since he 
obtained it. And, because of the fault, its likely that some rain damage has been caused, 
despite Mr As best efforts to prevent this.
PCF has detailed what it thinks Mr As rights are under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and 
the intention of the legislation. As noted earlier, I have taken the law  including the Consumer Rights Act - into account in arriving at my decision. But I have also considered 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances here.
Overall, I think its fair that PCF accepts Mr As rejection of the campervan.
PCF should cancel the agreement with nothing further for Mr A to pay and remove any 
adverse information from his credit file. It should refund the deposit Mr A paid, plus interest, 
and  because he hasnt had any use of the campervan, I think its fair that PCF should 
refund all the payments hes made, plus interest. Mr A will have had to pay to insure the 
campervan and PCF should refund any payments hes made, on receipt of evidence from 
Mr A.
Mr A should be compensated for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. I agree 
with our investigator that £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PCF Bank Limited should:
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
2. Collect the campervan at no cost to Ms A.
3. Refund the deposit paid, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. *
4. Refund all monthly payments made, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. *
5. Pay Mr A £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
6. On receipt of evidence from Mr A, refund his costs for insuring the campervan.
7. Remove any adverse information about the finance agreement from Mr As credit file or 
remove the conditional sale agreement altogether.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires PCF Bank Limited to take off tax from this interest. PCF 
Bank Limited must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman