DRN-3236628
The complaint
Mr W, through his representative, has complained that Tilney Discretionary Investment 
Management Limited advised him to invest his pension in unsuitable investment funds. 
What happened
Mr Ws representative complained to Tilney on his behalf by letter dated 6 February 2020. It 
said, in summary, that Mr W had been advised to invest in a personal pension in 1996 by a 
firm of advisers that Tilney was now responsible for. It said Mr Ws contributions had been 
invested in a single, complex and high-cost managed fund. It said it thought this was 
unsuitable and lacked diversification.  
Mr Ws representative said Mr W hadnt been informed of all the risks and costs associated 
with the investment. And he also hadnt been properly informed of the alternative options 
available. This included, for example, low-cost index funds offering market returns for equity 
and fixed-interest markets. It said these were lower cost and lower risk than actively 
managed funds.
Tilney didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said, in summary, that it didnt hold any records on 
the advice complained about. It said it had asked Mr Ws representative to provide copies of 
any information or documents that suggested the advice was unsuitable. It had provided a 
copy of the Application Form signed by Mr W on 6 August 1996; a Key Features Document; 
a Cancellation notice and a Policy Schedule. It said these documents only confirmed that the 
policy was set up. It said no evidence had been provided about Mr Ws financial 
circumstances or objectives at the time to enable it to conclude that the advice was 
unsuitable.
Tilney said as it understood that Mr Ws objective was to save for retirement, a personal 
pension would have seemed the obvious product for him. It said Mr Ws contributions were 
split 50/50 between a Managed Fund and a With-Profits Fund. It didnt think this lacked 
diversification; they were invested in a variety of asset classes. It considered both funds 
were suitable for Mr Ws circumstances. 
Tilney said it didnt think it had been demonstrated that the advice was unsuitable, or that it 
hadnt met the required standards at the time. So it didnt feel that the complaint was 
justified.
Mr Ws complaint was subsequently referred to us. It was considered by one of our 
investigators. The investigator sent her assessment of the complaint to both parties on 25 
November 2020. She didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said, in 
summary, that the contributions were invested into two separate funds which were invested 
in different asset classes. She thought this provided sufficient diversification. 
The investigator said Mr Ws primary aim was to save for retirement. She said whilst there 
may have been other suitable alternative funds available, she didnt think the funds 
recommended were unduly risky or inappropriate for Mr W.
Mr Ws representative didnt accept the investigators findings. It acknowledged that Mr Ws 
contributions werent all invested in a single fund. But it still thought there was insufficient 
diversification, and considered that Mr W was exposed to unnecessary costs. It said the 
same asset allocation could have been achieved with a portfolio of low-cost index funds. It 
said such a portfolio would have had lower risk (i.e. no stock selection risk or market-timing 
risk) and with higher expected returns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice 
at the time.
The pension was arranged in 1996 and the documentary evidence available from the time is 
very limited.  Where, as here, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, Ive reached my 
decision on the balance of probabilities; in other words, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that the personal pension arrangement itself was 
appropriate. Whats in dispute is the suitability of the underlying funds that Mr W invested 
into. 
As explained by the investigator, theres no documentary evidence to show that the firm 
definitely advised Mr W about how to invest his contributions. But given the evidence shows 
that the firm arranged the pension plan, I think its more likely than not that it would also have 
advised Mr W about the underlying investments. 
However Mr Ws contributions were invested 50% in a Managed Fund and 50% in a With-
Profits Fund. These funds were invested in a spread of asset classes, and in my view 
provided appropriate diversification for Mr Ws regular contributions. 
Although its not possible to determine with any reasonable degree of certainty what 
information the adviser provided to Mr W about the funds, I think whats key in deciding this 
complaint is whether the funds were unsuitable for Mr Ws circumstances at the time. 
I accept that there were likely to be other funds that Mr W could have invested into that 
would have been suitable for his circumstances. And these could have included the lower 
cost index funds suggested by Mr Ws representative. However I dont think it follows that as 
there were suitable alternatives, the funds that Mr W invested into were unsuitable; it will 
often be the case that there are other suitable funds available.
Im not persauded that the funds were unsuitable because index-based funds with lower 
costs were available.  The logical conclusion of that argument would be that no actively 
managed funds would be deemed suitable compared to lower cost index based funds. 
Although the benefits of actively managed funds over tracker (index) funds and their 
associated costs is subject to debate within the industry, different professionals have 
different reasonable opinions, and I dont agree theres a consensus on the issue. Some 
actively managed funds provide better returns than index based funds; even after charges. 
So in summary, I dont think the combination of funds selected was unsuitable for Mr W at 
the time; in my view they didnt present excessive risks for Mr W overall. And Im not 
persuaded that the funds were unsuitable because there were different lower cost funds available.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman