DRN-4426860
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy with the service she received from Aviva Insurance Limited when she 
wanted to increase the duration of a trip.
What happened
Ms K has a travel insurance policy linked to a package bank account. The standard 
maximum duration of a trip is 31 days but there are options to increase this to a maximum of 
120 days. Ms K wanted to extend her trip duration and complaint that Aviva gave her 
misleading and unclear information about the extensions and upgrades available. She wants 
Aviva to refund her the additional £126 she paid for the trip extension. 
Aviva looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. They thought that Ms K 
had been given accurate information about the options available. Unhappy, Ms K 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think 
the information Ms K was given was contradictory or misleading. 
Ms K didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. She was unhappy that 
Aviva didnt have a record of a voicemail shed left asking for a call back. And, in summary, 
she said that the information provided was unclear.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva needed to provide Ms K with 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint because: 
I dont agree that the wording around the extensions and upgrades available is 
unclear. I think it is sufficiently clear that the extension covers a trip of up to 120 
days. I dont think it suggests that this is in addition to the standard cover. 
Ive considered what Ms K has said about the wording of the trip extensions and 
upgrades. In her complaint form Ms K said she was already paying for 31 days cover 
so should have only had to purchase the 45 days extra cover needed for her trip 
duration. She says she shouldnt have had to pay for the more expensive trip 
extension of 75 days which assumes she didnt have cover for 31 days already. I 
havent found her representations on this point persuasive. The policy wording, and 
the information online, refers to trips of up to a specified number of days. This is 
also how lots of travel insurance policies work and is common industry practice. So, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Aviva have treated Ms K unfairly. 
Im satisfied it is most likely that Ms K spoke to Aviva over the phone in December 
2022, some time before her planned trip. She was given quotes for the various trip 
extensions. Those prices correspond with the information Ms K has provided in 
screenshots. So, based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Ms K was 
quoted a different or lower price online. 
Aviva has no record of the voicemail Ms K has referred to. Ms K doesnt have any 
evidence to demonstrate the call was made, which isnt surprising given the passage 
of time. However, I dont think this is central to the outcome of this complaint. Thats 
because, as Ive outlined above, I think Ms K was given enough information to decide 
if the trip extension Aviva could offer her was right for her. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman