DRN-1728295
The complaint
Mrs D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has unreasonably refused to convert 
her mortgage from capital repayment to interest-only payment, and has failed to grasp the 
gravity of her financial situation and to work with her to find a solution to her problems.
To resolve her complaint she wants NatWest to:
apologise for the way it has handled the matter; 
convert the capital repayment mortgage to interest-only, ideally backdated to August 
2017, until she is aged 55 and will either downsize to a less expensive property, or re-
mortgage to a lifetime mortgage; and
make a trouble and upset payment to compensate her for the distress she has suffered.
What happened
Mrs D and her late husband took out a capital repayment mortgage with NatWest. I havent 
been told when this was, but it must have been before 22 January 2014 as they took a new 
interest rate product on that date.
Mrs D is represented in her complaint by her financial adviser, whom I will call Mr P. On 
5 June 2019 Mr P made a written complaint to NatWest on her behalf. 
He said Mrs D had met with a NatWest adviser at the branch in August 2017. She had told 
the adviser that Mr D had a terminal illness with only 10-12 months to live, and that there 
would be financial difficulties. She had requested a credit facility to fund a holiday. NatWest 
had declined this as being unaffordable. Mrs D had told the adviser she would therefore 
have no choice but to rely upon credit cards to help ease the situation should she and Mr D 
experience financial difficulties, as had proved to be the case.
Mr P said that in November 2017 NatWest had declined a request for a payment holiday, 
and in January 2018 Mr D had died. In May 2019 Mrs D had had a further meeting at the 
branch to request help from NatWest but was told there was nothing it could do. 
Mr P said he accepted that the loan requested in August 2017 was outside NatWests
lending criteria, but he complained that NatWest should have recommended converting 
Mrs Ds capital repayment mortgage to interest-only. This would have saved her about £550 
per month and reduced her credit card debt. He said NatWest should also have offered to 
transfer Mrs Ds NatWest credit card to a 0% deal and advised her to seek advice about 
making an arrangement with her other four credit card providers.
Mr P proposed the following steps to resolve the complaint:
in keeping with MCOB 11.6.43R, NatWest should convert the capital repayment 
mortgage to interest-only and backdate this change to August 2017;
NatWest should refund the backdate saving to Mrs Ds current account so that she could 
use it to pay off the NatWest credit card and reduce her other credit card debts;
Mrs D would approach StepChange with a view to negotiating an arrangement with her 
other credit card providers;
in January 2021 once Mrs D was 55, Mr P would arrange a lifetime mortgage to 
re-mortgage the NatWest interest-only borrowing and consolidate any residual credit 
card borrowing if that were in her best interests at that time.
NatWest replied to the complaint by letter dated 13 June 2019. Regarding the request for a 
payment holiday in November 2017, NatWest didnt offer that on the type of mortgage which 
Mrs D had. 
It said Mrs Ds proposal didnt satisfy requirements for affordability, income or credible 
repayment strategy. If NatWest were to agree to the proposal, Mrs Ds mortgage debt would 
immediately increase by £11,000 and it could be considered that NatWest wasnt acting in 
her best interests. The exit strategy wasnt in any way guaranteed, although the substantial 
equity might make it likely that a lifetime mortgage application would succeed.
It may have been possible to treat the sale of Mrs Ds property as the repayment vehicle as 
there was enough equity, but the other considerations meant the proposal couldnt proceed.
Mrs D wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to our service. Mr P said that MCOB 
11.6.43 directed that MCOB 11.6 41(1) didnt prevent a mortgage lender, when appropriate, 
from making a temporary concession, by which it accepted payment of interest only, to a 
customer who was in arrears or had a payment shortfall, or was at risk of arrears or a 
payment shortfall, on a regulated mortgage contract.
Mr P said Mrs D was temporarily in financial difficulty owing to a constrained cash flow and 
her husband having passed away. She was therefore at risk of arrears or a payment shortfall 
on a regulated mortgage contract. Her property was worth about £370,000 and the amount 
owed to NatWest was about £52,000. The equity would enable her to buy a smaller home 
outright once she was emotionally strong enough to move on. She would alternatively have 
the option to re-mortgage to a lifetime mortgage from her 55th birthday in January 2021. In 
the meantime she desperately needed to improve her day to day cash flow.
Our investigator said that NatWest had since agreed to extend the term of Mrs D's mortgage 
which reduced her monthly payments from £687 to £319 - saving her a total of £368 per 
month. This had been accepted by Mrs D. However Mr P had said this didnt go far enough 
and he still thought a conversion to interest-only would save her about £250 per month.
The investigator said NatWest had tried to help Mrs D when her husband died, but could 
have provided the help she needed when she first asked in August 2017 and again in 2018.
She didnt think NatWest acted fairly in 2017 when Mrs D requested a payment holiday. 
NatWest had explained that the type of mortgage Mrs D had wouldnt allow a payment
holiday but it made no proposals and didnt consider any forbearance options at the time.
The investigator would have expected NatWest to discuss Mrs Ds financial situation and 
see what she could afford to pay and try to reach a payment arrangement.
Mrs D was asking for a short-term switch to interest-only until her 55th birthday in January 
2021. At that point she would either downsize to a less expensive property or remortgage
to a lifetime mortgage. There would be enough equity to downsize and the investigator 
thought NatWest could have considered an interest-only period as a forbearance measure, without the need for an affordability assessment or repayment vehicle under the MMR 
regulations. NatWest also struggled to see beyond its internal policy to require interest-only 
mortgage customers to earn £75,000 per year.
The investigator recommended NatWest pay Mrs D £1,000 for the trouble and upset it
caused her by not engaging with her about a payment proposal or forbearance options in
August 2017 despite her asking for help many times.
The investigator didnt think NatWest should still consider changing to interest-only
until Mrs Ds 55th birthday. The term extension agreed in July 2019 had put her in a better 
position to maintain her payments. If she wished to downsize, she could still do that. She 
didnt need to be on an interest-only mortgage to do so.
Mrs D, through Mr P, didnt accept the investigators recommendation and asked for review 
by an ombudsman. Mr P didnt understand how the proposed solution provided a robust 
remedy for the problems identified. The only realistic remedy was to convert the mortgage to 
interest-only. Given the current situation with Covid-19 and the likelihood that this would 
persist for some time, Mrs D was looking to re-mortgage to a lifetime mortgage as soon as 
she was eligible in January 2021, rather than downsize. A saving of some £200 per month 
until then would make all the difference as she continued to struggle to make ends meet. 
This was more important than the capital reduction over that period, which was likely to be 
funded by credit card debt anyway.
I took a different view of the complaint from the investigator. So I decided to issue a 
provisional decision, setting out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both 
parties have now responded and so I issue my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Mr P has mentioned  MCOB,  which  is a set of rules  made  by the Financial  Conduct  
Authority  for the conduct  of mortgage  business.
Rule  11.6.41  says:
(1) A mortgage lender may only enter into an interest-only mortgage, or switch a repayment 
mortgage onto an interest-only basis for all or part of its term, if:
(a) it has evidence that the customer will have in place a clearly understood and credible 
repayment strategy; and
(b) as far as it is reasonably able to assess at that time, the repayment strategy has the 
potential to repay the capital borrowed and any interest reasonably expected to be accrued 
under the interest-only mortgage.
Rule 11.6.43 says:
MCOB 11.6.41(1) does not prevent a mortgage lender, when appropriate, from making a 
temporary concession, by which he accepts payment of interest only, with a customer who is 
in arrears or has a payment shortfall, or is at risk of arrears or a payment shortfall, on a 
regulated mortgage contract.Mrs D doesnt,  as far as I know,  have  a payment  shortfall.  But on the basis  of 
assertions  by Mr P which  NatWest  hasnt  challenged,  that appears  to be because  she 
has properly  prioritised  her mortgage  repayments  over other  expenditure  and has 
consequently  incurred  credit  card debt.  Having  considered  all the submissions  made,  
I am persuaded  that Mrs D is a customer  who is at risk of arrears  or a payment  
shortfall,  on a regulated  mortgage  contract.
Accordingly  its open  to NatWest  under  the regulations  to temporarily  accept  payment  
of interest  only.  And I dont  consider  that its acting  fairly  by refusing  to do that on the 
grounds  that Mrs Ds income  or potential  income  is less than £75,000  per year.
NatWest  says  its not confident  that the exit strategy  is in any way guaranteed  
although  they [the underwriters]  did recognise  the substantial  equity  in the property  
may make  it likely  that a lifetime  mortgage  application  would  be successful.
But the answer  to that is that if Mrs D fails to apply  for or obtain  a lifetime  mortgage  
after January  2021  then on the basis  of the order  which  I provisionally  propose,  the 
mortgage  will revert  to a capital  repayment  basis  anyway.
Mr P also proposes  that in keeping  with MCOB  11.6.43,  NatWest  should  backdate  the 
change  to August  2017,  and refund  the backdate  saving  to Mrs Ds current  account  
so that she can use it to pay off the NatWest  credit  card and reduce  her other  credit  
card debts.  But using  the saving  to (in effect)  consolidate  debt would  itself  fall foul of 
NatWests  lending  policy  and I dont  consider  its position  here to be unreasonable.
Therefore my provisional view is that NatWest should convert Mrs Ds mortgage to 
interest-only payment until 31 March 2021 which should allow enough time for her to obtain  
a lifetime  mortgage  after her 55th birthday  if she can, and redeem  the NatWest  
mortgage.  Should  she fail to redeem  the NatWest  mortgage,  then it would  revert  to a 
capital  repayment  basis  after 31 March  2021.
As regards  compensation  for the trouble  and upset  caused  to Mrs D, I see no reason  to 
depart  from the investigators  recommendation.
the responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted the principle that NatWest should convert Mrs Ds mortgage to 
interest-only payment until 31 March 2021. However they both submitted that the conversion 
should be backdated, but to different dates.
Mrs D said through Mr P that shed requested an ombudsmans decision on 7 April 2020 
because the investigator hadnt recommended that NatWest agree to convert the mortgage 
from capital repayment to interest only. Now that I had agreed to that conversion, she asked 
that it be backdated to 7 April 2020. 
She appreciated the volume of complaints which our service was receiving. But if the 
investigator had recommended the conversion in April, Mrs D would have already been 
enjoying a significant saving of £250 per month.NatWest accepted my provisional decision and sent a spreadsheet showing how the account 
would be re-worked. However the calculation appeared to assume that the conversion would 
be backdated to 1 April 2017. NatWest confirmed, when I queried this, that that was its 
intention. The proposal was to convert the mortgage to interest-only with effect from 
1 April 2017, thus increasing the capital sum owing from £48,333 to £65,722 and in the 
process refund Mrs D £16,340 including the November 2020 payment.
As this wasnt what Id proposed in the provisional decision, I directed that Mrs D be given 
the opportunity to respond. Mr P replied that the net effect would be that Mrs D would owe 
£1,049 more than she currently owed. He said this couldn't be right, because my provisional 
direction was for conversion to interest-only and the investigator had confirmed in an email 
of 3 December 2020 that this was to be backdated to 7 April 2020. Mr P then put forward 
some calculations based upon the conversion taking place on that date.
However this wasnt what Id proposed either, and it hadnt been confirmed in the 
investigators email of 3 December 2020 as Mr P had suggested. NatWest responded:
The mortgage is to be backdated to 2017 not 2020. Mrs D has been overpaying since 2017 
and that is why we need to put her back in the position she would have been in. This 
overpayment is due back to the customer and the mortgage balance will increase back to 
what it would have been in 2017.
This seems to me to be correct, based on the conversion being backdated to 2017 which is 
what Mr P originally proposed in his letter to NatWest of 5 June 2019. Mr P acknowledges 
this, but comments that if NatWest had offered it in 2017, Mrs D wouldnt have incurred so 
much credit card debt. He submits that NatWest should pay her credit card interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The final decision in this case is now to proceed on the basis that NatWest should fairly have 
complied with Mrs Ds request for conversion to interest-only in 2017. She is to be put in the 
position she would have been in if it had complied. In essence, this boils down to refunding 
her capital repayments and increasing the mortgage debt by the same amount.
I dont consider that fairness also requires that NatWest take responsibility for Mrs Ds 
having to borrow money to cover her living expenses as well as the capital repayments. She 
was contractually obliged to make those payments. The credit card borrowing was a 
consequence of her own financial position. It wasnt a necessary consequence of NatWests 
initial refusal to change the terms of her mortgage. And NatWest wasnt obliged to make that 
change.
Putting things right
I confirm my provisional view that NatWest should convert Mrs Ds mortgage to interest-only 
payment until 31 March 2021 which should allow enough time for her to obtain a lifetime 
mortgage after her 55th birthday if she can, and redeem the NatWest mortgage. Should she 
fail to redeem the NatWest mortgage, then it would revert to a capital repayment basis after 
31 March 2021.
However that conversion should be backdated and the account re-worked as proposed in 
the calculations provided by NatWest on 29 October 2020, updated to the date of the 
conversion, and with any consequential repayment being made to Mrs D.As regards compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs D, I see no reason to
depart from the investigators recommendation.
Id expect NatWest to continue to treat Ms D fairly if, for example, there is any delay in her 
re-mortgaging as she plans. And it should also act in line with FCA regulations relating to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, as they exist now and change from time to time, in its dealings with 
Mrs D.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order National Westminster Bank Plc to 
convert Mrs Ds mortgage as directed above and pay her compensation of £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman