DRN-2455812
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc are holding him liable for transactions on his 
credit card that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. He is also unhappy with the 
service he received.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. On 29 July 2020 Mr S called Capital One to report two 
transactions (from earlier the same day) on his credit card that he said he didnt recognise. 
The transactions he disputed were both card payments made using chip and PIN. One was 
for £498.20 at 11.30am and the other was for £140.10 at 1.22pm. Mr S said hed lost his 
card and that his PIN had been written down in his wallet. 
Capital One blocked Mr Ss card and ordered a replacement. They said they would credit his 
account with the disputed amounts whilst they investigated. Capital One later concluded that 
Mr S had authorised the payments and reapplied them to his account on 4 August 2020. 
They said Mr S had checked his PIN online numerous times in the months prior to the 
disputed transactions, so they didnt accept that he would have written his PIN down and 
kept it in his wallet. They also said that he had logged in to their app on his phone using his 
fingerprint between the two disputed transactions, but he didnt report the first, until after the 
second had also taken place. 
Mr S complained, he added that he was unhappy with how he was spoken to by the call 
handler explaining the decision. Capital One didnt agree that poor service had been 
provided and maintained their position in relation to the disputed transactions. Mr S 
disagreed and referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary he agreed 
with Capital One and for essentially the same reasons. Mr S has asked that an ombudsman 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be disappointing for Mr S, so Ill explain 
why. 
Im satisfied by the technical evidence provided by Capital One that the transactions were 
correctly authenticated. That is that the card was entered into the merchants terminals and 
the correct PIN was entered. But that isnt enough, on its own, to conclude that Mr S 
consented to the payments. 
However, taking all the evidence into consideration, I do think its more likely than not that 
Mr S consented to the transactions. I find the technical evidence more persuasive than 
Mr Ss testimony. 
Mr S logged into his app (using biometric authentication) and viewed his recent activity after 
the first disputed transaction. Its difficult to understand why Mr S didnt report the first 
transaction at that time. I appreciate Mr S says he didnt log in to the app, but Im more 
persuaded by Capital Ones evidence, particularly as they have shown that it was his device 
and that it relied on biometric information to log in. 
There isnt a persuasive explanation (beyond it potentially being written down, which Ill 
come to below) to explain how Mr Ss PIN number came to be compromised. If an 
unauthorised third party were responsible, its highly unlikely that they would correctly guess 
the PIN number. There were no incorrect PIN attempts when making the transactions, it was 
correctly input the first time, both times. 
Mr S says his PIN was written down and kept in his wallet. But again Capital One have 
shown that Mr S checked his PIN numerous times (either online or in the app) in the months 
leading up to the disputed transactions. I accept that Mr S says he is bad with PINs and 
needs to check them frequently  but he is clearly aware of the ability to securely do so 
online. And I think its more likely than not that the PIN wasnt written down with the card as 
Mr S claims. 
Overall, I think Capital Ones decision that Mr S authorised the transactions in question was 
fair and reasonable. So Im not going to tell them they need to refund these to Mr S. 
Ive also listened to the calls between Mr S and Capital One where Mr S alleges he received 
poor service. Mr S was clearly upset at the news he was being held liable for the 
transactions. But delivering news of this nature is often likely to be a difficult conversation. I 
think Capital Ones agent was polite and patient with Mr S. So, I dont agree he received 
poor service or that Capital One need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman