DRN-3691479
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited handled a 
claim made on its commercial motor insurance policy. T is represented in this matter by a 
director, Mr K. 
What happened
Ts van was damaged, and Haven took it for repairs. Mr K was unhappy with Havens 
communication, the delays in making the repairs, and the impact this had on his business. 
Haven upheld the complaint and paid T £100 compensation for the delay in its finding a 
suitable repairer for Ts van. But Mr K remained unhappy as he said being without the van 
had caused T considerable losses.  
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Haven 
should increase its compensation to £500 for the delay and communication issues with the 
appointed repairer. And he thought it should consider Ts hire charges for a replacement van 
whilst the repairs were completed. 
Haven replied that T wasnt entitled to a courtesy van under the policy and it had no offers to 
make to cover any hire costs. Haven also said that it had made efforts to find a repairer that 
could undertake the repairs. This had delayed the claim by a month. And it thought £200 
compensation in total was sufficient for this inconvenience. 
But Mr K was unhappy with this. Mr K replied that he wanted Haven to make good his losses 
which he thought were closer to £20,000. And he also said he had had to pay for rectification 
work after the repairs were done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K said it took four months for his van to be fixed. He said he lost business because of 
this. And he had to hire a van to replace his. He said this caused a loss of business and 
additional costs.
I can understand that this must have been frustrating and stressful for him. But I can only 
consider here whether Havens handling of the claim caused T loss or inconvenience as a 
business cant suffer distress. And I can only consider Ts complaint points up to when 
Haven issued its response, 23 January 2022, when repairs were still being made. 
Haven, in its response to Mr Ks complaint, said the repairs had been rejected by three 
garages due to their nature and the specific repair requirements. It said it delivered the van 
to a repairer for an assessment a month after the claim was notified. It said repairs hadnt 
been completed promptly due to the availability of parts. It thought this delay was 
unavoidable. But Haven said it could have done more to avoid the initial one months delay. 
And Haven offered T £100 compensation for this. 
I can see from Havens file notes that there was some confusion during this time. Mr K called 
frequently to get updates and offered to arrange the repairs himself. After two weeks, three 
garages had accepted and then rejected the job because of the size of the van. I can 
understand that Mr K felt frustrated by this as he had sent in images of his van and the size 
of the van should have been evident. Mr K pointed out that his business was suffering. And 
he was concerned that Haven couldnt immediately locate his van when he was concerned 
about its contents. 
After four weeks, a garage had accepted the job. The repairs estimate was delayed, and, to 
speed matters, Mr K said hed chase it himself. I can see that the subsequent delays in the 
repairs, up to 23 January 2022, were due to back orders for parts. And I agree with Haven 
that this was outside of its control. So I cant hold Haven responsible for this further delay in 
repairing the van. 
In the meantime, Mr K had to hire a replacement van and he thought Haven should 
compensate him for this and his losses. Haven said Mr K wasnt entitled by his policy to a 
courtesy vehicle whilst his van was being repaired. So Ive looked at the policy booklet and I 
can see that on page 9 under the definition of Vehicle it states:
any courtesy vehicle arranged by us whilst your vehicle is being repaired
On page 10, the various options for repair are described. Haven points out that a courtesy 
vehicle wont be provided if a non-approved repairer is used, even if the courtesy vehicle 
option is shown on your Schedule.
And in Havens file I can see that the complaints handlers thought T was entitled to a hire 
vehicle and questioned whether one had been provided. So I asked to see the policy 
schedule to check this entitlement. And Haven has now provided this. And I cant see that a 
courtesy vehicle is shown on the policy schedule.
Mr K was evidently aware of this as he told Haven that he had to hire another vehicle as he 
was not covered for one on policy. So, as T wasnt entitled to a courtesy vehicle whilst its 
van was being repaired, I cant reasonably require Haven to consider Ts hire costs for the 
replacement van. This has already been explained to Mr K. 
Mr K said T had also suffered a loss of business due to the delays in making the repairs. On 
page 13 of the policy booklet, the policy exclusions are stated, including at 15: 
The cost of alternative transport (including hire vehicle costs) or compensation for You being 
unable to use Your Vehicle or any consequential losses (including loss of profits or hire 
charges) incurred by You or anyone insured under this policy.
I think thats a clearly stated exclusion and so I cant hold Haven responsible for Ts losses 
whilst its van was being repaired. But Im satisfied that Haven is responsible for any losses 
due to its delays in starting repairs. 
Haven agreed that there had been delays in the claim when it couldnt locate a repairer. It 
paid T £100 compensation for this, which it offered to increase to £200. But I dont think this 
was sufficient in the circumstances. 
Our Investigator thought Haven should offer T £500 compensation for this. I can see there 
has been a significant short-term impact for T caused by the months delay in starting the 
repairs. There was also inconvenience caused to T in the time its director spent on 
communication to progress the claim and repairs. And I agree that £500 compensation for 
this loss and inconvenience is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published 
guidance. 
As Ive said above, Ive only considered here matters up to the date of Havens response to 
Ts complaint, 23 January 2022. Mr K has raised further concerns about the time it took to 
finally return the van to him and then with the quality of the repairs. He said he paid for 
rectification work to avoid being without the van for a further period. If Mr K is still unhappy, he can make a further complaint to Haven about these concerns to 
give it a chance to respond. If he remains unhappy with its response, he can then bring his 
further complaint to us. 
Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay T £400 further compensation (£500 in 
total) for the loss and inconvenience caused by its delays in its claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman