DRN-2662334
The complaint
Mr A complains that the hire purchase agreement (HPA) he entered with Black Horse 
Limited to acquire a car was mis-sold. He wants the £2,000 deposit he paid refunded.
What happened
Mr A entered a HPA with Black Horse in July 2020 to acquire a car. He says he explained he 
would be using the vehicle as a taxi and he thought the car would meet the requirements. 
Unfortunately, after collecting the car he realised that it didnt meet the emissions 
requirements and so told the dealer he would be returning the car. He also noted that the 
cars mileage was higher than had been advertised and said he was sold other products that 
werent suitable.
Mr A returned the car and entered a new HPA for a different car which met the emissions 
standard required. He was refunded for the products that had been incorrectly sold. 
However, the £2,000 deposit he paid towards the first HPA wasnt refunded. He also 
complained that fuel costs of £15 were added to his new HPA. Mr A complained to the 
dealer and asked for his £2,000 to be returned. The dealer investigated his complaint but 
only offered to refund £1,000. Because of this he raised his complaint with Black Horse and 
then with this service.
Black Horse says that Mr A entered the first HPA on 28 July 2020 and then raised concerns 
with the dealer about the mileage, damage to a tyre and additional products being sold that 
didnt meet his needs. It says the dealer agreed to put Mr A in a new agreement for a car 
that met his requirements. Mr As first HPA was settled and the second HPA was taken out 
dated 10 August 2020. It says that in response to Mr As complaint the dealer acknowledged 
that Mr A had been sold products that didnt meet his needs and these products were 
cancelled and Mr A received a full refund. It noted that the warranty was included in the first 
HPA which was settled in full by the dealer and then Mr A also received a full refund of £649 
which was a benefit for him. It didnt think the difference in the mileage was material and 
noted the issue with the tyre was serviceable and not noted in the MOT carried out before 
supply. It said that there was no evidence the initial car was mis-sold and said that the dealer 
had offered to refund Mr A £1,000 which it thought a reasonable outcome. 
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She noted the mileage recorded for the first 
car and Mr As comment about the actual mileage being higher. While she accepted this was 
a false statement of fact she didnt think this had induced Mr A into the first HPA and noted 
that the second car Mr A acquired had a higher mileage than the first. Therefore, she didnt 
think a misrepresentation had occurred. She did acknowledge the mileage difference could 
have resulted in Mr A paying a higher price than he should have and based on the guidance 
this was found to be a difference of £40. She also noted that it was unusual for Mr A to be 
told to add a cost for fuel to his agreement and she thought this amount (£15) should be 
refunded along with interest. 
Black Horse agreed to pay Mr A £100. This amount was to cover the £40 difference in the 
value of the first car due to the difference in the mileage and the £15 Mr A was told to fund 
through the agreement. Our investigator thought this was reasonable and as she didnt think 
the HPA had been mis-sold she didnt require Black Horse to do anything further than pay 
Mr A £100. Our investigator noted the offer made by the dealer and said Mr A should 
discuss this directly with the dealer.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He said he should be refunded the £2,000 deposit 
as the car was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has raised several issues as part of his complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities 
- that is what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
Misrepresentation
This decision relates to Black Horse as the finance provider. As well as considering the 
actions taken by Black Horse, under the regulations, Black Horse can also be held liable if 
the dealer made misrepresentations that induced Mr A into agreeing to the finance.
Mr A entered the first HPA in July 2020. The HPA records Mr As occupation as a building 
manager. I note Mr As comments that he had explained he did two jobs and that he made it 
clear he would be using the car as a taxi. It appears that Mr As other job was included in the 
form instead of him being a taxi driver. Accepting that Mr A explained his need for the car in 
his business, I would still expect him to have checked the requirements that needed to be 
met. In this case he needed to have a certain emissions rating for the car to be used as a 
taxi in London. Having looked at the information regarding the emissions rating it appears 
new requirements came into force in January 2020. Mr A appears to have been aware of 
these as he had the car assessed however, I wouldnt expect the dealer to have necessarily 
known about the requirement unless Mr A had raised it. As I have nothing to show that he 
asked specifically about the emissions and rating I do not find I can say this was 
misrepresented to him. He experienced further issues regarding this but as this complaint is 
against Black Horse I am only considering the information provided by Black Horse and the 
dealer as part of the negotiations. As I cannot say Mr A was provided with misleading 
information about the emissions I dont find I can say that misrepresentation took place in 
relation to this.
Mr A has provided evidence that showed the mileage on the advertisement and in the HPA 
was lower than the actual mileage (as recorded on the MOT undertaken on 24 June 2020). 
This is an incorrect statement of fact however to say a misrepresentation has occurred I 
would also need to be able to say that the advertised mileage induced Mr A into the 
agreement. In this case the difference wasnt that large (around 600 miles) and the MOT 
would have been available at the time of acquisition (had Mr A wished to check before 
travelling to the dealer) and the mileage would have been apparent on the odometer when 
collecting the car. I also note that after returning the car Mr A accepted another car with a 
higher mileage. Therefore, I do not find the mileage discrepancy is such that I can say Mr A 
would not have entered the agreement had the correct mileage been advertised. 
Overall, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that the car Mr A initially acquired 
through the HPA in July 2020 was misrepresented.
Deposit refundMr A returned the car within the first 14 days and entered a new agreement for a second car 
which met his requirements. Mr As finance on the first HPA was settled and the second 
HPA set up. I have nothing to suggest that Black Horse did anything wrong in this process.
The dealer didnt refund the £2,000 deposit Mr A had paid as part of his first HPA. I note the 
comments that have been made by both parties and the dealers offer to refund £1,000. I 
understand why Mr A believes that the full £2,000 should be refunded. However, in this 
case, I do not find that this is something I can say Black Horse is required to refund. I say 
this because I havent found that the car subject to the first agreement was misrepresented 
and I have nothing to suggest it wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr A withdrew from the 
agreement and it was settled and it appears that the dealer had arranged for an alternative 
car to be provided and a new agreement set up. While I cant say for certain what was 
discussed when the second agreement was set up, it set out the payments required, and 
financing and I do not have anything to show that Mr A was given any incorrect information 
that induced him into the second agreement. Therefore, while I can understand why Mr A 
feels his deposit should be refunded, I do not find I can say that Black Horse is required to 
make this payment. As the dealer has offered a partial refund of the deposit I think it 
reasonable that Mr A discuss this directly with it. 
Mis-sale of associated products and fuel charge
The dealer accepted that Mr A had been sold products that didnt meet his needs due to the 
use he would be making of the car. These were cancelled and I understand Mr A received a 
full refund. I find this resolves this issue. I note the comments made by Black Horse that 
Mr A benefited from the refund of the warranty as this was paid directly to him, but I can also 
see from the order form that there was a shortfall of £649 for the second car (the same 
amount as refunded for the warranty) due from Mr A which suggests the issue was resolved 
at no net benefit to Mr A. I find this reasonable.
There was £15 of fuel added to Mr As second HPA. There also appears to have been a fuel 
cost added to the first HPA but as this was settled within the first month I havent considered 
that further. This addition is unusual, and I can see why our investigator recommended this 
be refunded along with interest.
Black Horses offer
Black Horse agreed to pay Mr A £100 to cover the costs of the fuel being added to his 
agreement and the price difference due to the mileage discrepancy on the first car. As this 
covers both of these costs, I find this a reasonable offer. My final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited should pay Mr A 100 for the issues he has 
experienced.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman