DRN-3804574
The complaint
Mr and Ms W complain about the distress and inconvenience they were caused by 
Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited when they wanted to make a withdrawal to pay 
for a house purchase. 
What happened
Mr and Ms W had held an account with Aberdeen, and its predecessor businesses, for more 
than 20 years. In 2021, they were buying a house in the UK and needed to withdraw funds 
from their Aberdeen account. Ms W told us she decided to make two withdrawals but, when 
she phoned to make the first withdrawal, she was told Aberdeen needed evidence to verify 
her and Mr Ws identities.
Mr and Ms W had difficulties providing the information Aberdeen said it required, because 
they were visiting the UK to purchase a property and some of the paperwork was at their 
home address which was abroad. They managed to provide the required documents, but 
they said they were effectively locked out of their account and couldnt make the second 
withdrawal. They say they nearly lost out on the purchase of their property because they had 
to delay the exchange of contracts. And they may have lost out on the value of the units they 
encashed because of the delay in being able to give the second withdrawal instruction.
Aberdeen said it had wrongly told Mr and Ms W that it needed to verify their identities. When 
they phoned to make the withdrawal, they should have been told that they may need to 
provide additional information. It paid them £50 for the inconvenience caused.
After Mr and Ms W referred their complaint to us, Aberdeen offered to pay them an 
additional £50. It said Ms W had received poor service during her phone call on 31 August 
and that its final response to the complaint should have provided a fuller explanation about 
what had happened. But it said there hadnt been any delays in paying the withdrawal 
proceeds to Mr and Ms Ws bank account.
Our investigator concluded that Aberdeens offer was fair.
Mr and Ms W didnt agree. They replied in some detail to say, in summary, that:
They were UK citizens whod returned to the UK and couldnt go back to their home 
abroad because of Covid restrictions. They had nowhere to live in the UK and wanted to 
move into a home as soon as they could.
They had no way of knowing how long Aberdeens investigation would take. They kept 
phoning to ask when they could make the second withdrawal but were told they would be 
contacted. It wasnt until 2 September that they were told theyd been cleared of money 
laundering.
They were locked out of their account from 27 August. They would have made the 
second withdrawal on 30 August and exchanged contracts the day after if there hadnt 
been any problems.
The money was paid within timescales once they were allowed back into their account 
but, at the time, Aberdeen gave them no indication of how long its checks would take. 
This was extremely distressing when they were trying to purchase a house and had 
nowhere to live.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Having carefully considered everything, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Let me explain why.
When Ms W phoned Aberdeen on 27 August 2021 to make a withdrawal, Aberdeen should 
have told her that it might need to request paperwork to verify her and Mr Ws identity. This 
is its standard procedure and covers situations where it doesnt hold up to date 
documentation in its records and where checks are required to fulfil its anti-money 
laundering obligations.
Aberdeen wrongly told Ms W that it needed her and Mr W to provide certified paperwork to 
verify their identities and address. When Ms W called it on 31 August, it had the opportunity 
to provide her with the correct information. It should have told her she didnt need to provide 
any documentation for herself; and it should have checked if it needed information for Mr W. 
The information it did provide during this call, as with the call on 27 August, was wrong, and 
unhelpful.
Mr and Ms W have explained how difficult it was for them to provide the information. I find Mr 
and Ms W spent time and money obtaining the documentation, which Aberdeen since 
confirmed was never needed.
Not only were Mr and Ms W put to this expense of obtaining certified documents, it was 
particularly difficult for them because of their circumstances, (some of their paperwork was at 
their home address). And it was particularly stressful for them because they needed the 
money to buy their home. 
Ive firstly thought about whether Aberdeens mistake led Mr and Ms W to make a financial 
loss. And Im not persuaded that it did. The withdrawal they requested on 27 August was 
credited to their bank account on 1 September; and the withdrawal they requested on 
2 September was credited to their account on 7 September. Allowing for weekends and a 
bank holiday, I find the payments were made within Aberdeens usual timescale of three 
working days. 
Mr and Ms W say they would have given instructions for the second withdrawal on 
30 August if Aberdeen hadnt made a mistake. But 30 August was a bank holiday. They also 
say they were locked out of their account, so couldnt give the second instruction until 
Aberdeen confirmed the first payment had been successful  which it did during a phone call on 2 September. Im not persuaded Aberdeens mistake prevented Mr and Ms W from giving 
the second withdrawal instruction earlier than they did. I say this because Ive not seen 
evidence to show they were locked out of their account or prevented from giving any 
instructions. On 31 August, when Ms W phoned Aberdeen, she was told the information they 
were looking to provide would be enough to satisfy its requirements. This was the first 
working day after 27 August, and I find Ms W could reasonably have given the second 
withdrawal instruction during this call if shed chosen to do so. And it seems to me that 
Mr and Ms W misunderstood what Aberdeen meant when it referred to an investigation. 
This was an investigation into their complaint, not into any suspicions of money laundering. 
I dont find Aberdeen told Mr and Ms W they were under investigation for money laundering.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Ms W would have given instructions for the second 
withdrawal any earlier than they did, or that they would have exchanged contracts at an 
earlier date, had they been given the right information by Aberdeen from the outset. So 
I dont find Aberdeens mistake led to a financial loss.
Ive gone on to consider the stress and inconvenience Mr and Ms W have been caused.
The first payment credited Mr and Ms Ws bank account on 1 September. They werent 
aware of this until the following day. But by this date, they knew Aberdeen had all the 
information it needed to make the second payment. Mr and Ms W had therefore suffered five 
to six days of not knowing if and when the payment would be made. During this period they 
worried that their house purchase might fall through, so it was clearly a stressful time. They 
also had to go to the considerable trouble of unnecessarily obtaining certified documents.
I dont think Aberdeen has fully appreciated the impact its mistake had on Mr and Ms W. 
I consider £200, in total, is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its mistake caused. I appreciate this is still far lower than Mr and Ms W think 
should be awarded, and theyve mentioned that Aberdeen should be penalised for what its 
done. But we dont have the power to fine or punish businesses. This is dealt with by the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is instead to consider individual 
disputes and reach an outcome I think is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances 
of each. Im satisfied Ive done that here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers 
Limited should pay Mr and Ms W £150, in addition to the £50 its already paid, to 
compensate them for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman