DRN-3918957
The complaint
Mr E complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA blocked a payment he wanted to 
make but didnt alert him to this which led to the payment being taken several times. Hed 
like to be compensated for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr E attempted to make a purchase on a website, which had his PayPal account as a linked 
payment method. The website told him there was a problem with his payment, so he 
attempted it again several times without success. However, he later found several 
transactions for this amount has pending on the cards linked to his PayPal account.
Mr E got in touch with PayPal. He was told his account was restricted. To unlock the 
account, they wanted Mr E to provide the date of birth of a third party listed as the recipient 
of the goods for the transaction. Mr E didnt agree to this, as he didnt want to share 
someone elses personal information and thought it would breach data protection legislation. 
Several of the pending transactions were returned to Mr E, but two payments remained. Mr 
E raised a complaint with PayPal. 
PayPal initially didnt think theyd done anything wrong. But later they released the held 
payments back to Mr E, and allowed him use of the account. They also offered £150 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with this Mr E referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator thought that 
PayPal should pay £300 compensation  reasoning that they didnt think it was fair that Mr E 
was asked for a third partys information to release the payment, or that it was fair of PayPal 
to accept multiple payment attempts when the first one had already been flagged for review.
Mr E accepted this as an outcome, but PayPal disagreed. They said their terms allowed 
them to ask further information from Mr E, and didnt think more compensation was 
warranted. As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
Having reviewed the evidence, I felt the compensation already offered was reasonable. I 
issued my provisional decision which said:
Looking at PayPals terms they do say they can request further information from consumers. 
This is in line with their legal and regulatory obligations. They havent done anything wrong
by this.
PayPal have provided the notice they sent to Mr E asking for further information  although I
note this is from the day after the transactions were attempted. Had this been sent after the
first transaction was held, Mr E may not have attempted any further transactions.
While PayPal can request information, I note that they asked Mr E to provide the date of
birth of a third-party. Mr E declined to do so, mentioning he was concerned this breached the
relevant data protection legislation. While I cant make a firm finding on whether this would
be a breach of the legislation  this would be for the courts to say  I accept a date of birth
would be considered personal information of the third party. So, I understand Mr Es concern
 its not his information to give out. Im not persuaded this was an appropriate question to
ask in the circumstances, and it was unreasonable to expect Mr E to answer it.
When Mr E made it clear he wouldnt provide the information then PayPal are still within their
rights to decline to process the transaction. However, I would expect them to release any
held or pending transactions as soon as possible  to allow Mr E to make any alternative
arrangements to pay the merchant. But there is a delay of several weeks before the funds
are available to Mr E again, which I dont consider reasonable. Ive not seen anything to
suggest this was a necessary delay. I can see from the chat logs how frustrated this left
Mr E.
Taking this all into account I consider it right that PayPal pay Mr E compensation for their
failings. PayPal have already offered £150 as a gesture of goodwill for a poor experience.
Ive gone on to consider the impact. Mr E has lost out on the item he was looking to
purchase, but I note this was to be sent to the third-party. And while releasing the funds back
to Mr E took longer than Id consider reasonable, it wasnt for an extended period of time.
After considering the delays and the unreasonable line of questioning, Im satisfied that the 
amount of £150 is a reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr E.
PayPal accepted this as an outcome. Mr E said that it was PayPals actions that led to 
several payments being taken, and that theyd asked for the third partys personal 
information before they would release the funds. He felt this was blackmail. But he confirmed 
he had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision are 
reasonable. While it was fair for PayPal to restrict Mr Es account while they carried out 
additional checks, they should have been more proactive in contacting him. This likely would 
have prevented further payments from being attempted, and more money being held.
I agree with Mr Es point that the information PayPal asked for was inappropriate, and when 
he declined to provide it PayPal should have released the funds then. The fact that they 
continued to hold funds past this point isnt fair to Mr E. Overall Im satisfied PayPal havent 
behaved reasonably, and that Mr E is due compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr E hasnt suggested he suffered any specific financial loss aside from the money which 
PayPal were holding  which was later returned. So, when considering compensation our 
service is empowered to deliver fair compensation, based on the impact a business error 
has had on the consumer. I accept what Mr E has said about finding the experience 
incredibly stressful  and I can see from the chat logs why it would be so stressful  but this 
didnt go on for an extended period of time. 
I want to assure Mr E that Im not dismissing his feelings or arguments  I broadly agree with 
his overall complaint. But when weighing up the impact I find that the compensation already 
on offer from PayPal is appropriate. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA must pay Mr E £150 
compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman