DRN-3056971
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed his basic bank account.
What happened
On 15 October 2020, Mr F applied for a basic bank account. Santander accepted his 
application and the account was opened. A debit card and PIN were issued to him and he 
began to use the account for day to day transactions. 
On 11 November 2020, Santander wrote to Mr F and said it was withdrawing its decision to 
offer him the account following an internal review. 
Mr F complained about the banks decision. On 23 November 2020, Santander issued its 
final response on the matter. It explained that it had investigated his recent application and 
had made the decision to withdraw his banking facilities. 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service as he remained unhappy with the banks position. 
Our Investigator looked into things and wasnt persuaded that Santander had treated Mr F 
fairly. He pointed out that the account Mr F opened was a basic bank account. He explained 
basic bank accounts can only be closed in very specific circumstances and those 
circumstances are governed by Reg 26(2) of the Payment Accounts Regulations 2015. 
He wasnt satisfied that Santander had good grounds to refuse Mr Fs application. He said 
the bank had not provided sufficient evidence to show it was entitled to close Mr Fs account. 
He pointed out there was no evidence to show Mr F gave Santander incorrect information as 
part of his application and he didnt think the banks speculation about what the account 
might go on to be used for was sufficient to demonstrate that it was unlawful to open it. 
To put things right, he recommended that Santander should re-open the account or allow 
Mr F to reapply, taking into consideration the relevant regulations when assessing a new 
application. He also suggested Santander should pay Mr F £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by not having access to a basic bank account.  
Santander disagreed. It said it was entitled to reject the opening of a basic bank account if it 
is contrary to anti Money Laundering and fraud legislation. It said it was concerned and its 
actions were to mitigate future risk to the bank. It highlighted that there were fraud markers 
reported against Mr F by other institutions. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general principle, a bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a 
customer may opt to close an account with a bank. A bank can make commercial decisions 
about who it offers banking services to, so long as it doesnt unfairly discriminate against a 
customer. A bank can say it no longer wishes to do business with individuals. Thats 
because banks have the commercial freedom to decide who they want to contract with.
Bur Mr F opened what is known as a basic bank account. This is intended for people who 
dont have and dont qualify for a standard current account. Basic bank accounts have 
straightforward features and limited facilities. But they also have certain protections, 
including different and more rigorous conditions concerning closure than a normal current 
account. 
Basic bank accounts can only be closed in very specific circumstances and those 
circumstances are governed by Reg 26(2) of the Payment Account Regulations 2015. 
This states a firm may only close a basic bank account when: 
a) the consumer has knowingly used, or attempted to use, the payment account for illegal 
purposes; 
(b) there has been no transaction on the account for more than 24 consecutive months; 
(c) the consumer provided incorrect information when applying for the account, and had the 
correct information been provided, the application would have been refused; 
(d) the consumer is no longer legally resident in the European Union; 
(e) the consumer has access to another payment account in the United Kingdom which (i) 
allows the consumer to make use of the services listed in regulation 19(1); and (ii) was 
opened after the payment account with basic features; 
(f) the credit institution considers that the consumers conduct in relation to the credit 
institutions staff amounts to the commission of an offence under (i) section 4, 4A or 5 of 
the Public Order Act 1986; (ii) the Protection from Harassment Act 1997; (iii) section 38 of 
the Criminal Justice and Licensing (Scotland) Act 2010 (threatening or abusive behaviour); 
(iv) Article 9 of the Public Order (Northern Ireland) Order 1987 (use of words or behaviour or 
display of written material); (v) the Protection from Harassment (Northern Ireland) Order 
1997. 
Based on all the information before me, I dont find Santander can demonstrate to a proper 
and reasonable extent that any of the above conditions were met. 
I have reviewed the points Santander say demonstrate it complied with the above 
regulations. But I disagree. I dont find what it relied on enough to reasonably conclude Mr F 
knowingly used or attempted to use the account for illegal purposes. Ive not seen 
information to sufficiently support the position that Mr F provided false information to obtain 
his Santander account or that the way he used it in the short time it was operational was a 
cause for concern. Neither do I find the information Santander holds demonstrates any other 
condition under Reg 26(2) was met. 
To be clear, I do agree that Santander can and should review activity on an account. It has 
important legal and regulatory obligations to meet, and it can take proportionate measures to 
ensure it complies with them. But in this case, I am not persuaded that Santander should 
have closed Mr Fs basic bank account. There are strict regulatory limitations on when a bank can close a basic account for a 
reason. Santanders decision in effect deprived Mr F of a current account facility, which is an 
essential part of everyday life. Im persuaded its decision likely had a significant impact on 
him and his financial independence, which he should not have had to experience. Mr F does 
not currently have a bank account and has to struggle to manage his money using a prepaid 
card. I agree the compensation our Investigator proposed to recognise the impact the banks 
decision to withdraw his banking facilities is appropriate in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint against Santander UK Plc.   
To put things right, Santander UK Plc should now:
Reopen Mr Fs basic account or, if this is not possible, allow him to reapply, taking 
into consideration the relevant regulations when assessing a new application. This is 
subject to Mr F not already having a current account open in his name in the United 
Kingdom and also contingent on Mr F agreeing to hold a basic account with 
Santander.
Pay £150 compensation to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience closing the 
basic bank account caused Mr F 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman