DRN-3143181
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the cancellation of her HomeCare policy by British Gas Insurance 
Limited.  
What happened
In January 2021 Mrs C took out a new HomeCare policy with British Gas online. Soon after 
she made an appointment to have her first service for her boiler. The appointment was 
postponed a number of times between February and March 2021 until she was notified by 
British Gas that they would be cancelling her policy. Mrs C wasnt happy so complained to 
British Gas saying she had been led to believe she had cover for her boiler. 
British Gas said they wrote to her in July 2018 to advise that they would no longer carry out 
any further paid work for her or provide her with any additional HomeCare products, so this 
was the reason they cancelled the policy. Mrs C said that as she was allowed to book an 
engineer to carry out a service she had been accepted for the cover and so by cancelling the 
policy British Gas had left her in a vulnerable position. So she referred the complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the issues and didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was a 
commercial decision for British Gas to make as to who they wanted as their customers. And 
she felt British Gas had clearly written to Mrs C in July 2018 about not providing her with 
additional policies, so she didnt think British Gas did anything wrong. 
Mrs C disagreed, she said the issues from 2018 had been resolved and she had a 
HomeCare policy until June 2020. Mrs C also said she hadnt taken her policy out online but 
had called the head office to take it out. 
Our investigator considered the further points made by Mrs C, but these didnt change her 
view. She said the policy that expired in 2020 wasnt a HomeCare policy for her boiler and 
related to a guarantee for electrical care which had been ongoing since 2015. So it wasnt a 
new policy shed taken out after British Gass letter of July 2018. Because Mrs C still didnt 
agree she asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear I am only looking at the complaint issues concerning the HomeCare policy taken 
out in January 2021. I note Mrs C has raised a number of issues around her treatment by 
British Gas dating back a number of years, but here I am only considering if British Gas 
acted unfairly in cancelling this policy and not any previous actions between the parties. 
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Its clear from what Mrs C has told us she feels very strongly about her complaint. I 
appreciate that shes upset that British Gas didnt carry out the service to her boiler and 
cancelled the policy. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that British Gas 
did something wrong. And in this case, I dont think they have. Ill explain why in more detail 
below.
Its generally for businesses to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, insurance services to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to 
do so, this service wont usually say that a business must keep a customer or require it to 
compensate a customer for deciding it no longer wishes to continue with their relationship. 
As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, this service wont 
usually intervene. Im satisfied here that British Gass decision to stop providing Mrs C with 
HomeCare products was reached reasonably and fairly.
Mrs C says it was unfair of British Gas to give her a policy and take her monthly premiums if 
they werent willing to provide her with the service. Ive thought about this and from the 
evidence given to us it seems the policy was taken online, although this is disputed by      
Mrs C. Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
British Gas have provided us with their internal screenshots showing how the policy was 
incepted and this shows it was taken out online so without any persuasive evidence to the 
contrary Im persuaded this is how it was likely taken out. 
Its likely that the process of taking out a policy online would have been automated and 
British Gas have said the automated system wouldnt have picked up that Mrs C shouldnt 
have been provided a HomeCare policy. They said it was only picked up manually when one 
of their engineers was booked to do the boiler service and hed recognised the address was 
one they shouldnt be going to. So I dont think it acted unreasonably with the delay in 
cancelling the policy. 
I have considered the letter sent to Mrs C in July 2018 and its clear from this that British Gas 
say they would no longer be willing to provide any additional HomeCare products. In the 
letter they have explained their reasons as I would have expected them to do.
I understand how strongly Mrs C feels about how shes been treated, and shes been 
frustrated by whats happened. I realise she will be disappointed with my decision, but I do 
think Mrs C should reasonably have known that she was prohibited from taking a policy with 
British Gas for the reasons they stated in their letter of July 2018. And I can see they 
refunded Mrs C for the premiums theyd taken so I cant say British Gas acted unreasonably 
or treated Mrs C unfairly. 
Mrs C has raised various other points in relation to her interactions with British Gas but as 
mentioned above what Im looking at here is the points in relation to this specific complaint. 
So while Ive read and understood what she has said, I havent commented on all of her 
points as I dont think some of them are relevant to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Jag DhupharOmbudsman