DRN-2818135
The complaint
Mrs C complains about a decision by Argos Limited, trading as Argos Card (Argos), to 
suspend her account as it was in persistent debt.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
The FCA set rules  (CONC 6.7.27) about persistent debt that companies such as Argos 
have to follow. They define persistent debt as when a consumer has paid more in interest, 
fees and charges than theyve repaid towards the capital they owe over the previous 18 
months. The FCA require businesses to assess whether a customer falls within this 
definition and when they identify thats the case the rules require a business to send letters 
to the consumer 18, 27 and 36 months after the account falls into persistent debt.
Here Argos identified that Mrs Cs account met, and continued to meet, the FCAs definition 
of persistent debt and I can see that they sent the letters they were obligated to send to    
Mrs C after 18, 27 and 36 months.
Those letters explained, amongst other things, why they thought Mrs C was in persistent 
debt and why increasing payments would reduce the cost of the borrowing. They also 
encouraged Mrs C to get in touch so they could provide advice. The letters explained that 
the rules meant the account would eventually need to be suspended if insufficient action was 
taken. That was to enable Mrs C to get on top of the debt.
I think the letters Argos sent complied with the FCA rules and that their assessment the 
account was in persistent debt was correct. As insufficient action was taken by Mrs C Argos 
had to eventually suspend the account and offer repayment options.
So, I dont think Argos have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman