DRN-3796322
The complaint
Mr W, a director in V, a limited company, complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to send 
an international payment in US dollars (USD) as requested and then didnt respond 
promptly to his concerns about this. Hes also concerned about the amount he received 
when the payment was returned to Vs account.
What happened
On 24 May 2021 V made an international payment from their account with TSB to a supplier. 
That payment wasnt received promptly and after several contacts - initiated both by Mr W 
and TSB - the payment was eventually returned on 15 July 2021 but it was less than V had 
initially paid out by some £85.99.
Our investigator didnt uphold Vs complaint. In respect of the payment, she didnt think TSB 
had acted unfairly as it responded to the beneficiary bank after both queries within days and 
that wasnt unreasonable. But she did think TSB couldve handled this better in terms of 
customer service to V and thought the £50 it had paid to V was fair and reasonable.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
decision. He also said the part of his complaint about the returned payment being for a 
lesser amount hadnt been looked at despite being raised at the same time. 
On order that all Vs concerns were looked at before the matter went to a final ombudsmans 
decision the investigator raised this point with TSB. Despite disputing it was raised at the 
time of the original complaint TSB looked into this issue. It wrote to V and said the payment 
credited back to the account was lower due to the exchange rate at the time. TSB said when 
the payment was returned by the beneficiary bank it had to use the exchange rate in force at 
the time of the return  which was different to the rate used when it was sent - so couldnt 
control the amount being returned.
Our investigator asked TSB for more information about the exchange rates used for both 
payments out and returned. Having received that from TSB she didnt think the bank had 
done anything wrong.
V though the investigator had made a number of mistakes in this investigation. They also 
said Mr W had been told by the bank the part of the compliant about the lower amount 
credited back to the account, was due to a customer service person inputting incorrect 
details. And Mr W said TSB would be confirming this in a letter. Mr W said Vs position from 
the start of this complaint was the bank had entered incorrect details and the payment failing 
hadnt been his fault. We asked V on a number of occasions to forward the letter from the 
bank confirming this but there has been no response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the conclusion this isnt a complaint I can uphold and Ill explain 
why.
V told us they werent able to visit a branch to make the payment, so phoned TSB and were 
talked through the payment. TSB say V processed the payment in question via internet 
banking. So, although V say what happened wasnt their fault, I cant see theres been any 
information inputted here by anyone other than V. And, ultimately, its an account holders 
responsibility to provide valid details including the full name and account details for the 
beneficiary bank receiving the payment.
The Contact notes and Swift messages show TSB were just told initially by the intermediary 
bank the beneficiary bank was unbale to apply the payment. TSB had to exchange further 
messages to clarify exactly what was needed to overcome this. The notes also show that 
each time TSB received information they responded promptly to progress the matter. For 
example, TSBs customer notes show the same day they received a Swift message advising 
the beneficiary name and account number didnt match they contacted V. And that on the 
same day V responded they sent this information on. And TSB told us the original payment 
instruction only had a routing number whereas the amendment via swift messaging on 6 July 
contained a routing number and an account number. So, I dont think TSB have done 
anything wrong in relation to the payment. And theyve acted reasonably and promptly when 
problems arose.
Despite requests, I havent seen the letter V say TSB were to send them, confirming the 
complaint about the difference in money going back into their account was on the back of 
incorrect details had been in put by a customer service agent. But, even if I had seen that 
letter, I dont think it would change my view on this. 
I can see the amount repaid in USD is 50 USD less than the amount paid out. The Swift 
messages say the payment has been returned less charges. So, it seems to me the 
difference between the amount debited is due both the changes in the exchange rate and 
the charges deducted. Whilst I appreciate thats unfortunate for V I dont think thats 
something TSB had any control over. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold TSB 
responsible for it.
Overall, save for the failings in customer service, which TSB accept, I dont think it has done 
anything wrong here. Ordinarily I wouldnt award a limited company an amount for distress 
and inconvenience. But TSB have already credited a payment of in this regard of £50. This 
seems reasonable in the circumstances and I dont see any reason to ask them to alter this. 
Given how strongly V feels about this they may wish to pursue the matter through other 
routes. But this decision brings to an end what we can do to resolve this dispute with TSB 
informally.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman