DRN-2203297
The complaint
Mr H complains that a caravan that he paid for, in part, using credit provided by Nationwide 
Building Society wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 July 2021 and described what had 
happened as follows: 
Mr H used his Nationwide credit card in October 2016 to pay £1,000 towards the 
cost of a new caravan. He also paid £20,388 to the supplier of the caravan by bank 
transfer and the caravan was delivered to him in May 2017. Some issues with the 
caravan were identified when it was serviced in May 2018 and a crack in the front 
panel was identified when it was serviced in July 2019. He returned the caravan to 
the supplier for repairs and he made a claim to Nationwide under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
It said that the supplier was repairing the caravan but Mr H wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. He collected the caravan after it had been 
repaired in January 2020 and he provided a report from an inspection that took place 
later that month.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. Although he 
was satisfied that there was an issue with water leaking into the caravan, he said that 
he couldnt reasonably say that there was sufficient evidence that linked that problem 
to the original issues with the caravan or the repair which had been completed seven 
months earlier.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He arranged 
for the caravan to be inspected by an independent expert in October 2020 and has 
provided the inspection report and another service report from June 2021 in support 
of his claim that he should be able to reject the caravan.
In my provisional decision I set out my provisional findings on this complaint which were as 
follows:
Mr H paid £1,000 towards the cost of the caravan using his Nationwide credit card 
in October 2016. The caravan was delivered to him in May 2017 and it was serviced 
in May 2018. The service report identified Front window hinge bar slightly loose on 
offside. Small hair line cracks in rear offside upper corner of panel.
The caravan was serviced again in May 2019 and the service report referred to three 
issues  it said: Leisure Battery is flat. Crack in front end caravan panel on offside 
upper radius of awning rail. Small hair line crack in rear panel. Mr H took the 
caravan to another dealer but returned it to the supplier for repairs in September 
2019. He wasnt satisfied with the amount of time that it was taking to repair the 
caravan so he made a claim to Nationwide under section 75 and said that he wanted 
to reject the caravan.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Nationwide didnt uphold his complaint 
and said that the supplier was repairing the caravan. Mr H wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. To be able to uphold his complaint about 
Nationwide, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the caravan and that Nationwides response to 
his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the 
outcome of Mr Hs claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
Mr H collected the caravan after it had been repaired in January 2020 but he wasnt 
satisfied with the quality of the repairs. He arranged for the caravan to be inspected 
by an independent caravan servicing and repairing company. It identified the 
following issues with the repairs: The amount of sealant used is excessive and 
untidy. Sealant has been smeared onto the caravan panels. There are dents in the 
roof in close proximity to the removed roof strap. There are scratches on the roof. 
There is debris along the front pot shelf. There is a high reading of damp in the top 
locker on the offside at the front.
The supplier says that the caravan was ok when it had been fixed and that Mr H had 
checked it. It says he has a history of rejecting things and made it clear that he 
wouldnt accept a repair and that it will not accept a rejection of the caravan.
Mr H took photos showing his issues with the repairs and provided them to another 
caravan supplier and it said that: After carefully studying the photos  in addition to 
the work discussed the van will require a new roof. The caravan was serviced in July 
2020 and the service report said: Front panel in poor condition. Waste pipe loose 
under kitchen sink and it said: No damp readings showing.
Our investigator said in September 2020 that he didnt consider that there was 
enough evidence to show that the issues with the caravan at that time were linked to 
the original issues with the caravan or the repairs that had been made. Mr H then 
arranged for the caravan to be inspected by an independent expert in October 2020. 
The experts detailed report included photos of the issues with the caravan and 
concluded:
In summary this caravan has had a major front end repair carried out on it. 
The repair is of a very poor quality and shows a lack of care and attention to 
detail. Not only are the repairs poor but the caravan has been further 
damaged during the repair process.
The caravan is not water tight and the repairs are the reason that it is not 
water tight. It is inevitable that this caravan will deteriorate as a result of the 
repairs. 
My understanding is that the Office of the Financial Services Ombudsman 
wants to close the case as completed. Clearly this is a failed repair as 
covered by the Consumer Rights Act 2015. The repair is of a poor quality and 
as the caravan is letting in water as a direct result of the repair, it can be 
clearly stated that this repair has failed.
In my professional opinion this caravan can not currently be used for the 
purpose for which it was Purchased.Mr H arranged the caravans annual service in June 2021 and the service report 
identified a number of issues with the caravan and said that there were: Higher 
[damp] readings showing where roof repair is poor. The reported issues were: Front 
roof behind frame not securely fixed. Motor mover cables not sealed through battery 
box. Gas locker interior panels buckled and not secure. Wallboard in poor condition 
in offside front upper corner. Front window hinge rail is loose and screw missing on 
offside. Roof panel at front of van is badly distorted. Front roof rail is unstuck on 
offside.
In complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
The caravan was delivered to Mr H in May 2017 and a year later hairline cracks in 
the rear panel were identified. A year after that a crack in the front end panel was 
identified and the supplier agreed to repair the caravan. I dont consider it to be 
reasonable for both the front and rear panels of the caravan to be cracked only two 
years after Mr H had received the caravan. I consider it to be more likely than not that 
the cracks were present or developing when the caravan was supplied to Mr H or 
that the caravan wasnt as durable as it was reasonable for him to be expect it to be. 
For that reason I consider that the caravan wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
sold to Mr H and that the supplier has breached its contract with him.
The supplier agreed to repair the caravan and I consider that a successful repair by 
the supplier would have been an appropriate remedy for its breach of contract. But 
Im not persuaded that the supplier has successfully repaired the issues with the 
caravan. The independent experts report says that: The repair is of a poor quality 
and as the caravan is letting in water as a direct result of the repair, it can be clearly 
stated that this repair has failed and the service report from June 2021 refers to a 
poor roof repair and says that the roof isnt securely fixed.
I consider it to be more likely than not that the caravan hasnt been properly repaired 
and that the issues with it mean that it cant be used. I consider that to a be a further 
breach of contract by the supplier for which Nationwide is jointly liable under section 
75. Nationwide hasnt provided any evidence, other than the suppliers comments, to 
show that the caravan has been properly repaired.
As there has already been a repair attempted on the caravan., I consider that it would 
now be fair and reasonable for Mr H to be able to reject the caravan and for him to 
receive a refund of the money that he paid for it, with interest. Im not persuaded that 
it would be fair or reasonable for further repairs to be attempted on the caravan to 
deal with the issues with it.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr H or Nationwide, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Mr H has accepted my provisional decision. 
Nationwide says the supplier has told it that to enable it to ascertain what the exact issues 
are it needs to have the caravan in for assessment. Nationwide has asked whether Mr H 
would allow the caravan to be inspected. Mr H has responded in detail to explain why he 
doesnt agree to another inspection of the caravan by the supplier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision or that 
there should be a further inspection of the caravan.
The caravan has been inspected by an independent expert who concluded that: The repair 
is of a poor quality and as the caravan is letting in water as a direct result of the repair, it can 
be clearly stated that this repair has failed and the service report from June 2021 refers to a 
poor roof repair and says that the roof isnt securely fixed. 
Mr Hs complaint is made against Nationwide and, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Mr H to be able to reject the 
caravan and for him to receive a refund of the money that he paid for it, with interest. I dont 
consider it to be necessary for the supplier to now assess the caravan to ascertain the 
issues with it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I order Nationwide Building Society to:
1. Pay £21,388 to Mr H to reimburse him for the cost of the caravan.
2. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
3. Arrange for the caravan to be collected from Mr H at no cost to him.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 2 above. Nationwide must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman