DRN-2919412
The complaint
Mr A complains that his claim to Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBGI) on his home 
insurance policy for internal and external damage after heavy rain has been unfairly 
declined. 
There are several parties and representatives of LBGI involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to LBGI.
What happened
During heavy rain in January 2021 Mr A noticed water coming in from the comer of his dining 
room window. It was night time and stormy weather, so he put some cloths out to dry it. 
The following morning, he noticed the wallpaper on the adjacent wall was wet and was 
peeling off. He put out some more dry cloths and an electric heater on to try and dry it out. It 
didnt resolve the problem. 
Mr A decided to remove the wet wallpaper and on doing this he noticed a crack in the wall 
where he said water was seeping through. It finally stopped and dried out, so Mr A made a 
claim on his home insurance policy. Mr A said that the weather on the evening the damage 
occurred was classed as storm conditions, so the claim is valid. 
A LBGI surveyor attended in February 2021 and assessed the damage from outside. Due to 
Covid restrictions he did not enter Mr As house. The surveyor told Mr A that as the damage 
was maintenance-related and not from a one-off storm it would not be covered by the 
insurance. 
A few days later LBGI confirmed to Mr A that both the external and internal damage was not 
covered under the home insurance policy. The claim was declined in full. 
The reason given to Mr A from LBGI was that on inspection of the external parts of the 
house, cracks in recently applied pointing were found, and both the window sill and lintel 
above were in a poor state of repair. The damage was not consistent with storm damage 
from a one-off event, but by poor workmanship which is excluded under the policy. Since 
LBGI didnt believe the external damage to be covered under the policy terms, they also 
rejected the internal damage claim.
Mr A stated that as he had been shielding since the previous year, he had not been outside 
to check on the outside condition of the house, so he was not aware of the damage. LBGI 
said that it was his responsibility as the home owner to maintain the property and if isolating 
could have asked a family member to check. 
LBGI wrote to Mr A to confirm that they still were declining the claim in full. 
As Mr A was not happy with LBGIs decision he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator decided that LBGI were fair to decline the claim. As Mr A is unhappy with 
our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked closely at what the parties have said and the photos of the outside of Mr As 
home. It appears that the windowsill and the lintel were in a poor state of repair. On the 
windowsill the stone appears to be eroded and the metal work within the stone shows 
through and the lintel was cracked in places. I think this damage would have been visible for 
a long period of time. The new pointing had cracks in it and Mr A accepted that there were 
maintenance-related issues to the outside of his property in a call with LBGI. 
Mr A said that having to shield, he personally was not likely to have taken detailed notice of 
the brickwork outside of his house. Mr As representative stated that he lived alone however 
in Mr As home insurance policy that started on 24 Aug 2020 it states that the house was 
occupied by three adults and two children and I cannot find any changes to the policy. In any 
event, I feel it is reasonable to believe that there have been family members living and/or 
visiting the house thourought Mr As period of sheilding and Mr A could have asked one of 
them to check this.
Mr A has referred to differences in estimations of the level of rainfall at the time of the water 
getting thorugh his wall and feels that the level of rain that fell was classed as storm 
conditions. I consider the specific level of rainfall is irrelevant and makes no difference to the 
outcome of the claim decision as I consider the damage was wear and tear and due to 
maintenance issues over a period of time and not caused by rain in a one off event.
The cracking to the internal wall does not appear to have been caused by a one-off incident 
due to ingress of water, it was on an adjacent wall and there is no evidence in the photos 
submitted by Mr A of any water damage or seepage through a crack. I think this damage is 
also likely to be due to wear and tear of the property, however if Mr A thinks there is a 
possibility that his home is suffering from subsidence he should make a separate claim to 
LBGI.
Consequently, I dont uphold Mr As complaint and feel that LBGI have applied the terms of 
the insurance policy correctly and were fair in their decision to decline his claim for both 
internal and external damage as they were not caused by a one-off storm.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman