DRN-3126796
The complaint
Mr S says his complaint is about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failing to 
execute, on a timely basis, his instructions (in 2019 and 2020) to liquidate funds in his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP); failing to properly address his requests, in March and 
April 2020, for information about its execution of the instructions; failing to properly address 
the substance of his complaint about the matter; failing to respond to the complaint in time 
(within 40 days); and failing, overall, to treat him fairly in these matters. To resolve these 
matters, he seeks disclosure of the information he requested, compensation for any resulting 
financial loss caused by Aviva and compensation for any costs that he ought not to have 
incurred in the transactions.
Aviva says the 2019 matter cited by Mr S was addressed at the time in a final response 
informing him of his right of referral to this service, that it was not referred to this service in 
time, that it is beyond our jurisdiction for this reason and that it (Aviva) does not give consent 
for the matter to be treated by this service. 
With regards to the other matters, Aviva says five liquidations were instructed by Mr S 
financial adviser (on his behalf) between February and March 2020; the first two were 
completed in time (without delays); completion of the third was delayed by the relevant fund 
manager, so the delay was beyond its control; that delayed completion of the fourth (which 
could not be processed until the third had been completed); the fifth was delayed by a 
rebalancing of the SIPPs model portfolio which his adviser should have been aware of; all 
the instructions were handled consistently with its terms and Order Execution Policy (OEP); 
it responded to Mr S information requests with disclosures to him and it informed him that if 
he remained dissatisfied he could refer to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO); it 
has acknowledged an isolated fault by its Data Protection team in the processing of his 
request, for which it apologised to him and paid him £100 for distress and inconvenience; 
and it has also acknowledged that it took longer to address his complaint than it would have 
hoped, for which it apologised and offered him an additional £100.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. Overall, he found as follows:
The 2019 matter was addressed by Aviva in that year, it issued its final response on 
the matter, Mr S did not refer the matter to this service within the six months referral 
time limit, so it is out of time, his late referral does not appear to have been caused 
by exceptional circumstances, it is outside our jurisdiction and Aviva does not give 
consent for us to address it. Overall, we cannot address it. His arguments about the 
2019 complaint being pursued by his financial adviser  and not directly by him  do 
not alter this finding. The complaint was his, it was made by the adviser representing 
him and expressly on his behalf (in an email that was copied to him) and the 
response from Aviva was sent to the adviser in the same capacity, so it was a 
response to his complaint.
The relevant liquidation instruction dates (in 2020) were  28 February, 9 March, 12 
March, 16 March and 27 March. Mr S information request was for emails, file notes, 
database notes and manuscript file notes related to each instruction; dates and times 
Aviva received each instruction, the same for the execution of each instruction (and 
underlying sales) and all associated data; confirmation of the units held in the funds 
(and prices) at the time of receiving the instructions; the prices achieved in executing 
each instruction; and confirmation of any transaction costs in each case.
Aviva appears to have disclosed the information it was required to provide  including 
the contract notes for each transaction, with all relevant details. It has also disclosed 
enough information to determine the key issue in the complaint  whether (or not) it 
executed the instructions within a reasonable timeframe and in a fair way. 
Furthermore, it provided Mr S with a Subject Access Request (SAR) 
disclosure/response in May 2020 and it directed him to the ICO if he has any further 
disclosure issues  which is a matter outside this services remit.
Available information shows that the first order was placed by Mr S adviser on 28 
February, it was filled on 2 March and it was settled on 5 March; the second was 
placed by the adviser on 9 March, it was filled on 10 March and it was settled on 13 
March; the third was placed by the adviser on 12 March and it was filled and settled 
on 24 March; the fourth was placed by the adviser on 16 March, it was queued 
thereafter, then it was filled on 26 March and settled on 31 March; the fifth was 
placed by the adviser on 27 March, it was filled on 6 April and settled on 9 April.
The first two orders were executed without delay. The third was delayed by the 
relevant fund manager not providing the contract note until 24 March, there was 
notice in the OEP that third-parties could potentially cause such a delay and notice of 
Avivas disclaimer of responsibility for such third-party action. The delay in the third 
meant the fourth had to be queued pending its (the thirds) completion. The OEP 
provided for, and gave notice, about this too. The fourth was correctly processed 
after completion of the third. The fifth was delayed by the portfolio rebalancing that 
happened at the time. That delay was reasonable in the circumstances, and in the 
absence of evidence that the rebalancing should not have happened it would not be 
reasonable to find fault with Aviva in this respect. Overall, there were some delays 
but none in which Aviva was at fault.
Mr S disagrees with this outcome. In the main, he said:
The investigator misguided himself on the 2019 complaint issue. The facts are that 
Aviva did not provide him with a response to this issue  it provided his adviser with 
the response; Aviva did not give him notice of his right to refer the matter to this 
service  it gave his adviser that notice; and his first sight of Avivas 2019 final 
response letter happened when this service sent him a copy of it (in 2021). He 
retains his right to personally complain about the matter, to refer that complaint to this 
service and to have this service determine the complaint, because he has done the 
former two (complaint and referral) in time and because any jurisdiction analysis 
based on Avivas 2019 response is remote to him personally and relates only to his 
adviser. 
The investigator failed to address his complaint about the disclosure of information  
as set out in his submissions  which is required prior to the assessment of whether 
(or not) he has incurred a financial loss. He reserves his position on the matter of 
financial loss, pending this outstanding disclosure. Avivas failure to disclose the 
information he requested potentially seeks to conceal its wrongdoings and unfair 
practices. It also amounts to a breach of the regulators Principles for businesses in terms of (but not limited to) Principles 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 10. This service has a duty to 
scrutinise a number of investor protection issues inherent within his case.
As of October 2021, it was over a year and a half since he first put his information 
disclosure request to Aviva and it was over a year and a third since he approached 
this service for assistance.
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avivas Complaint Handling Process
As summarised above, a part of Mr S case relates to this subject. He is unhappy that Aviva 
did not respond to his complaint in time and, as is evident from his communications with 
Aviva, about other aspects of its complaint handling.
I do not have jurisdiction to address this part of his case, because my remit does not extend 
to determining isolated matters of complaint handling. The rules for this services jurisdiction 
are set out in the regulators Handbook, within its Dispute Resolution (DISP) provisions. 
DISP 2.3.1 R says our jurisdiction covers only complaints about firms carrying out regulated 
activities (or ancillary activities connected to regulated activities). The Handbook defines a 
complaint as any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, 
or on behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, 
claims management service or a redress determination, which alleges that the complainant 
has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience. 
On its own, complaint handling is not a regulated activity and is not an ancillary activity 
connected to the conduct of a regulated activity. A complaint about complaint handling (in 
isolation) is one that falls outside DISP 2.3.1 R. Such a complaint is also not  about the 
provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, claims management service or 
a redress determination   so it falls outside the Handbooks definition of a complaint. 
Sometimes a complaint to a firm and the handling and/or processing of that complaint might 
form a part of the substantive case (about a regulated activity) pursued by the complainant. 
For example, where the facts are such that the alleged mishandling of a complaint is a part 
of the substantive problem in the case or is alleged to have played a role in obstructing or 
delaying its resolution. In such cases, determining the firms complaint handling might be a 
necessary part of determining the overall complaint. This does not apply to Mr S case.
Mr S initial communications with Aviva about the 2019 and 2020 complaint issues happened 
over 8 and 9 April 2020. The same mainly applies to the information disclosure he sought, 
there were some disclosure related emails between him and Aviva prior to these dates but 
his use of the SAR for this purpose appears to have begun from these dates. Avivas 
complaint response was issued in June 2020. Mr S expressed, to Aviva, dissatisfaction with 
its complaint handling/process before and after this response. However, the substantive 
matters in his case were/are the executions of the specific liquidation instructions he gave in 
both years. The earliest instruction was in August 2019 (executed in the same month)  
which I address separately below  and, as I set out above, the last instruction was on 27 
March 2020 (with the relevant order filled on 6 April and settled on 9 April). I am satisfied that 
Mr S complaint handling complaint, which arose after his complaint and expressions of 
dissatisfaction from 8 April onwards, is isolated, that it was not a part of the substantive liquidation instructions and executions issues that began and ended (in the main) before his 
complaint and that it played no obstructive or delaying role(s) in those issues.
Our Case Handling
Mr S has referred to the length of time over which his complaint has been in our service. If 
he is dissatisfied about our service in this respect, it is a matter beyond my remit and beyond 
the remit of this decision. The only purpose of this decision is to determine his substantive 
complaint about Aviva.
Alleged Breach of Principles 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 10
We do not have or share a regulatory function. If the alleged breach is established in the 
issues relevant to the determination of Mr S complaint (and the issues that I have remit to 
address), it can be addressed in this context. However, we do not have the remit to address 
it as an isolated matter of alleged regulatory breach. It is also worth noting that if I find a 
wrongdoing by Aviva that also happens to be in breach of any of the above Principles, I do 
not have the power to take any punitive measure or to make a punitive award against Aviva.
The 2019 Complaint
The facts are that in September 2019 Mr S adviser complained, on his behalf and in an 
email that was openly copied to him, about the August 2019 liquidation instruction and 
execution matter; Aviva issued its complaint response (in which it referred to the advisers 
submission of September and rejected the complaint) to the adviser on 11 October 2019; its 
responses covering email said  please find attached my resolution letter for the complaint 
you registered on behalf of [Mr S]; the response letter retained the same context and gave 
notice of the right to refer to this service in the following manner  Your client has the right 
to refer their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service  within six months of 
the date of this letter [Avivas bold text but my emphasis]; the response also confirmed 
that it would not consent to us addressing a complaint referred to us out of time (which Aviva 
has reaffirmed to us in the course our investigations); the complaint was not referred to us 
within six months from 11 October 2019.
I have not seen a subsequent complaint response from Aviva on the matter that had the 
effect of withdrawing or nullifying its October 2019 response. Like the investigator said, there 
does not appear to be any evidence that the referral to us was delayed by exceptional 
circumstances. 
The above [2019] complaint is out of time and cannot be addressed by this service. It is the 
same complaint that Mr S now says we should address on the basis that it was re-presented 
personally, by him, in 2020. I disagree. Available evidence shows that the 2019 complaint 
was his, that it was pursued on his behalf by his adviser and that he was aware of that 
pursuit at the time because he was copied into the complaint submission. The reasons why it 
was not referred to this service, in time, after Avivas final response do not relate to 
exceptional circumstances, so we have no discretion in the matter. The complaint is out of 
time, we do not have jurisdiction to address it and Aviva does not give us consent to do so. 
Mr S Information Disclosure Request
Within his submissions to this service, Mr S said  The complaint correspondence refers to 
some subject access requests and GDPR concerns and the FOS need not concern itself 
with these and I am aware of the assistance the ICO can provide on these. He appears to 
be aware of the distinction between our service and the ICO, in terms of information 
disclosure. This provides the context for my approach towards the part of his case which, despite his statement above, still appears to require from us assistance (and/or a finding) to 
resolve his concerns about Avivas response to his disclosure request. In isolation, it is a 
matter beyond this services remit. Instead, and as he acknowledges, it is a matter for the 
ICO, which Aviva has referred him to.
The above does not mean we have no role in obtaining information and evidence from a 
firm. We do, but that role is defined by the complaint we address in each case. If we have 
enough information and evidence to determine a complaint, we can proceed on that basis. If 
not, we can ask for information and evidence. Overall, I consider that there is enough 
information and evidence to determine Mr S substantive complaint about the liquidation 
instructions and executions. The date of each instruction is known and is not in dispute; the 
date on which each liquidation was completed is also known and not in dispute; Aviva has 
referred us to information and evidence from its system, with regards to what happened in 
each transaction; I have not seen evidence to show or suggest that these records are 
unreliable; it has also shared copies of the relevant terms and conditions for the SIPP 
account and OEP. In broad terms, this body of information is enough to establish if and/or 
where there were delays to the execution of Mr S instructions and, if so, to address liability 
for them. 
The 2020 Fund Liquidations
Execution of Mr S instructions (through his adviser) to liquidate on the relevant dates in 
2020 essentially brought into play Avivas terms and process for trading within its SIPP. First, 
it is worth repeating how the relevant five trades were handled. The investigators findings in 
this respect is accurately based on evidence that has been presented to us, which I have 
verified. I repeat my summary (above) of those findings as follows  
Available information shows that the first order was placed by Mr S adviser on 28 February, 
it was filled on 2 March and it was settled on 5 March; the second was placed by the adviser 
on 9 March, it was filled on 10 March and it was settled on 13 March; the third was placed by 
the adviser on 12 March and it was filled and settled on 24 March; the fourth was placed by 
the adviser on 16 March, it was queued thereafter, then it was filled on 26 March and settled 
on 31 March; the fifth was placed by the adviser on 27 March, it was filled on 6 April and 
settled on 9 April.
The first and second orders were not delayed. Evidence from Avivas system shows that 
both were authorised and placed for trading on the same dates they were received. 28 
February 2020 was a Friday and 2 March was the Monday that followed, so this order was 
filled one working day after it was submitted and settled three working days thereafter. The 
second order was also filled one working day after its submission and settled three working 
days thereafter. Settlement was of course dependent on the counterparty funds/fund 
managers relevant to the sale transactions, so settlement time was not something that Aviva 
could be held responsible for. The same applies to filling the sell orders. Overall, there were 
no undue delays caused by Aviva in these two orders and no undue delays in their 
completion. Three working days for settlement does not appear to have been an 
unreasonable period for the fund liquidations in the circumstances of Mr S case.
For the sake of completeness, the aforementioned evidence also shows that the third, fourth 
and fifth orders were also authorised and placed for trading on the same date each was 
received  authorisation and placement for the fourth and fifth had to be subsequently 
adjusted for the reasons I will address below.
The third order (of 12 March) was not filled until 24 March. Transaction evidence of this  
and of the filling of other orders from Mr S  has been shared with us and, on balance, I 
consider it reliable. This delay was not caused by Aviva and I have not seen evidence that it contributed to it. The task of filling the order belonged to the relevant fund/fund manager, not 
Aviva, and the order was placed to the fund manager on 12 March.
It is set out in the OEP that an order that is yet to complete could delay others that are 
thereafter placed. Consistent with this, Aviva has explained that its platform queues such a 
subsequent order until the preceding one is completed. In Mr S case, the result was that the 
delay in completing the third order meant that whilst the fourth order (of 16 March) was 
authorised and placed on the date of receipt, it had to be queued and its authorisation and 
placement were revised on 24 and 25 March following completion of the third order. 
Thereafter, it was filled on the next working day (26 March) and settled three working days 
after on 31 March.
Available evidence from Aviva is that a portfolio rebalancing happened at the time of the fifth 
order (of 27 March). Such rebalancing is provided for in the terms for the SIPP account, 
where it says they are scheduled upon arrangement with the adviser for the account. Aviva 
says Mr S adviser ought reasonably to have known about the rebalancing taking place at 
the time of the fifth order. On balance, based on the information Aviva has provided about 
this and in the absence of evidence that persuades me otherwise, I accept that this 
rebalancing was happening at the time. I also accept that the system had to conclude that 
before progressing the fifth order. The terms say the exercise involved fund switching to 
correct any drift, in the portfolio, away from its model  due to varying investment 
performances within the portfolio over time. In such circumstances, it does not appear 
unreasonable that the fifth order awaited its conclusion before being progressed.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not uphold Mr S claim that Aviva is 
responsible for the delayed executions of his instructions. As such, the matter of 
compensation becomes redundant, and I have not seen evidence of associated transaction 
costs incurred by him in the trades that he ought not to have incurred.
Mr S has drawn our attention to a particular communication in a separate complaint (about a 
different matter) that he submitted to Aviva. He says it is evidence of Aviva conceding that 
processing of an instruction directly from him should take 24 hours and that such should be 
even quicker if instructed by an adviser. He appears to argue that this indirectly serves as a 
concession from Aviva that it did not execute his 2020 adviser-led instructions  in the 
present complaint  in a timely manner. I have considered this communication and it does 
not establish what Mr S asserts. 
The letter is from Aviva  dated 30 July 2020  and the relevant section addresses the 
difference in its handling of instructions between those directly from an individual and those 
from the individuals adviser. Aviva said it will process a sell instruction directly from him 
within 24 hours. Wider evidence from Aviva shows that processing meant/means the first 
three of five stages applied to an instructed transaction  up to its completion. The first is 
submission of the trade order through the platform; the second is authorisation of the orders 
submission by Avivas system; the third is placement of the order, whereby it is sent to the 
relevant fund/fund managers to be filled and completed; the fourth is the filling of the order 
by the relevant counterparty; and the fifth is settlement of the filled order with that party. It is 
clear from this that Avivas process was limited to the first three stages and that third-party 
action was required in the fourth and fifth stages, which Aviva did not control. The OEP 
confirmed that it was not responsible for third-parties in this respect 
As stated above, Avivas system processed each of the five instructions on the same day 
each was received  therefore within 24 hours. Its 30 July 2020 letter also made a distinction 
relevant to the comparison that Mr S makes. It said an instruction would be executed  not 
processed  quicker where it is received online from an adviser. It was addressing one of the 
benefits of trades instructed through an adviser an its online platform. The statements, as I have read them, did not say that an instruction from Mr S would be 
executed within 24 hours and that one from an adviser on his behalf would be executed 
even quicker than that.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman