DRN-2795324
The complaint
Miss R complains that Bridgewater Support Solutions Ltd (Bridgewater) mis -led her into 
believing her credit file wouldnt be affected when she entered a debt management plan 
(DMP) with it.
What happened
In 2014 Miss R contacted Bridgewater for advice in relation to some outstanding debts that 
she was struggling to keep up payments on. Bridgewater advised her that she was eligible 
for a DMP to consolidate the debts and reduce her monthly payments. Miss R agreed to the 
plan and Bridgewater arranged it. Her new monthly payment included a fee charged by 
Bridgewater for managing the plan.
In 2018 Miss R was gifted money by her parents to pay the remaining balance off in full. It 
was around this time that she noticed her credit file contained two defaults relating to the 
consolidated debts.
In 2020 Miss R spoke to a mortgage advisor as she was looking to buy a property with her 
partner, the mortgage adviser told her that the defaults would affect her ability to get a 
mortgage. 
So Miss R complained to Bridgewater  she said:
Bridgewater specifically told her during her set up call that the DMP would not affect 
her credit rating. 
Bridgewater told her it would take her five years to clear her debts, but it wouldve 
taken longer than this as there was still a large amount outstanding when she made 
her final lump sum payment in 2018. 
She also asked Bridgewater for call recordings of her calls with it from the time of setting up 
the DMP.
Bridgewater didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint but responded saying: the estimated term for 
her DMP, which was based on the figures she gave it when setting it up, was five years and 
six months. When Bridgewater contacted the creditors, the actual figures differed by around 
£900, which increased the term. Had she continued with the plan it would have taken six 
years and two months to complete.
It also said when setting up the DMP on the telephone its adviser would have told Miss R of 
the potential affect on her credit file. It confirmed that it provided Miss R with a pack 
containing the following documents:
Terms and conditions (T&Cs)
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
The Debt Management Plan  Fact Sheet (Fact Sheet)
Those documents contain the following information:
T&Cs:
3. Our Responsibilities
3.6 During the negotiation process some creditors may continue to charge interest or 
other charges. We cannot always prevent these but they will be included to be paid 
off as part of the debt management plan.
3.7 Contractual payments shall not be met during the Debt Management Plan, 
particularly throughout the initial negotiation period of 6 months.
3.8 The Debt Management Plan is likely to impact on your credit file with the result 
being you might not be able to obtain credit in the short term and that there is some 
likelihood that you may not be able to obtain credit in the medium to long term either.
3.9 Reduced payments to your creditors will affect your credit rating.
3.10 Your creditors may issue default notices which will be registered against you on 
your credit file for up to 6 years.
FAQs:
7. Does debt management affect my credit rating?
If you have already missed payments it is likely your creditors have recorded the 
information on your credit file. Your ability to obtain credit will be affected in the short 
term and may be affected in the medium to long term. However, it is very important 
that you do not take out credit while you are on the debt management plan as this 
could affect arrangements already in place. (Repaying debt over a longer period of 
time can increase the total amount of debt owed).
Fact Sheet:
Entering into a Debt Repayment Arrangement with your creditors will affect your 
credit rating in the short, medium, and long term. As contractual payments may be 
broken you may receive default notices from your creditors.
There is no protection against creditors taking recovery action.
On the last point it explained that it no longer had the call recordings due to the passage of 
time.
Miss R remained unhappy and so brought her complaint to this service. The investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint, in summary they said:
Bridgewater had a duty under the relevant regulations, in this case Consumer Credit Source 
Book (CONC), to provide Miss R with the advice it gave to her in a durable medium. He felt 
that although the call recordings were no longer available, it was most likely Miss R was had 
received the documents quoted above as she had signed the letter of authority that was sent 
to her with them in the pack. And as he felt the information in those documents was clear he 
was satisfied that she had been provided with the relevant information before entering into 
the DMP, and so Bridgewater had fulfilled the requirements set out in CONC. He was also satisfied that the payment term was correct as per the information Miss R 
provided to Bridgewater and only changed once the creditors confirmed the correct 
outstanding balances.
Miss R disagreed with the investigator, she said:
The absence of call recordings shouldnt fall into Bridgewaters favour
The website isnt clear as it says . Joining a DMP could affect your ability to obtain 
credit Miss R thinks this should say will not could
Desperate people cant be expected to read the terms and conditions with full 
understanding and something with such a huge impact should be explained clearly.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I have to tell Miss R that I wont be upholding her complaint, Ill explain.
Term of plan
Miss R has not questioned or disputed the amount she owed, just the time frame to pay it 
back, so I have not looked into the amount and have limited my findings to the length of the 
plan.
Miss R entered the DMP owing approximately £14,647, and her monthly payments were to 
be £267 per month, with £52.06 of this to be retained by Bridgewater for the management of 
the plan and the remaining £214.94 to be distributed among her creditors. So, assuming no 
further charges or interest was added by the creditors, which they are able to do, it would 
have taken Miss R five years and nine months to complete the plan. Given these figures I 
think its unlikely Bridgewater could have confirmed to Miss R that the debts would be settled 
in four years. So, I dont require them to do anything regarding this point.
Advice
As has previously been explained Bridgwater had a duty under CONC 8 to provide copies of 
advice and any key facts that Miss R needed to be aware of in a durable medium. Im 
satisfied it did this for the following reasons. 
Bridgewater has advised me that its set up calls contain certain scripted elements that are 
mandatory for the advisor to complete, these include, but arent limited to:
The disclosure of fees payable
The estimated timescale to repay the debts
Statement regarding the impact to credit file Miss R confirmed in her complaint form to us that she knew there was a monthly 
management fee payable and that she was given an estimated timescale to repay the debt. 
Given that these mandatory scripted elements happened, I minded to believe that its more 
likely than not that the statement regarding the impact to her credit file was also completed 
on the call.
Miss R has said that the absence of the call recordings shouldnt fall to Bridgewaters favour. 
But even if I were to set the above aside, the documents that were contained in her welcome 
pack were clear. They all either said the DMP would or could affect her credit rating. 
I understand Miss R feels that the website is misleading, and she should have had definitive 
information about how her credit file would be affected, but I dont think it would have 
changed things for Miss R, even if that were the case. I say this because, the notes on Miss 
Rs file, which are persuasive as they are from the time of the set up call, say that she was 
over stretched and had had her bank card cancelled because of payday loans. So, its clear 
she was in financial difficulties at that time. Im also minded to think this because she said 
herself, when you are desperate you cant be expected to read the terms and conditions with 
any understanding. So, while I have every sympathy for Miss Rs situation, I think she had 
found herself in a difficult position and needed a way to get back on track, for her the DMP 
felt like a suitable option at the time and so Im persuaded that she would have entered into it 
regardless of the potential impact to her credit file.
It follows I think Bridgewater met its obligations to Miss R by telling her in a durable medium 
that her credit rating and her ability to obtain credit could be affected by her choice to enter 
into the DMP, and so I dont require it to put things right here for her.
I understand Miss Rs strength of feeling about this and recognise the impact it is having on 
her life now, and I know she will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends 
what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Bridgewater can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman