DRN-4095969
The complaint
A limited company, while Ill refer to as P, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
has unfairly failed to compensate it for consequential losses arising from the banks failure to 
give due consideration to its restructuring proposals. 
P is legally represented in bringing this complaint. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions from Ps legal representatives as being from P itself. 
What happened
In 2007, P bought equipment, which was essential to its business, partly funded by 
borrowing from RBS. This was initially on overdraft, with a plan to start making repayments 
once the equipment was refurbished and trading using it had commenced. 
By mid 2010, market conditions were unfavourable and the business had yet to generate 
enough cash or profits to reduce its borrowing, which stood at around £1.3 million. The bank 
transferred the management of Ps account to its Global Restructuring Group (GRG). 
Ps GRG relationship manager made it clear that the bank wanted the debt repaid. In late 
2010, RBS declared Ps debt in default. It said P could have twelve months, in which to 
repay the debt through either asset sales or refinancing. During the twelve months, RBS said 
they would convert the overdraft to a term loan on an interest only basis. 
P responded with an alternative restructuring proposal. It said it could sell and lease back 
some of its rights to enable it to reduce its overdraft by around 25%. It would then lease 
more rights, enabling it to generate more cash and repay the remaining bank debt over ten 
years. The proposal was made via a large and experienced operator in Ps industry (the 
agent), which was willing to buy Ps rights. The agent also prepared profit and cashflow 
forecasts on Ps behalf. 
RBS rejected this proposal and reiterated their twelve months offer. In March 2011, P made 
a further similar restructuring proposal via the agent, with fresh projections. This was again 
rejected. During the remainder of 2011, RBS agreed several short overdraft extensions, 
whilst P tried to refinance elsewhere. 
In December 2011, the bank offered to provide a loan of £400,000 if the overdraft was repaid 
in full. P accepted this proposal and in May 2012, sold off rights worth £1.2 million to repay 
most of its debt. P then sold the equipment in June, thereby ceasing to trade but repaying 
the bank in full. 
Later, as part of the banks general review of accounts managed by GRG, RBS made an 
automatic fee refund of £8,164, plus interest, in respect of asset sale fees. This was paid to 
P in 2017. The banks further review of actions by GRG gave its conclusions in 2020. After 
an independent appeal stage, RBS upheld complaints about other fees and offered 
additional compensation of £16,250 plus interest. 
The bank also upheld a complaint about unreasonable demands for repayment, but didnt 
award any compensation. The appeal review concluded that the bank had failed to give 
proper consideration to Ps restructuring proposals before rejecting them. 
P accepted the outcome of the banks review and went on to submit a claim for 
consequential losses arising from the banks unreasonable failure to give its proposals due 
consideration. P argued that, had the bank fairly considered Ps proposals and engaged with 
them, P would have been able to retain its assets and continue to trade. It therefore claimed 
for lost profits of £904,774 and lost value on assets that would have been retained of £1.1 
million, as well as some fees incurred in making the claim. 
RBS didnt accept Ps consequential loss claim, nor was it accepted on appeal (although 
compensation for £9,010 of legal fees was offered). The appeal concluded that, had the 
bank adequately engaged with Ps proposals, RBS would still not have agreed to them, or a 
modified version of them. 
P referred its claim to our service. It said that the banks unfair actions had caused the 
premature cessation of its business and the banks handling of its claim was irrational, self-
serving and had failed to give proper weight to GRGs turnaround objective. 
One of our investigators looked into the claim, but didnt recommend upholding it. He said 
that even if the bank had made the offer to lend £400,000 earlier, P hadnt shown that this 
would have enabled it to pay down its debt and avoid asset sales.  
P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. It supplied a copy of a 
report prepared by consultants to support its claim on the bank and made the following 
points:
If the bank had offered the £400,000 loan earlier, it would have avoided P defaulting.
P would have maintained a more stable platform to continue its business operations 
rather than focussing on business cessation. 
The threat of enforcement meant P wasnt able to engage in structured business 
planning or find alternative finance.
GRG was meant to pursue turnaround objectives. This was disregarded in favour of 
generating fees and forced asset sales. 
P could have refinanced the rest of the bank overdraft by selling part of its rights to 
the agent, as it had proposed. 
The consultants report showed that P would have been viable following the 
restructure P had proposed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.  First I should say that Im unable to consider Ps complaints about the way the bank has 
conducted its GRG review. The mechanisms of voluntary reviews carried out by banks are 
outside the legal scope of the Financial Ombudsman Service. However, we are able to 
consider complaints about the outcomes of such reviews, and thats what Ive done here. 
Because the original complaint has already been resolved between the parties, this decision 
starts from an agreed position that the bank should have given proper consideration and 
responded fully to Ps proposals for reducing and restructuring its debt. Ps complaint is now 
about consequential losses arising from that error.
In order to decide whether the bank has acted fairly, I need to look at whether the banks 
error caused the consequential losses claimed. I also need to compare what actually 
happened with whats likely to have happened if the bank had considered the proposals in 
detail and engaged with them fully. I accept that there is no certainty about this and I cant 
know for sure what would have happened over a decade ago. But that is not unusual in our 
services work. I need to decide, based on all available evidence, whats more likely than not 
to have happened.
Ps borrowing was on demand. So theres no dispute that the bank was entitled to ask for 
their money back if they chose. The banks error was to fail to think carefully and fairly about 
Ps restructuring plan. But that doesnt mean RBS should have agreed to the plan. I need to 
decide whether its more likely than not that the bank would have agreed if it had considered 
the proposal fairly. Theres also a further possibility, which is that the bank might not have 
agreed to that proposal, but it might then fairly have opened a dialogue that led to a plan that 
was acceptable to both parties. 
I think its relevant here to note that the bank transferred P to GRG because of concerns 
over its performance. Its not in dispute that P hadnt met its forecasts, which had been 
provided by the agent in 2007 and had never generated enough cash to make any debt 
repayments. It was also loss-making after interest in 2009. I know P has pointed out that 
interest had always been serviced up to that point, but the intention when the lending was 
agreed was that P should have been making repayments as well as covering interest by that 
time. 
In addition, Ive reviewed the banks policies on Ps industry sector at the time and these 
show that the banks appetite to lend to the sector was limited and P operated in the part of 
the sector it liked least. Where it did lend, RBS guidelines indicated that it would lend for a 
maximum of ten years up to 50% of the equipment value. Although P had other assets that 
had a value, in the form of rights, the banks policies treated lending against rights as 
unsecured. This is important as it shows the framework within which RBS would have made 
its decision, if it had given Ps plan due consideration. And I also think its reasonable for 
banks to set their appetites for lending to different sectors in this way. 
Ps equipment had been valued at £1.1million in April 2008, but the agent informally valued it 
at £800,000 in October 2010. By February 2012, a further professional valuation valued it at 
£700,000. The banks sanctioning officials would therefore have been unlikely to approve 
ongoing debt to P at more than £400,000. Ps proposal in late 2010 was to ask the bank to accept a 25% reduction in debt, based on P 
selling and leasing back a third of its rights. Repayment of the remaining 75% of the 
overdraft (around £990,000) was dependent on achieving a 60% growth in turnover, based 
on new projections. 
It is agreed that the bank should have considered the proposal carefully and provided 
reasons for its decision, but given the background Ive set out above, I dont think its likely 
that the bank would have agreed to it. If the bank had engaged with the proposal more 
positively, I think its more likely than not that, given Ps track record of failing to hit 
projections at that time, RBS would have gone back to P to say that they wanted a far 
greater reduction in debt of around £900,000 (bringing borrowing down to 50% of the 
equipment value). 
P has argued that if the bank had proposed the £400,000 loan, which it offered in December 
2011, earlier, then it would have avoided P defaulting. But P was already in default before it 
made its proposal to the bank, so Im not persuaded this is correct. 
P has also said that this option would have given it more stability to continue its business 
operations. I understand Ps argument that providing this certainty earlier would have 
enabled it to focus on building its business, thereby potentially enabling it to produce the 
performance needed to refinance elsewhere. But the bank had offered P a years breathing 
space, which would in my view have gone some way to providing this opportunity to focus. In 
any case, I think the real problem is that a precondition for the £400,000 loan was a 
£900,000 debt reduction. 
P has suggested that the debt reduction was achievable by selling rights to the agent. But 
this would have been a considerably larger sale than the one P offered, possibly of all its 
rights. The agent didnt propose this and Ive seen no evidence that the agent would have 
been willing to buy all the rights in 2010/early 2011. Even if it was willing, the agent also 
needed to be willing to lease all the rights back to P, otherwise P wouldnt have been able to 
trade. And if the agent was prepared to agree to both those things, then P would have 
needed to generate enough cash to pay for considerable ongoing leasing commitments from 
that point on, as well as meet its obligations to the bank. 
In deciding what is likely to have happened, I think its relevant to consider what actually 
happened a year later. At the end of 2011, the bank agreed to provide a £400,000 loan, 
which is similar to what I think would have happened a year earlier, if the bank had applied 
more focus on finding an agreed way forward. After this agreement, P still chose to proceed 
with asset sales over the following year. 
I think the level of debt reduction the bank would have required to bring the lending in line 
with their policies would have been such that P would have had to sell up. In short, I think its 
more likely than not that an earlier offer to lend £400,000 would just have resulted in P taking 
the same actions as it took in 2012 a year or so earlier. 
Summary
I realise my decision will be disappointing to Ps owners. They lost a family business, which 
they feel would have recovered and become profitable if theyd been able to retain it. But a 
turnaround objective doesnt mean that the bank had to agree to every proposal put to it. In 
this case, given Ps difficult financial position and the banks lack of appetite for lending to 
the sector, I dont think the bank would ever have agreed to either of Ps restructuring 
proposals. My conclusion is that if the bank had considered Ps proposals fully and engaged in a 
dialogue, I dont think its likely that a mutually acceptable solution would have been found 
that would have enabled P to reduce its debts to a level acceptable to the bank, retain its 
assets and keep trading. 
P has claimed for consequential losses of around £2 million stemming from RBS failure to 
give due consideration to its proposals to restructure its borrowing. I do not consider these 
alleged losses to be the result of an error on the part of the bank, so I am not going to direct 
the bank to pay any compensation in relation to them. 
Putting things right
Although I am not upholding the main part of Ps consequential loss claim, P also claimed for 
several different professional fees. I agree with the conclusions of the third party review 
regarding these fees. I think the bank should pay the claim for legal fees of £9,010 incurred 
in bringing the direct loss complaint and appeal, which was largely upheld. I think it was 
reasonable for P to use legal representatives to help it identify and formulate its complaint 
and these fees arose directly from an upheld complaint. The bank should therefore cover 
these costs, rather than just a proportion of them as it originally proposed. 
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect the bank to cover the cost of the consultants 
report, which was prepared to try to quantify and justify Ps claim for loss of value and profits, 
which I am not upholding. Neither do RBS need to cover any additional legal or consultancy 
fees in relation to the consequential loss claim. I note the bank has already reimbursed the 
costs of an initial meeting to discuss the claim, which is in line with the banks guidelines.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I am not upholding the main part of this complaint, but I uphold it 
in part. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has already made an offer to pay £9,010 plus 
interest of £854.12 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay P £9,864.12.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman