DRN-4083608
The complaint
Mr W complains about the interest rate Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) charged for his overdraft.
What happened
Mr W opened an account with Monzo with a small overdraft. Mr W recently had his overdraft 
limit increased to £2,000 the maximum Monzo provides. Monzo advertises on its website 
various amounts it will charge for use of its overdraft facility including 19%, 29% or 39% and 
provides an example of how the charges are worked out.
Upon checking the interest rate applied to his overdraft Mr W discovered he was being 
charged at the higher rate. He was unhappy with this as he believed that having a good 
credit score would entitle him to a lower rate of interest charged.
Mr W complained to Monzo about this. Monzo said the rate it charges for an overdraft is 
dictated by various factors including, but not limited to a customers credit score. Monzo said 
that it hadnt found any fault in its systems when working out Mr Ws rate and that the correct 
rate had been applied.
Mr W was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns and reached the conclusion that Mr W 
wouldve been given notice of the exact rate charged and that Monzo hadnt acted unfairly 
when implementing the interest rate. 
Mr W disagreed he doesnt think that Monzos way of deciding on and applying interest rates 
is fair and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr W has experienced and see if Monzo has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr W back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr W is unhappy at the interest rate applied to his overdraft  he thinks its too high and 
doesnt believe Monzo gives any of its customers the lower rate advertised. Before I go any 
further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various amounts 
Monzo charges are fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the 
service provided.
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And this also applies in regards to how a bank runs its 
business. I cannot make a bank change its systems or processes such as how it works out 
what it is going to charge and who it will offer various rates too. 
All I can do is decide whether Monzo treated Mr W fairly and provided him with enough 
information to decide whether he wanted to have the overdraft facility on his account  
mainly, the amount of the overdraft and how much it was going to cost him. 
I can see that Monzo advertises different interest rates for its lending ranging from 19% up to 
39% on its website and explains that the exact rate a customer is on is provided in its app 
and that a customer will be told the exact rate before they borrow from it. So I think its likely 
Mr W wouldve been provided with the information he needed before he chose to use the 
overdraft facility offered on his account with Monzo.  
Mr W is unhappy that he didnt get the lower rate advertised considering he had a good 
credit score and was allowed the maximum overdraft limit of £2,000. But this was merely an 
advertisement of what rates Monzo would consider offering  it wasnt a guarantee that Mr 
W would get the lower rate. I understand that a customers credit score is one of the factors 
that determines the rate of interest charged, but this isnt the sole factor. So I cant say that 
Monzo has done anything wrong in applying the rate that it did.
Mr W says that Monzo are acting unfairly by granting people the maximum overdraft amount 
but not offering the low interest rates advertised. But I dont have any information about what 
Monzo is charging other customers and as stated above, how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. Im assessing Mr Ws individual complaint and my job 
here is to assess whether Monzo treated Mr W fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances 
of this complaint and in this case I havent seen enough to persuade me it didnt.  
So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman