DRN-3673652
The complaint
Miss J complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to her when she could not afford it.
What happened
AvantCredit approved one loan for Miss J in April 2015. It was for £3,000 plus interest 
repayable at £193.48 a month for 30 months. The total charge for credit was £2,804.48.
Miss J did not keep up with repayments, the debt was sold to a third party debt collection 
agency in August 2017. A County Court Judgment (CCJ) for this debt was obtained in 
September 2018 and Miss J settled it in October 2020. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought that AvantCredit should put 
things right for Miss J in relation to the loan. Our adjudicator thought that the repayment for 
this loan, alongside Miss Js existing regular monthly credit repayments, represented a 
significant proportion of Miss Js monthly income  more than half.
And our adjudicator had information which showed that Miss Js first scheduled repayment 
for this AvantCredit loan coincided with a repayment of around £850 towards a payday loan 
and so that meant that Miss J would have had no money at all. 
Miss J agrees with this outcome. However, in addition Miss J wants the CCJ set aside as 
well.
 AvantCredit has not responded to our adjudicators view.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Avant completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss J  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Miss J  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Avant did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss J and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Avant to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Js ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Miss J. In 
practice this meant that Avant had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Miss J undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss J. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Js complaint for the same reasons used by our adjudicator. 
I explain here. 
AvantCredit ought to have carried out a thorough review of Miss Js financial circumstances 
as this was a relatively large loan of £3,000 with a thirty month term. AvantCredit was told 
that Miss Js income was £1,700 a month and it carried out a credit reference agency (CRA) 
check to verify that income and to search for additional debt she may have had. 
So, AvantCredit was satisfied that her income was what she had told them it was. And it 
knew she had an overdraft facility on her bank account of £1,500 of which £1,046 had been 
used up. 
AvantCredit knew Miss J had an advance against income loan (a payday loan) which was 
an £850 repayment and she had a hire purchase agreement which cost her £328 a month. 
Plus, AvantCredit knew she had three other loans which were costing her £394 a month in 
total. AvantCredit has demonstrated it knew of these as it created a summarised credit lines 
table and those three loans were combined into one debt amounting to £1,397 with the 
combined monthly repayment of £394. 
My view is that AvantCredit had enough information from its own research to know that 
Miss J was regularly repaying £722 a month, and with its own loan that would have increased her monthly regular commitments to £915. That would have been 53% of her net 
income on those three sets of outgoings alone.
Add to this the £850 which Miss J was due to pay in the same month as her first repayment 
to AvantCredit then it would have realised she was not going to have enough to do that plus 
pay her usual living expenses for that month. 
If AvantCredit had any information which alerted it to do additional checks then it could, and 
in my view should, have asked to check on other aspects of Miss Js finances. One 
convenient (but not the only) way to do this would been to have asked to review some recent 
bank account statements. 
Miss J has sent to us copies of those bank statements for the relevant period leading up to 
the approval of this loan and I have looked at them.
They confirm to me that her income was just over £1,700 each month. They show me that 
Miss J was often hovering just under her overdraft limit of £1,500 before her salary credited 
the account. The statements show evidence of other high cost short term and instalment 
loans being utilised by her. So, they dovetail with the information AvantCredit had already 
obtained. 
A large part of the £3,000 credited to her account on 1 April 2015 from AvantCredit was used 
to repay the overdraft and several of the high cost loans. One in particular which was one 
payment due of £736 on 7 April 2015.  
So even if AvantCredit had been prompted, or had decided to carry out, further checks on 
Miss Js financial position I think the information it likely would have obtained would have 
endorsed the information about which it was already aware.
Miss J was not able to afford these repayments for the £3,000 loan over 30 months.
I uphold Miss Js complaint.
In relation to the CCJ, that looks as though it may have been initiated by a third party and not 
AvantCredit. And so, Miss J will have to seek independent legal advice in relation to her 
options there.
Putting things right
AvantCredit needs to do as follows  so far as it is able and then liaise with the third party 
debt owner (now settled) as to some of the additional fees and charges Miss J may have 
incurred.
refund all interest, fees and charges Miss J paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*
Any fees paid either to the third party or because of any court judgment need to be 
reimbursed and whether that means by AvantCredit reimbursing Miss J after that third 
party has informed it of the additional fees, or by AvantCredit asking the third party to 
reimburse Miss J, is a matter for AvantCredit and the third party. 
The April 2015 loan from AvantCredit appeared on Miss Js credit file (May 2022) and if it 
is still on Miss Js credit file it needs to be amended to remove adverse payment information. 
Miss J has sent to us a recent copy of her credit file (May 2022) and the CCJ appears on 
there. As I said in the body of my decision, this is a matter on which Miss J needs to take 
separate advice. I make no direction in relation to the CCJ other than the additional fees 
part. And until that CCJ has been set aside (if at all) its likely it will have to remain on the 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint and I direct that AvantCredit of UK LLC 
does as I have indicated above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman