DRN-4479915
The complaint
Miss H complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) failed to obtain CCTV footage
and a police report, following an accident claim she made under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H was involved in a collision when driving. She says the other driver was at fault and
had assaulted her at the scene. She says the police attended and viewed CCTV footage of
the accident. She says this showed the collision was the third-partys fault but didnt show
the assault. Miss H contacted her insurance broker and made a claim.
Miss H says it has taken many months and liability has still not been confirmed. This means
the claim is still open and has caused an increase in her premium. Miss H also raises
concerns that shes paid her policy excess fee despite the other driver being at fault.
In its final complaint response West Bay says that unfortunately there is no definitive
timeframe for resolving liability. It says it continues to hold the third-party insurer responsible.
But the third-party is disputing this. West Bay says a split-liability outcome was offered by the
third-party, which it rejected.
West Bay says it couldve done more to source the police statement and CCTV footage. It
says this wasnt highlighted in the claim information Miss Hs broker sent over. But it was
aware of the police involvement and the existence of CCTV footage in November 2022. This
is when Miss H sent a statement outlining the incident and sketch of the collision. West Bay
says it shouldve requested the CCTV and police report when the third-partys insurer
disputed liability.
In its complaint response West Bay says it has incurred costs as a result of Miss Hs claim
and liability has yet to be decided. It says because of this the claim is correctly showing as
no claims discount disallowed. If liability is later decided in Miss Hs favour West Bay says it
will change the record to non-fault and she can seek a premium refund. The business
declined to refund Miss Hs policy excess, which it says is payable in the event of a claim.
Miss H didnt think shed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator upheld her complaint. She says West Bay should request the missing CCTV and
police report and consider liability fairly. Because it failed to do this in a timely manner she
says this has likely delayed the liability decision. Our investigator says West Bay should
record the open claim as no-claims bonus allowed, until liability is decided. It should also pay
£200 for the distress and inconvenience the delay caused Miss H.
Miss H accepted this outcome. West Bay didnt respond.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Misss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint. Let me explain.
Im sorry to hear that Miss H was assaulted after the collision she was involved in. This must
have been very upsetting. I hope she is now feeling better. But for clarity, the assault is a
matter for the police. This isnt something I can consider here. I can, however, consider
whether West Bay handled Miss Hs claim effectively.
When Miss H provided information about the claim to her broker, it sent this information to
West Bay. Ive read the information that was sent. This says no CCTV was available. But it
does confirm that the police attended the incident.
I acknowledge what West Bay says about the statement and sketch it received from Miss H
in November 2022. I agree it shouldve been alerted to the availability of CCTV at this time.
But it shouldve been aware of the police attendance from the information the broker sent.
This was re-confirmed in Miss Hs statement.
West Bay says it shouldve made efforts to obtain the police report and CCTV at the time the
third-partys insurer disputed liability. I agree. Although it could reasonably have done so at
the time it received the first notification of loss information. The polices involvement was
clearly identified.
Its clear that West Bay informed the third-partys insurer at the outset that it considered its
driver to be at fault. Im aware that it can take time to decide liability where the opposing
parties blame each other. But we expect West Bay to handle all claims effectively to ensure
fair outcomes in a reasonable timeframe. In these circumstances I dont think West Bay
handled Miss Hs claim effectively.
I say this because video footage is important evidence when establishing blame for an
accident. In her statement to West Bay Miss H says the police attended and confirmed the
incident could be seen on the CCTV footage. The business was also made aware that the
police had attended when the claim information was originally provided. If this information
had been obtained and provided to the third-party, its likely that liability wouldve been
decided sooner. As it is Miss Hs claim has remained open since the incident occurred in
September 2022.
In these circumstances as liability has yet to be confirmed, and West Bay has incurred costs
dealing with the claim, its correct that the claim remains open. If liability is decided in Miss
Hs favour she can then ask West Bay, or her current insurer if shes no longer with West
Bay, for a premium refund. But I dont agree with our investigator that it should record the
claim as no-claims bonus allowed until liability is decided. Regardless of the delay in
obtaining relevant evidence, liability has yet to be decided, so the claim should remain open
as West Bay has confirmed.
For the impact its poor claim handling has had on Miss H I agree with our investigator that
West Bay should pay her £200 compensation. This is in addition to the £100 its already
paid.
West Bay should request the police report and see if CCTV footage is still available, albeit
this is now unlikely. If once a liability decision is reached, Miss H remains dissatisfied, she
can complain to West Bay. If West Bay doesnt resolve the matter to her satisfaction she canthen ask our service to consider her complaint.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and West Bay should:
pay Miss H £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused; and
request the police report and CCTV footage for consideration in Miss Hs claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Miss H responded to say that when she moved insurers it told her that this claim was still 
open. This impacted on the premium she had to pay. She says she also rides a motorcycle 
and is concerned this will impact this premium as well. Miss H asks how long the claim will 
remain open. 
In her response Miss H says the police joked with her about how cut and dry the situation 
was based on the CCTV footage. She says it was clear which vehicle was stationary and 
which had been moving. Miss H says she accepts my provisional findings but needs to know 
if the claim is still going to show as open.
West Bay responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. It says it has allowed Miss 
Hs no-claims bonus on a goodwill basis, but the claim remains open pending liability 
investigations that are ongoing. It says the outcome of these investigations will ultimately 
determine whether the no-claims bonus is affected. West Bay says if there is no CCTV, and 
the police report doesnt provide any useful information this is unlikely to be a non-fault 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Miss Hs further comments. As I discussed in my provisional 
decision I didnt think it was fair that West Bay hadnt tried to obtain CCTV footage or the 
police report. This is important information relating to the liability decision for her claim. I said 
that West Bay should request the CCTV and police report for consideration. I also said its 
correct that the claim remains open until a liability decision is reached. 
I note Miss Hs comments that the open claim has increased the premiums she had to pay to 
her new insurer. And will potentially increase her motorcycle insurance as well. In my 
provisional decision I said that once liability was decided Miss H can ask her insurer(s) for a 
premium refund if a non-fault decision is made. We expect West Bay to handle Miss Hs 
claim effectively, but Im not able to tell her when this will be completed. If she has concerns 
she should contact West Bay to discuss this. If she isnt satisfied with how it handles her 
claim from here she can raise a complaint. 
I note West Bays comments about the liability decision. But as this has yet to be decided I 
cant comment further here. My decision is that it should request the missing information and 
consider this within its liability decision. 
So, although I have carefully considered the further comments provided by both parties, this 
doesnt warrant a change to my findings.   My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. West Bay Insurance Plc should:
pay Miss H £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused; and
request the police report and CCTV footage for consideration in Miss Hs claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman