DRN-1789427
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2002 and again in 2003. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Briefly:
In 2002 Mr W took out PPI in connection with his mortgage. According to BoS' records, Mr
W took the policy out during a branch meeting.
The policy in question was called Total Mortgage Protection Plan ("TMPP") and it provided 
separable elements of cover - accident, sickness and unemployment cover (the traditional
PPI elements) as well as life cover and critical illness cover. Mr W took out all three elements 
of cover.
The PPI element would pay out for up to 24 months per claim and it cost around £37 a 
month. The life and critical illness elements of cover provided a lump sum benefit equal to 
the outstanding mortgage balance upon Mr W's death or upon diagnosis of a policy defined 
critical illness. These elements of cover cost around £33 a month.
About a year later, for reasons that are not clear to me, the original plan was cancelled and
Mr W took out a new plan. The amount and nature of the cover appears to have been 
broadly the same - albeit the cost was a few pounds a month higher.
At the time of the sale M W was single, he was employed, and he said he was entitled to 
sick pay of six months' full pay followed by six months' half pay. He also said he had death-
in-service benefit. He said he had at least three months' of his income held as savings he 
couldve used to make his repayments, and he was in good health at the time.
I issued my provisional decision of April 2020. I said here that I was likely to partially uphold 
Mr W's complaint and award him compensation. Both parties have seen my provisional 
decision and provided their responses to it.
In summary, neither Mr W nor BoS had anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr W's case.
Having done so, and because neither party has given me anything new to consider in response to my provisional decision, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr W's complaint. My 
reasons are set out below.
did Mr W have a choice about the cover?
did he agree to take it out?
I think it's more likely than not that BoS made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the 
policy and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember 
this.
BoS doesn't have any paperwork from the time of the sale. And this isnt perhaps surprising 
given how long-ago things happened. But it has provided example paperwork that it says Mr 
W would have seen when he took out TMPP during his meetings with BoS. This is 
paperwork that we have seen before. And looking at this I think it would've been clear to a 
customer that they didn't have to take out the policy and that they had to agree to take it out.
So in the absence of persuasive evidence that something very different happened in Mr
W's case, I think Mr W chose and agreed to take out TMPP.
PPI element of cover
the advice
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr W. This means BoS had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, he was eligible for the cover; he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover; and he seems to have had a need for it.
Mr W says he was in a position to secure his payments - he says he had good sick pay and 
some savings. But the PPI would've paid out in addition to this and for longer if necessary -
up to 24 months per claim. This would've allowed Mr W to retain his savings or delay the 
need to call on them. So given that Mr W was taking on a not insignificant amount of debt 
secured on his home - he was also solely responsible for it - I think Mr W would've found the 
policy useful to him had the insured risks become a reality.
So I think Mr W did have a need for cover and it would have helped him out at what would 
likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time - it wasn't wrong for BoS to have 
recommended PPI to him.
the information
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr W 
about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I think he likely 
chose to take it out - albeit cover that was recommended to him.
So it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And as I said above it seems like it would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Mr W off taking out the cover.
critical illness
the advice and the information
Again BoS says it recommended this element of the overall cover to Mr W. And again based 
on what Ive seen of Mr W's circumstances at the time, I think the recommendation was 
suitable. For example, he wasn't caught by the significant exclusion and limits on the cover.And I've not seen anything to indicate that Mr W held existing cover that he could've used to 
make his mortgage payments had he suffered from a critical illness. Mr W's savings might 
have given him short term relief, but these would've been quickly used up if Mr W found 
himself unable to return to work for a lengthy period.
So while Mr W was single with no dependents, given that he could've benefited from the 
cover, and because of the long term nature of the mortgage commitment, I think this part of 
the cover was suitable for him - I don't think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended it.
As I found above for the PPI element of the cover - I accept Mr W might not have got all the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed about the critical illness part of the cover. But 
for the reasons why I think it was suitable for him, I don't think better information about it 
would've put him off taking it out.
life cover
the advice
While I think the above two elements of the overall package of protection were in my view 
suitable for Mr W, I think very differently about the life cover element - I don't think the 
recommendation BoS made was suitable for him. I say this because I do not see Mr W had a 
need for cover - indeed it appears from the submissions BoS made to our office that it thinks 
the same way.
Mr W was single with no financial dependants - so there was nobody who had a financial 
interest in Mr W's life and so nobody who would've stood to financially benefit from him 
taking out life cover. Mr W says that in any event he was entitled to death-in-service benefit 
from his employer, which in my view is consistent with his occupation type and employer at 
the time. It is my view therefore that his overall circumstances at the time of the sale 
demonstrate that he had no need for life cover.
I therefore think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended this element of cover to him - it 
didn't act fairly and reasonably towards him.
Because I also see no reason why Mr W would've chosen to go ahead with the life cover 
element regardless, I think he's lost out as a result of the things BoS did wrong.
conclusion
Overall - I think the recommendation BoS made to Mr W to take out PPI and critical illness 
cover was suitable for him given his circumstances at the time and in light of the nature of 
the borrowing he was taking on. But the recommendation made to Mr W to take out life 
cover was in my view unsuitable given his circumstances at the time. And I don't think Mr W 
would've gone ahead and taken this part of the cover out had BoS properly advised and 
informed him.
This means I think Mr W has partly lost out as a result. I've therefore decided to partially 
uphold Mr W's complaint and I direct BoS to put things right.
Putting things right
BoS should put Mr W in the position hed be in now if he hadn't taken out life cover. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasn't been cancelled already, and BoS should:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the life cover elementAdd simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must give Mr
W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons above I've decided to uphold Mr W's complaint.
Bank of Scotland plc should therefore put things right by paying Mr W compensation in line 
with the formula above. I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman