DRN-3839205
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Novuna): is holding her liable for loans she says she did not consent to.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In April 2022, two Novuna loans were taken out in Mrs Ms name (for £5,000 and £8,000).  
The proceeds of the loans were credited to Mrs Ms bank account, which she then 
transferred out to third party accounts.  Mrs M raised this matter with Novuna asking it to 
write off the loans.  In summary, she told Novuna that alleged fraudsters had taken out the 
loans without her knowledge and had deceived/coerced her into transferring out the funds 
from her account.  Novuna investigated the matter and said it would be holding her liable for 
the loans.  Mrs M then raised a complaint which she also referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mrs M disagreed 
with the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
There are two main reasons why I am persuaded, on balance, that Mrs M consented to the 
loans in question being taken out in her name.
First, both Novuna loans were taken out in Mrs Ms name via Clear Score.  Mrs M says she 
did not provide anyone with her password to login to her Clear Score account.  However, I 
have not seen any satisfactory evidence to show how the alleged fraudsters were able to 
obtain Mrs Ms Clear Score password to be able to login and take out the loans.
Secondly, I have doubts about the credibility of Mrs Ms testimony.  I say this because Mrs M 
told our investigator, amongst other things, that the alleged fraudsters impersonated her 
bank, explained that money had been paid into her account by accident, and because of 
this, she needed to transfer the money (loan funds) to other accounts.  However, I have 
seen evidence from Mrs Ms bank which is at significant odds with Mrs Ms testimony to the 
investigator  particularly around the circumstances in which Mrs M says she transferred out 
money from her account.
I note Mrs M says other lenders have found in her favour regarding other loans taken out in 
her name.  However, I consider matters on a case by case basis, so I am unable to 
comment on what other lenders have decided.  I also note Mrs M says the police accept that 
she has been a victim of fraud.  Whilst this may well be the case, this does not take away 
from the fact that the key issue I am concerned with in this matter is  whether Mrs M 
consented to the Novuna loans being taken out in her name.
Taking all the above points together  I am persuaded, on balance, that Mrs M consented to 
the loans concerned being taken out in her name.  That is, she either took out the loans 
herself; or provided consent to a third party to do so on her behalf.  It follows that, to my 
mind, it is fair for Novuna to hold Mrs M liable for the loans if it wishes to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman