DRN-3454794
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc hasnt fairly dealt with her claim for 
breach of contract and misrepresentation following the supply and fitting of windows and 
doors which were financed by a fixed sum loan.    
What happened
In July 2018 Mrs H entered into a contract for the supply and fittings of a front door, bi-fold 
doors and various windows to her home. To finance this work, she entered into a fixed sum 
loan over a period of 96 months with Mitsubishi.
Mrs H says she selected a particular retailer to supply and install the doors and windows 
because unlike the other company she had obtained a quote from, it had told her that the 
items wouldnt be fitted by a subcontractor and that the company was underwritten by an 
insurance company.
Mrs H says that when the fitter arrived in September 2018, she discovered that they were in 
fact a subcontractor. Although she was unhappy about this Mrs H says she felt she had no 
choice but to allow the work to be undertaken. Mrs H says the fitter took three days to fit all 
the windows and doors although she had been told this work should take four.
Once the windows and doors had been fitted Mrs H signed a document to confirm she had 
received everything and was happy with its installation. Mitsubishi says that when it received 
confirmation about the supplying and fitting it released the funds to the company.
Mrs H says that within a short time it became clear there were a number of faults with the 
windows and doors and that they hadnt been fitted to a reasonably competent standard. 
Mrs H complained to the company that had supplied and installed the goods. 
There were a number of visits to Mrs Hs home to inspect the windows and doors which was 
then followed by various remedial work being carried out by the supplying company over the 
year. However, Mrs H was unhappy as she didnt think all the work had been successful and 
so she complained to Mitsubishi.
Further works were carried out and in November 2020 and Mrs H signed to say she was 
happy with the schedule of repair works. It was agreed the file on her complaint could be 
closed.
Mrs H received compensation payments amounting to £730 from Mitsubishi. And the 
company that had originally supplied and fitted the windows and doors also gave her some 
reimbursements.
However, Mrs H remained unhappy at the state the windows had been left in and felt it 
would be fair for additional compensation for all the stress and upset that had been caused 
to her. She complained to this service. Mrs H said she thought a payment of £5,000 
compensation would be fair in all the circumstances.
Our investigator said that under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 a consumer 
had a right to make a claim against a credit provider for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract if certain conditions were met. However, although our investigator said she 
accepted there had been false statements of fact made by the company that supplied and 
installed the windows and doors, she didnt think she could reasonably say these had 
induced Mrs H to enter into the contract.
Our investigator also said that although there had been issues with the supply and fitting of 
the items, these had been rectified. In regard to the way the windows had been left, our 
investigator said the brickwork having been left exposed around the windows had in fact 
been agreed by Mrs H as she had planned to get the property clad after the windows had 
been fitted. She also said the quote for the cladding provided by Mrs H hadnt included any 
remedial work so there wasnt any evidence that the windows werent now installed with 
reasonable care and skill. 
Mrs H had received compensation from Mitsubishi, and our investigator said that she 
thought the amount paid had been fair in the circumstances. She said she wasnt going to 
ask Mitsubishi to increase that amount. Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Hs 
complaint should be upheld.
Mrs H disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said the statements about not using 
subcontractors and the company being underwritten had been the deciding factors in 
choosing this company to supply and fit the windows and doors. She said had she been 
given the true answers she wouldnt have entered into the contract with it.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that if a consumer has 
paid for goods or services with a credit agreement, such as a fixed sum loan, and they have 
a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, they are given a like claim against the credit provider which here is Mitsubishi.
My role is to decide whether Mitsubishi has acted fairly and reasonably in its response to 
Mrs Hs claim under section 75. Ive seen that Mitsubishi closed Mrs Hs complaint once it 
had received the signed schedule of works in November 2020 which confirmed all the 
remedial work had been carried out to Mrs Hs satisfaction. It has also provided her with 
compensation of £730.
I dont think its disputed that there was a breach of contract here. Ive seen the company 
that supplied the windows and doors and arranged the fitting found that the standard of work 
hadnt been adequate. I also appreciate that it has taken around two years to resolve. 
However, I think its fair when looking at how Mitsubishi handled Mrs Hs claim that I take 
into account remedial action was taken, compensation has been paid as well as 
reimbursements for other costs incurred by Mrs H.
Ive seen Mrs H has requested that compensation of £5,000 though Im not clear how that 
figure has been reached. Mrs H had sought a payment towards the cost of cladding of her 
property due to the way her windows had been left. She has provided a number of photos 
that show how the brickwork around the windows has been left exposed and the render 
removed. However, Mitsubishi has explained the windows were left like this due to the request of Mrs H when she entered into the contract in July 2018. At that time the surveyor 
noted that the windows were not to be trimmed inside or out as Mrs H was having all the 
render removed from the property to have cladding put on, so no trims were required.
Ive seen a quote for the cladding, and as set out by our investigator, I cant see that an 
additional cost has been added for remedial works around the windows.
So, as Mrs H had made the request to leave the brickwork around the windows in the way 
set out by the surveyor and signed to say she was happy with the remedial works in 
November 2020, I cant reasonably say the windows havent now been properly fitted and 
the breach remedied.
Looking at the compensation that has been paid to Mrs H, while I dont doubt this has been a 
distressing episode and caused her inconvenience, I think the compensation paid has been 
reasonable in all the circumstances. The doors and windows have been inspected and 
repaired to her satisfaction.
Mrs H has also raised misrepresentation. For me to find that there had been a 
misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that there had been both a false statement of 
fact made and that this statement had induced Mrs H to enter into the contract. 
Ive seen that the company which supplied the windows and doors has apologised for the 
incorrect information being given to Mrs H about the use of subcontractors. So, I think it isnt 
disputed that false statements were made.
However, while I accept these statements were persuasive for Mrs H to pick that company 
over the other, I dont think I can reasonably say that had she been aware that both 
companies used sub-contractors and werent underwritten that she wouldnt have still  
selected this particular company. I dont know if Mrs H would have sought further quotes or if 
she had, whether any of those would have matched her requirements. 
So, I think its likely Mrs H would have still selected this company to supply and fit the doors 
and windows. And I cant therefore say that these statements alone induced her to enter into 
the contract. 
But even if Mrs H wouldnt have entered into the contract with this company, I still need to 
take into account that these items have now all been installed to a satisfactory standard and 
that Mrs H has received compensation from Mitsubishi and reimbursements from the 
supplier. In these circumstances the contract cant be cancelled, and the goods returned so 
the issue for me would be whether further compensation was warranted. And in these 
circumstances, I dont think it would be. I think the compensation shes already received is 
reasonable.
I appreciate that my decision is going to be of disappointment to Mrs H, but for the reasons 
set out above Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Jocelyn GriffithOmbudsman