DRN-3188376
The complaint
Mr B complains about how esure Insurance Limited has handled his motor insurance claim, 
including the quality of repairs to his car.
References to esure include its agents. 
What happened
In early 2021, Mr B was involved in an accident which resulted in damage to his car. Esure 
arranged for repairs to be carried out by its approved garage.
Mr B raised concerns with the quality of the repairs after the car was returned to him. These 
included a problem with the exhaust and an oil leak as well as issues with the body work and 
alignment. Mr B told esure he didnt want the same garage to rectify the issues, but they 
proceeded with some further repairs. Esure arranged for an independent engineer to inspect 
the rectification work. The engineer found it hadnt been carried out to an acceptable 
standard so further work was carried out. Mr B remained unhappy with the quality of repairs 
so esure agreed for the car to be taken to a garage of his choice. 
Esure said the issues with the cars exhaust and the oil leak werent part of the claim as they 
werent related to the incident or caused by the garage. It paid Mr B £250 to compensation 
for the trouble and upset hed experienced. 
Mr B remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. He said the oil 
leak wasnt present before the accident and he believed it had been caused by the garage, 
esure had sent the car to for repairs. Mr B said he thought esure should reimburse him the 
£480 hed had to pay for it to be fixed. 
Mr B says his preferred garage told him that the brake discs and pads were rusted up 
because the car had been stood still for so long. They gave him a quote for new brake discs 
and pads. He told us that esure had paid him around £1,500 towards repairs but this was 
around half of what hed been quoted, for the rectification work needed to his car. He said he 
would like esure to pay him the shortfall in the amount to complete the repairs esure had 
agreed to cover, plus £480 to cover the cost of repairing the oil leak as well as compensation 
for the rusted brakes and discs. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns. She thought it was fair for esure to have 
refused to cover the cost of repairing the oil leak because it had relied on information in the 
engineers report, which noted the oil leak wasnt caused by the accident or esures 
approved garage. She thought the £250 esure had paid Mr B was fair compensation for the 
trouble and upset hed experienced as a result of the poor repair work.
Our investigator referred to information Mr B had provided from his chosen garage showing 
the cost of remedial work to fix the damage to his car. She recommended esure pay the 
difference between that and the amount Mr B told us esure had already paid. She also 
recommended esure pay the amount Mr B had been quoted to have his brake discs 
repaired.
Mr B said he agreed with our investigators findings relating to the brake discs and the 
outstanding amount to fix the poor quality of work carried out by esures approved garage. 
He asked for an ombudsman to review his concerns regarding the oil leak which he believed 
was caused by the garage and had cost him £480 to get repaired.
Esure said it disagreed with our investigators findings and would like the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. But it hasnt explained why it disagrees.
 
As both parties have disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant industry rules require esure to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of Mr B. Im not a mechanic or an engineer but I dont 
have to be to decide this case. My role is to consider if esure has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with Mr Bs insurance policy and, if it hasnt, to tell esure what it needs to 
do to put things right.
Oil leak
Mr B believes that esures approved garage are responsible for causing damage resulting in 
oil leaking from his car. He says the garage told him they had tried to fix it and has 
questioned why they would have tried to fix a leak that was unrelated to the accident or their 
work. Mr B says there was no oil leak before or after the accident and has sent us a number 
of photographs to support his view that the damage was caused by the garage.
Esure has provided a copy of the engineers report from the inspection that took place after 
esures approved garages first attempt to rectify the initial repairs. The engineer made a 
number of recommendations for further repairs for damage relating to the accident. But he 
concluded that the oil leak wasnt related to the claim or repairs undertaken by the garage.
The report says:
A historic oil leak with evidence of oil displacement to the right hand rear suspension arm 
was detected to the timing chain adjuster sump plug. This in my opinion is a service issue 
and not related to the claim under notice. No further action required.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr B who strongly believes the oil leak was caused when 
the garage jacked up the car. But I think it was reasonable for esure to have relied on the 
information given to them by the engineer who inspected the car independently of the 
garage. 
Esure told Mr B it would be willing to review this if the findings of the garage who was to 
carry out the further repairs contradicted the engineers findings. I havent seen any evidence 
to show the repairing garage reached a different conclusion about the cause of the oil leak. 
And the photographs Mr B has sent arent enough to persuade me that the information from the engineer is unreliable. So, I dont think its fair to ask esure to reimburse Mr B for the cost 
of repairing the oil leak.
Repairs covered by the claim 
From what Ive seen and been told, esure arranged for Mr Bs car to be moved to the garage 
of his choice in May 2021. It said it would be willing to consider compensation for further 
work relating to the accident. 
Mr B has provided us with a copy of a report from his chosen garage dated July 2021 which 
itemises the costs of repairs to his vehicle. The total cost is £2,857.02. He says that when he 
sent this on to esure it wouldnt agree to pay it. It sent him a settlement cheque of £1,539.34. 
Our investigator asked esure for some further information about this payment, but esure 
hasnt commented on it. Esure also hasnt commented on our investigators recommendation 
that it pay the difference between the two amounts.
I havent seen anything to suggest the information on the repairs listed on the report arent 
related to either the accident or to fix the work carried out by esures approved repairers. 
Esure hasnt given any other reasons why it shouldnt have to pay the amount our 
investigator recommended. So, I think it would be fair for esure to pay the additional amount 
Mr B was quoted to get the car fixed, which amounts to £1,317.68.
Brakes
Mr B has sent us a copy of an email from a manufacturers dealership for his make of car 
which says:
The battery has failed and will require jump starting after a few days of being stood. The 
brakes are also severely corroded and will require replacing. We suspect that due to the 
amount of time the vehicle has stood for this is a result of the above issues
Mr B says esure reimbursed him for the cost of a new battery, but he thinks it should also 
pay for new brakes. Mr B has provided a screenshot to show the cost of replacing the 
brakes. Weve shared this information with esure and have given it the opportunity to 
comment but it hasnt done so. Nor has it commented on our investigators recommendation 
that it pay Mr B the amount showing in these screenshots so he can get the brakes replaced.
Esure has acknowledged there were issues with the initial repairs carried out by its approved 
garage and its first attempt at rectifying them also wasnt up to standard. Its unclear if it has 
accepted that its final attempt still wasnt up to standard. Although, the cheque esure sent Mr 
B suggests it has. But I think its fair to say that esure is responsible for the vehicle being left 
stationary for an extended length of time. So, based on what Ive seen I think it would be fair 
for esure to pay Mr B the £1,735.64 hes been quoted to replace the brake discs.
Putting things right
Esure should pay Mr B a total of £3,053.32 (£1,317.68 to rectify / complete the repairs plus 
£1,735.64 for the brakes).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman