DRN-3624862
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc havent been able to recover a monetary transfer 
that he sent incorrectly.
What happened
Mr A transferred £1,250 from his Santander account but used incorrect recipient account 
details which meant that the money was received by an unintended and unknown party.     
Mr A contacted Santander about this and asked them to recover the money on his behalf. 
Santander put in a request to the recipient bank to recover the money, but they initially only 
requested the recovery of £50, rather than £1,250. Santander quickly corrected their error, 
but they later confirmed to Mr A that the recipient bank hadnt been able to recover the 
money for them. Mr A wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr As complaint. They confirmed that the recovery of the incorrectly 
sent money had been undertaken on a best endeavours basis but had been unsuccessful. 
However, Santander apologised to Mr A for initially only requesting a recovery of £50, and 
they made a payment of £50 to Mr A as compensation for this point. Mr A wasnt satisfied 
with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Santander had 
acted unfairly towards Mr A in how theyd managed the situation, and they didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A doesnt dispute that he instructed the transfer of £1,250 using the wrong recipient 
account details. But he feels that Santander could have done more to recover the money for 
him following his request to them.
In circumstances such as this, where money has been transferred to an incorrect recipient 
through no fault of Santanders, theres an obligation on Santander to contact the bank into 
which the money was received and request that it be returned. 
Importantly, in these circumstances, Santander dont have the right to simply take the money 
back from the recipient bank. And one reason for this is because the money has been 
received incorrectly by the recipient bank because of a mistake on the part of the sending 
account holder, and not as the result of anything untoward or potentially fraudulent.
Because of this, the recovery of money in these circumstances is undertaken by the sending 
bank  in this case Santander  on a best endeavours basis. In short, Santander have to 
ask the recipient bank to contact the holder of the account that received the money on their 
behalf and request the return of the money to them.
Im satisfied that Santander did that here. But the recipient bank wasnt able to recover the 
money from the account holder who received the money on Santanders behalf, and this 
meant that Santanders best endeavours to recover the money for Mr A werent successful. 
And I can see that this was explained to Mr A by Santander who confirmed that there wasnt 
anything else that they could do to recover the money for him.
Additionally, while I acknowledge that Santander didnt request the recovery of the full 
£1,250 in the first instance, Im satisfied that Santanders quick correction of that error didnt 
in all likelihood impact the ability of the recipient bank to recover the £1,250 from their 
account holder. And Im also satisfied that the £50 compensation that Santander have 
already paid to Mr A represents a fair level of compensation for this point.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Santander have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr A as he contends here. And this is because Im satisfied that 
following Mr A sending the money to an incorrect recipient by mistake, Santander did 
approach the recipient bank and request the return of that money on Mr As behalf, as would 
be expected of them.
That the recipient bank couldnt recover and return the £1,250 to Santander for Mr A isnt 
something that Id consider holding Santander accountable for, for the reasons explained 
above. As such, while I do hope that Mr A is able to recover the incorrectly sent money by 
other means, it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint against Santander or 
instructing Santander to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr A was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman