DRN-2785210
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) have a 
mistake in their records that invalidated their life assurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent really in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
The mistake in L&Gs records doesnt affect the premium Mr and Mrs F paid for 
their policies over the years. 
L&G have confirmed that this means any claim Mr and Mrs F could have made 
would have been honoured under the policy. 
While Mr and Mrs F dont believe L&G on this point, I do. Ive seen nothing to say 
they wouldnt have done what they say. 
And  if L&G had tried to say the policy was invalid because of the minor error in 
the record  it would have been possible to complain to us about that. As the 
error seems unlikely to have been caused by Mr and Mrs F, and as the premium 
would have been the same without the error, I find it likely wed have told L&G to 
treat the policy as valid.
So  while I appreciate Mr and Mrs F feel strongly that their policy is completely 
invalid due to the mistake in the records  I find thats not the case. Theyve had 
the cover it provided, so there isnt a case to say Mr and Mrs F should have their 
premiums refunded. 
The steps L&G put forward for correcting the record  providing a copy of a 
driving licence or birth certificate  seems reasonable to me. The document 
would have confirmed the accurate detail so the record could be certain to be 
correct from that point on. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman