DRN-1696566
 
The complaint
Miss J has complained about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. She isnt happy about the way it dealt with a claim under her travel 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss J made a claim under her travel insurance policy after she got an ear infection on 
holiday. She had been suffering pain in her ear for a few days and saw a local doctor who 
referred her to a local hospital. But Miss J had difficulty making contact with her insurer in 
order to agree treatment and had to return to her hotel. 
When Miss J eventually made contact the next day, she had to wait a few hours getting 
transport to and from hospital where she was treated. All this caused her stress and 
inconvenience at a time when she shouldve been relaxing and enjoying her holiday.
Miss J complained to Mapfre about the way her claim was dealt with. Mapfre accepted that 
its service shouldve been better. It couldnt explain why contact couldnt be made by Miss J, 
or her mum back in the United Kingdom, when she first tried to make a claim, but it accepted 
its service wasnt good enough and offered £200 compensation. But Miss J didnt feel this 
level of compensation was sufficient so she complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He accepted that 
Mapfres service wasnt as good as it ought to have been, but he thought its offer of £200 
compensation was fair.
As Miss J didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss J, who clearly was 
inconvenienced when she shouldve been relaxing on holiday, but Ill explain why.
Although I can understand how frustrating and painful Miss J found her experience while on 
holiday, a lot of this was caused by the ear infection and the pain she was in. Miss J clearly 
tried to manage things herself when she first had a problem with her ear. And tried to gain 
help from a local doctor and from her insurer when this didnt work out. Im sure the fact that 
Miss J was in pain would have made things a lot worse for her and it mustve been 
frustrating not to be able to get through to her insurer when she needed its help.
But I have to look at all the circumstances and it is unfortunate Miss J (and her mum) faced 
difficulties in making contact with Mapfre. I know Mapfre cant explain what happened here 
and suggest high call volume had an effect, but I think a lot of the difficulties Miss J faced 
stemmed from the medical advice she gained while abroad. Mapfre has suggested that the trip to hospital may have been unnecessary. And her own General Practitioner (GP) seemed 
to confirm as much when she returned home (suggesting that just anti-biotics wouldve been 
the usual treatment). 
I can see there was a difficulty getting payment to the hospital when Miss J did attend for 
treatment. But it looks like Mapfre acted fairly quickly when it got the necessary 
documentation from the hospital, although for some reason payment was delayed. I know 
Miss J was kept at hospital for over seven hours but there was a delay getting a taxi back to 
the hotel and this was always going to be a stressful and inconvenient time. 
So, although I accept Mapfres service couldve been better I think its offer of £200 
compensation seems fair. I know Miss J would like £400 but I think Mapfres offer is 
reasonable and so Im not asking it to do anything further.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. I simply leave it 
to Miss J to decide if she wants to accept Mapfres offer now if she hasnt already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman