DRN-2542963
The complaint
Mr B complains about the deduction esure Insurance Limited made from the valuation 
placed on his car after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants the full 
valuation for the cars market value in settlement of his claim. 
What happened
Mr Bs car was stolen some five months after he bought it and whilst he was still paying off 
mechanical repairs made to it. esure made Mr B an offer in settlement of his claim which it 
said was the cars market value. Its offer was £13,784.75, less the policy excess. And esure 
also deducted 20% of this valuation because it found that the car had been a previous total 
loss. Mr B was unhappy with this deduction as he said hed carried out a check on the car 
when hed bought it, and nothing had come to light. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure had 
valued Mr Bs car correctly using the motor trade guides according to our approach. She 
thought its offer was within the range of the valuations provided by the trade guides. But she 
thought its deduction was unfair as she thought Mr B had taken reasonable care to check 
the cars history and there were no obvious signs of damage. She thought esure should pay 
Mr B the cars full valuation and £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
esure replied that any proper check would have shown that the car was a previous write off. 
It said Mr B should have made a gold check on the website he used to obtain a full history 
of the car. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B feels frustrated by esures decision not to increase its valuation. I 
can understand that he wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. I think esure offered Mr 
B a settlement for the market value of his car, as defined in the policys terms and 
conditions:
Market value - The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected
to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our
assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a
similar age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based
on research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may
not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought esures offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how she 
came to this conclusion. I can see that she checked the trade guides we use for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Bs car. 
The valuations she found were similar to those found by esure, which fell within the range 
that our investigator found. esure had offered an average of the valuations it found. So I 
think esures offer was fair and reasonable as it was made correctly according to our 
approach. 
I can see that esure found that the car had been a previous category N write off before Mr B 
had bought it. And so it deducted 20% of the valuation from the settlement. This was 
because it thought Mr B had paid less for the car because hed known it was a previous 
write-off. 
Our approach in such cases is that if a consumer has done a check and unknowingly bought 
a previously written off car, then it isn't fair that a business deducts 20% off the valuation. So 
Ive considered whether Mr B did a reasonable check on the cars history and whether he 
was likely to have known the car was a previous write-off. 
Mr B has provided a copy of the check he carried out. This is dated some six hours after he 
took out cover for the car. So it looks like this was an afterthought on Mr Bs part. But I dont 
think its relevant to esures decision as Mr B could have cancelled his cover within the 
cooling off period if hed found any concerns. As it was, the check didnt show any concerns 
and Mr B said there wasnt anything obvious to have prompted further checks. 
I can see that the car had been in a previous incident about three weeks before Mr B bought 
it. This had damaged the bodywork. But I think, on balance, it could have been repaired in 
that time and so no obvious damage would be evident to Mr B. 
I can also see that esure had some concerns about the circumstances of the purchase and 
Mr Bs checks on the cars history:
Mr B had recorded the date of purchase of the car on its V5 registration document as three 
weeks before he did the vehicle check and took out cover with esure. But Mr B has 
explained that he bought the car privately and paid for it in two instalments. The first was 
paid on the date he later recorded on the V5, and which he thought was when he had bought 
the car. 
The second instalment was paid three weeks later, and he then took ownership and 
completed the vehicle check and insured the car. esure was concerned that Mr B couldnt 
provide any receipts for these transactions. But Mr B explained that hed bought the car from 
a relative of a friend. I think these were reasonable explanations for the difference in dates 
and the lack of receipts. esure questioned the vehicle check report Mr B did on the car. It said the website Mr B used 
didnt provide accurate information as the cars previous insurer had registered the cars 
status three weeks earlier. Our approach is that the consumer should carry out a reasonable 
check on the cars history. We dont require it to obtain an official report from a specified 
company. And I think the check report was sufficiently detailed to persuade Mr B that it was 
accurate. 
It was unfortunate the report obtained by Mr B was evidently inaccurate as it wasnt up to 
date. But I havent seen that there were any warning signs, such as damage to the car, that 
should have prompted Mr B to pay for further checks. So I cant say that Mr B didnt make a 
reasonable attempt to check the cars history. 
esure was concerned that Mr B hadnt recorded the correct purchase price for the car on the 
online application and hed overstated the amount hed spent on repairing the car. But I think 
Mr B has explained that the purchase price box was filled in automatically. In any case I 
dont think this affected the valuation as it was based on the cars market value, not stated 
value. 
Mr Bs repairs had been in the region of £2,000 and hes provided invoices for these showing 
that they were for mechanical repairs, not bodywork. So I dont think this is relevant to 
esures settlement. 
And so I think Mr B unknowingly bought and insured a previously written-off car having taken 
reasonable care. In terms of reasonable care, our approach is that as a minimum the 
consumer should demonstrate that they carried out some form of check on the cars history, 
which Mr B did. 
And as I think it is likely Mr B didnt know the cars history and the repairs werent obviously 
noticeable, I think he was likely to have paid the full price for it. And so I think esure should 
pay Mr B the full market value in settlement of his claim. 
Our investigator recommended that esure should also pay Mr B £75 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this has caused him. I can see that Mr B still had to pay his 
instalments for repairs and was stressed by esures decision. So I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances.
Putting things right
I think esure Insurance Limited should pay Mr B the full market value for his car, less the 
policy excess, in settlement of his claim, and £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its unfair decision has caused him. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman