DRN-3382355
The complaint
Mr M complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) have unfairly 
cancelled his buildings insurance policy causing him inconvenience and expense. 
What happened
Mr M had various arrangements with AA including his buildings insurance policy and a 
separate contents insurance. Mr Ms house suffered damage following an escape of water in 
December 2020 and he notified AA. He says there were problems with the claim. This is 
subject to another complaint with our service, and Im not considering it here.
Mr M says that in June 2021, AA wrote cancelling his buildings insurance policy and said 
that he couldnt have any arrangements with it. He says as the letter was sent by second 
class post he had to arrange expensive alternative cover at short notice. He says when he 
called to cancel his other arrangements, hed had to pay charges to do so. Mr M says AA 
then harassed him with letters saying he owed it money on the cancelled policy. But refused 
to discuss it with him when he called about it. He also says that it continued to send him 
marketing literature despite telling him he couldnt have any arrangements with it.
Mr M advised our service about these concerns in connection with his other complaint and 
our investigator asked AA to look into them. AA issued a final response to Mr M on 8 
November 2021, which considered each of his complaint points, most of which it upheld.
AA upheld the following complaints:
It agreed it hadnt provided enough notice of the cancellation as the letter should 
have been sent by first rather than second class post
It agreed Mr M hadnt owed it money on the building insurance policy as a premium 
rebate should have been offered when the policy was cancelled. It had now 
calculated that Mr M was owed £3.94 and issued a cheque for this. It said it would 
contact credit reference agencies to correct the information on Mr Ms credit file.
It said it shouldnt have sent Mr M marketing material but had done so in error as its 
system hadnt been updated. It said it had now corrected this.
It said more should have been done to help Mr M understand what was happening 
regarding the cancellation and any outstanding payments when he had contacted the 
call center.  
It apologised for these errors and sent Mr M a cheque for £150 for the inconvenience and 
distress caused.
However, it said that:
Cancelling the policy was the correct decision as its relationship with Mr M had been 
compromised due to an allegation and a display of undesirable behaviour
It disagreed it had also told Mr M to cancel his contents policy, which it said would 
have been reviewed at renewal in September 2021
It said Mr M hadnt been overcharged for his contents cover
Mr M disagreed with the AAs response and referred his complaint to our service. He said it 
wasnt fair that his policy had been cancelled and hed incurred additional costs because of 
what had happened. He said £150 wasnt enough compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed suffered.
Our investigator looked into it, but she didnt uphold the complaint.
Our investigator said the policy terms and conditions (T&Cs) allowed the policy to be 
cancelled if there were serious grounds. And, AA felt it was right to cancel in this case as it 
felt the relationship had broken down and it had a responsibility to the wellbeing of its own 
staff. 
She said AA hadnt detailed what the issues were, but Mr M had said hed made an 
allegation of theft to the police following a visit to his home. He also said hed been sworn at 
and received threatening phone calls about the claim and that hed been asked to pay a 
bribe to process the claim. She said our service couldnt give an opinion on what happened 
as we werent present at the time. But could only weigh up the comments and statements of 
each party. This was often insufficient to conclude someone had done something wrong. 
She said AA was wrong to have not provided proper notice of cancellation, but that Mr M 
hadnt provided any evidence that hed incurred extra costs because of this. She said that 
the cancellation letter clearly referred to only the building insurance policy and didnt tell Mr 
M to cancel his other arrangements. She said the £150 paid in compensation for the errors 
AA had made was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr M said it wasnt fair that AA was allowed to cancel the policy without proof there were 
grounds to do so, but he could take no action about it because of the same lack of evidence. 
He said the AA should have proposed an alternative solution to resolve any issues.
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
AA says Mr M had made serious allegations and there had been a complete breakdown of 
relationship between the parties. 
It says sending alternative staff or contractors to see Mr M might have put them in the same 
situation which was in no ones interest including Mr Ms, describing the circumstances as:
both unpleasant for all concerned and deeply unfortunate
AA concluded the right course of action was to cancel the policy. In this case, its not 
possible to apportion blame as there isnt any evidence about what happened other than the 
disputed testimony of those involved. It isnt for me to second guess AAs judgement here. 
But as Mr M has said he doesnt feel safe with AAs employees and AA has cited concerns 
for its staffs welfare, this does sound like a complete breakdown of the relationship on both 
sides. 
I think this can be considered serious grounds and the T&Cs provide for the policy to be 
cancelled in such circumstances. So, I dont think the AA has acted unfairly in deciding to 
cancel the policy. 
However, I can consider whether the process AA followed once it did decide to cancel the 
policy was fair. And as AA accepts, it made errors here and it didnt treat Mr M fairly. He 
wasnt given proper notice. It was wrong to pursue him for premiums which werent due and 
to send him marketing literature having said it didnt want to offer him further products. AA 
has apologised for this and paid Mr M £150 compensation. I think this is fair and in line with awards our service would make in the circumstances. This 
is compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not processing the cancellation 
correctly rather than for the cancellation itself. Because I dont think AA acted unreasonably 
in cancelling the policy it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award compensation for the 
inconvenience of having to arrange an alternative. 
Mr M hasnt provided any evidence of additional costs he says were incurred through his 
policy being cancelled at short notice. Its clear that AA didnt tell him to cancel his other 
arrangement with it, only that it would be reviewed at renewal. And, it isnt unreasonable for 
AA to say it wouldnt accept any future business from Mr M, as it isnt obliged to offer 
products and services if it chooses not to.
Mr M says it is unfair that AA can take the action it has but he cant take any action in 
response even though there is no independent evidence available either way. But I think Mr 
M has already taken action in cancelling his other arrangements with AA and taking his 
business elsewhere. 
Taking everything together I dont think AA has treated Mr M unreasonably by cancelling his 
policy. It made errors in processing this but has apologised and paid Mr M fair compensation 
for the inconvenience this caused. And, whilst I know my decision will disappoint Mr M I dont 
think AA need do any more than it has.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman