DRN-2038225
The complaint
Mr S complains about Demirtas Finance Ltd, trading as IronStone Legal, and the fee theyve 
charged following a successful Packaged Bank Account claim.
What happened
On 17tMarch 2020, Mr S saw an advertisement from Demirtas on social media regarding 
making a claim for mis-sold Packaged Bank Accounts (PBA). On the same day, he 
electronically signed a letter of authority and agreement, allowing Demirtas to pursue a claim 
with Lender N on his behalf.
On 24 March, Demirtas submitted the claim to Lender N. On 6 April, Mr S e-mailed Demirtas 
to cancel the agreement. But, Demirtas responded on the same day explaining Mr S was 
now outside of the 14-day cooling off period and cancellation charges would be applied if he 
wished to continue with the cancellation. So, Mr S allowed the claim to continue.
On 29 April, Lender N uphold Mr Ss claim and provided him with a refund of £1,856.35. On 
1 May, Demirtas invoiced Mr S for their success fee of £780.00. 
Mr S was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint. Mr S said he hadnt meant to instruct 
Demirtas and believed he was only making a general enquiry at the time. And hed felt 
forced into continuing with them after hed tried to cancel which he thought was unfair. He 
explained he was unable to pay their success fee and wanted it to be waived.
Demirtas didnt agree. They thought Mr S had signed an agreement with them and 
authorised them to pursue a claim on his behalf. And as theyd been successful, they felt 
their success fee was now due. They explained Mr S had tried to cancel the agreement after 
the cooling off period, so thought theyd acted fairly when explaining hed be charged if he 
continued with the cancellation. Because of this, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
further. Mr S remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Mr S had signed 
an agreement with Demirtas. And the work theyd completed had led to a successful claim. 
So, she thought they were entitled to charge their success fee in line with the terms of the 
agreement. And she thought Demirtas had acted fairly when explaining a fee would be 
charged to cancel the agreement as Mr S contacted them outside of the 14-day cooling off 
period. So, she didnt think Demirtas needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He was unhappy Demirtass success fee was based on the pre-tax 
refund. And he explained he hadnt read the terms of the agreement, so was unaware of the 
14-day cooling off period.
Our investigator responded explain the terms and conditions made it clear the success fee 
would be based on the pre-tax amount and that this was industry standard. She also 
explained it was Mr Ss responsibility to read the terms and conditions of the agreement she 
signed. So, her view remained the same. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the concern Mr S has felt. I can understand why hed be concerned 
about receiving an invoice from Demirtas if he believed hed only submitted a general 
enquiry. And I appreciate he felt unable to leave the agreement after being told it would cost 
him money to do so. But, for me to agree that Demirtass fee should be waived, Id need to 
be satisfied Mr S didnt instruct them to pursue a claim on his behalf. Or that theyd unfairly 
prevented him from ending the agreement before a refund was received. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen Mr S signed an electronic agreement on 17 March, which authorised Demirtas to 
pursue a claim for mis-sold PBA on his behalf. Although I understand Mr S thought he was 
only submitting a general enquiry, I can see to submit this, he needed to check a box which 
confirmed hed read and agreed to the terms and conditions and letter of authority. Had Mr S 
done so, I think it wouldve been clear to him he was authorising Demirtas to pursue the 
claim. Mr S has openly admitted he didnt read these terms and conditions. But it would be 
unfair for me to hold Demirtas responsible for this. 
By checking the box and submitting the form, I think Mr S entered into an agreement with 
Demirtas that allowed them to pursue a claim on his behalf. And they submitted this claim to 
lender N on 24 March, providing Mr S with an e-mail update on the same day.
On 29 April, lender N upheld Mr Ss claim. Their final response stated, Thank you for your 
complaint which was received via your representative {Demirtas} on 25 March 2020. The 
response was also sent to Demirtas, as well as Mr S. So, this satisfied me that the 
successful claim resulted from the work Demirtas completed. And because of this, I think 
Demirtas were fair to charge Mr S for their success fee, as long as it falls in line with the 
terms and conditions of the agreement.
The terms and conditions explain we will never charge you in excess of 42%, inclusive of 
VAT, for all claims. If a lender takes off the basic rate of tax from the financial award, we will 
charge our fee based on the full amount before tax.
In this case, the refund Mr S was awarded before tax totalled £1,856.35, meaning Demirtass 
success fee of £780.00 falls in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. So, I 
think Demirtas have acted reasonably when invoicing Mr S for this amount.
Ive also considered Mr Ss complaint regarding his attempts to cancel the agreement. Ive 
seen he e-mailed Demirtas to cancel it on 6 April, which was more than 14 days after he 
initially instructed them on 17 March. So, Im satisfied his cancellation fell outside of the 14-
day cooling off period where he was able to cancel the agreement free of charge. The terms 
and conditions explain that You may cancel your instruction at any time after the cooling off 
period by contacting us verbally or in writing. However, you may have to pay a fee before 
detailing how the charges would be calculated. 
Demirtas responded to Mr Ss cancellation e-mail on 7 April, explaining that he would be 
charged a fee to cancel due to it falling outside of the 14-day cooling off period. I dont think Demirtas acted unfairly by doing this, as they were providing Mr S with the correct 
information. And I dont think the e-mail pressured Mr S to continuing with their service. The 
e-mail gave Mr S the opportunity to confirm the cancellation, where a cancellation fee 
wouldve been generated. So, I think it was Mr Ss own decision to continue with the 
agreement.
And although Mr S has explained he was unaware of the cooling off period as he didnt read 
the terms and conditions, he checked the box to say that he had. Demirtas had no way of 
knowing if Mr S had read the terms and conditions and were fair to assume he had as he 
confirmed when he checked the box. So, I think they acted reasonably when responding to 
his cancellation request.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Demirtas Finance 
Limited, trading as IronStone Legal.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman