DRN-2673453
The complaint
Ms B and Mr R complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their claim 
against their travel insurance policy. Reference to URV includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
On 18 January 2020, Ms B and Mr R took out a single trip travel insurance policy with 
URV. The policy was to cover a trip which had intended departure and return dates of   
19 April 2020 and 26 April 2020 respectively. Mr R didnt declare any medical conditions. 
Ms B declared one medical condition. URV included cover for Ms Bs condition without 
extra charge. Ms B and Mr R paid a total premium of £24.62.
On 30 January 2020, Mr R was diagnosed with prostate cancer. Ms B and Mr R 
subsequently cancelled their trip. Their travel provider refunded some of the trip costs. 
Mr R made a claim against the policy for the balance of their costs. 
URV declined the claim. It said that it only covers pre-existing medical conditions that 
have been declared and accepted, which wasnt the case here. URV said that Mr R first 
had symptoms on 9 October 2019, before Ms B and Mr R took out the policy. It said that  
the reason for cancellation of the trip is related to a pre-existing medical condition. URV 
said that although routine tests dont need to be medically screened, Mr R should have 
declared that hed been referred to a consultant for tests. 
Ms B and Mr R werent happy with URVs response and pursued their complaint. Mr R 
says that he had a routine PSA test, which are advised for all men over 50. He says that 
he didnt know that he should declare a routine test like the PSA test. Ms B and Mr R 
want URV to deal with their claim for the cancellation of their trip. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that URV acted 
fairly in declining Mr Rs claim. The investigator said that as URV declined Mr Rs claim 
because of non-disclosure of a pre-existing condition, she needed to consider whether 
URV asked Mr R a clear question which required him to disclose certain information. 
She said that as URV says that its unable to provide the questions it asked Mr R, she 
couldnt say with any certainty that Mr R should have disclosed certain information when 
he took out the policy. So, she was unable to conclude that Mr R made a 
misrepresentation.
URV didnt agree with the investigator. It said that it didnt ask Mr R further question as 
he didnt declare any medical conditions. URV said that Ms B declared a medical 
condition, so Mr R would have been given the opportunity to declare his medical 
condition. 
URV asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer 
fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - 
what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on different 
terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless. 
The first thing I need to consider is the questions URV asked Mr R when he took out 
the policy in order to determine whether Mr R took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
The investigator asked URV to provide the questions it asked Mr R. URV says that 
as Mr R didnt indicate that he had any pre-existing conditions, it didnt ask any 
further questions. The investigator asked URV to provide the initial question Mr R 
was asked about his health. URV responded to say that as Mr R bought the policy      
on-line there would have been a question about medical conditions which would have 
prompted a yes or no answer. It said that Mr R didnt declare any medical 
conditions, so he would have answered no. URV said that it couldnt provide any 
further information. 
URV cant provide the questions it asked Mr R about medical conditions at the time 
he took out the policy. The precise wording of the questions URV asked is important 
in seeking to establish whether Mr R took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out the policy. Thats why the investigator asked URV 
several times to provide the questions it asked Mr R. I appreciate that URV says that 
as Mr R answered no to whatever initial question it asked about medical conditions, 
it didnt go on to ask supplementary questions. But URV asked Mr R an initial 
question about medical conditions and it cant show this service what that was.  
Based on what Ive seen, Mr R didnt have a diagnosis of prostate cancer until 
January 2020, after he took out the policy. But I dont know whether the question 
asked at the point of purchase was clear and, therefore, whether Mr Rs answer 
meant that he didnt take reasonable care. The question asked, and any 
supplementary guidance Mr R was provided with, are important to determine this 
issue. Ive not seen evidence that Mr R was asked a clear and specific question 
about his pre-existing health conditions.
URV says that Ms B declared a medical condition, so Mr R would have had the 
opportunity to do so. I dont think Ms Bs disclosure about a medical condition alters the outcome here. It remains the case that URV cant show this service what it asked 
Mr R. 
As URV cant provide the question it asked Mr R about medical conditions, I dont 
think that I can safely conclude that Mr R made a qualifying misrepresentation. So, I 
dont think that URV acted fairly and reasonably in declining Ms B and Mr Rs claim. 
URV should deal with the claim and pay Ms B and Mr R interest on any settlement. 
Putting things right
URV should deal with Ms B and Mr Rs claim under the remaining terms of the policy. It 
should pay interest on the amount of any settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
the date they made their claim to the date it makes the payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires URV to take off tax from this interest. URV must give Ms B 
and Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms B and Mr Rs complaint. I now require                      
Union Reiseversicherung AG to take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman