DRN-3810703
The complaint
Mr F complains about American International Group UK Limited trading as AIG UKs service 
under his mobile phone insurance.
What happened
Mr F has mobile phone insurance through a bank account. The insurer is AIG. He made a 
claim on his insurance and AIG sent him a replacement phone. Mr F told AIG the 
replacement phones battery drained very quickly and he wanted another phone as he was 
about to go away.  
AIG offered to send him a replacement and pick up the faulty phone at the same time. Mr F 
said he wanted to keep the original replacement phone for a few hours so he could directly 
transfer his data to the new phone as he didnt have another way to transfer his data. AIG 
refused his request so Mr F complained.
AIG offered Mr F £35 for his inconvenience due to the replacement phones faulty battery. 
But it said its process was for the faulty and replacement phones to be exchanged at 
delivery. AIG also said it had tried to phone Mr F about his complaint while he was away and 
left him a voicemail. 
Mr F didnt have voicemail facility on his phone so he complained that AIG had given him 
wrong information. AIG agreed it had given him wrong information, it said it had tried to call 
him but wasnt able to leave a message. It apologised and offered Mr F £10 compensation 
for any confusion it had caused him.
Mr F complained to us. He wants AIG to give him time to transfer his data from his existing 
phone to the new phone when AIG sends a new one. He says AIG lied about leaving him a 
voicemail and he wants more compensation for his inconvenience in dealing with AIG about 
the matter.
Our investigator explained that we couldnt tell businesses to change their business process 
so we couldnt tell AIG it should let Mr F have both phones to transfer his data. She said 
AIGs offer of £45 compensation in total was reasonable.
Mr F said £10 compensation for AIG wrongly telling him it left a voicemail wasnt enough. 
Our investigator contacted AIG to try to reach a settlement and AIG increased its 
compensation offer for that issue to £20, so £55 in total. Mr F didnt agree and wants an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether AIG acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. I dont uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
AIG has told us that its process when delivering a replacement phone to a customer is for 
the delivery service to exchange the existing phone with the replacement phone. We dont 
have statutory power to say a business must change its business process. And swapping 
the existing phone with the replacement phone at the same time is standard practice by 
most mobile phone insurers, so I dont think AIGs process is unreasonable. 
In addition, the policy says if Mr Fs phone needs replacing You will need to hand it over 
when the replacement phone is delivered, so AIG gave clear information to Mr F about its 
process.
I think AIG reasonably required Mr F to immediately handover his existing phone when the 
replacement phone was delivered to him.
Im satisfied that AIGs offer of £35 for Mr Fs inconvenience due to the phones faulty battery 
was reasonable. It offered to replace the phone and it was Mr Fs decision not to have it 
replaced without being able to have both phones to transfer his data. AIGs letter to Mr F 
said it would pay the £35 into his bank account so if he didnt receive that payment and 
wants to accept that amount he should contact AIG direct.
Mr F was upset when AIG wrongly told him it had left him a voicemail. Ive seen no evidence 
that AIG deliberately lied to Mr F as he seems to suggest, I think AIG made a mistake. AIG 
apologised promptly to Mr F for giving that wrong information, which was reasonable action 
for it to take. If AIG hadnt offered compensation for his upset for this issue I wouldnt have 
awarded compensation as I dont think the effect of AIGs error meant compensation was 
necessary. So I think AIGs offer of £10 compensation for that issue, which it offered to Mr F 
before he complained to us, was fair as it was more than I would have awarded. 
I dont generally make compensation awards for a consumers inconvenience in making a 
complaint, and theres no reason for me to do so in this case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman