DRN-3701426
The complaint
Mr M complains that Unum Ltd has turned down two incapacity claims he made on an 
income protection insurance policy.
What happened
On 4 October 2017, Mr M took out an Executive Income Protection insurance policy 
through a broker. The policy was intended to provide cover for his own occupation as a self-
employed director. 
In December 2017, Mr M made an incapacity claim after he was diagnosed with depression 
and became unable to work. 
Unum looked into Mr Ms claim and obtained his medical records. It noted that in March 
2017, Mr M had seen a consultant psychiatrist and had been diagnosed with psychosis. But 
he hadnt declared this on the policy application form hed completed. Unum said that if it 
had been aware of this at the time the policy was sold to Mr M, it wouldve likely declined to 
offer him a policy. So it turned down the claim. But it offered to apply a retrospective 
exclusion to the policy for any incapacity arising from any mental, nervous or functional 
disorder. In April 2018, Mr M confirmed he was happy for the exclusion to be added to the 
policy and for cover to remain in place.
In December 2021, Mr M made a second claim on the policy as he was suffering from 
psychosis. Unum turned down the claim as it said it was caused by a mental disorder and 
was therefore excluded from policy cover.
Mr M was unhappy with Unums decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He felt 
that his second claim was completely separate to the 2017 claim. He didnt think hed been 
in the right frame of mind to agree to add the exclusion to his policy in April 2018 and hed 
believed he was signing up to something completely different than what it transpired hed 
agreed to. He felt Unum considered mental health conditions to be less important than 
physical ailments and he didnt think it had been reasonable to exclude all mental health 
conditions.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She set out the provisions of 
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 and how they applied 
to Mr Ms claim. She thought Unum had asked Mr M questions about his health at 
application, which he hadnt answered correctly. Based on the medical evidence Mr Ms GP 
had provided, she thought Mr M ought to have disclosed that hed suffered a period of 
psychiatric illness before taking out the policy. She was satisfied that Unum had shown that 
had Mr M told it about his previous illness, it wouldve excluded all mental health disorders 
from his particular policy. She thought this had been fair. 
And she was satisfied that Mr M had both known about and agreed to the application of the 
exclusion in April 2018. As Mr Ms claim in December 2021 had been for a mental health 
condition, she thought it had been reasonable for Unum to rely on the exclusion to turn down 
Mr Ms second claim.
Mr M disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He didnt agree that the exclusion was 
specific  he considered it was as general as it could be, given it applied to all mental health 
conditions. He didnt think the exclusion was specific to his diagnosed conditions of 
psychosis and depression. And it included conditions for which there was no physical cause. 
He didnt think it could be argued that the exclusion was specific to his situation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think Unum has treated him fairly and 
Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of this claim, to decide whether Unum 
treated him fairly.
When Mr M applied for the policy, he was asked information about himself, his details and 
details about his medical history. Unum used this information to decide whether or not to 
insure Mr M and if so, on what terms. 
Unum says that Mr M didnt correctly answer a question about his existing medical history. 
This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply 
these principles to the circumstances of Mr Ms claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to correctly answer an 
insurers questions and provides inaccurate information. First, when considering whether a 
consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider how clear and specific the 
questions asked by the insurer were.
So Ive looked carefully at the application form Mr M filled-out. I think two particular questions 
are relevant. The first of those questions asked:
In the last 3 years, have you had stress, anxiety or low mood that has persisted for more 
than 3 weeks, or for which you have sought medical advice or counselling?
Mr M answered no. The second of the questions asked:
Has a healthcare practitioner ever suggested or confirmed a diagnosis of any of the 
following, based on symptoms, signs or test results you have had
e) Depression or other psychiatric disorder?
Again, Mr M answered no to this question.
Unum says that Mr M shouldve answered yes to these questions, based on the medical 
information set out in Mr Ms GP reports. So Ive looked closely at these reports to decide 
whether I think he took reasonable care to answer the questions he was asked.Ive seen a copy of a letter, dated 21 March 2017, addressed to Mr Ms GP, from a 
consultant psychiatrist. This letter says that Mr M describes his mood as lowStates that 
his mood is about 5/10 but it has been 2/10. The psychiatrist concluded that Mr M has 
developed a psychotic illness over the past year. And as part of Mr Ms treatment plan, the 
psychiatrist said that theyd continue to offer medication, alongside other interventions such 
as talking therapies.
Mr Ms records show that he saw the consultant psychiatrist again in June and July 2017. 
His diagnosis of psychotic illness was discussed during these appointments. Its clear 
medications and interventions had been offered. The earliest of the three appointments took 
place only 10 months before Mr M filled out the application form and the last only three 
months before he did so. Its also clear that he discussed his symptoms with the psychiatrist 
during those appointments.
On the basis of the available evidence then, I dont think I could safely or fairly conclude that 
Mr M didnt know he had a psychotic illness and low mood or that therefore, he couldnt have 
declared it on the application form. And so it follows that I think, given the above, that Mr M 
shouldve told Unum about his diagnosis. I think its clear that Mr Ms diagnosis with a 
psychotic illness and symptoms of low mood did fall within the scope of Unums questions. 
And considering everything, I think those questions were clear enough that Mr M shouldve 
been prompted to tell Unum what it wanted to know. 
Overall, I think the available evidence suggests that Mr M did make a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think Unum was reasonably entitled to apply the 
relevant remedy available to it under the Act.
It seems that Unum considers Mr Ms misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate 
or reckless. I think this was a fair conclusion for Unum to reach. CIDRA says, in cases of 
careless misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldve still entered into the contract but on 
different terms, its entitled to rewrite the policy and apply those terms to the policy 
retrospectively.
In this case, the evidence shows that if Mr M had told Unum about his psychiatric illness at 
the point of application, it wouldve likely declined to offer any cover at all. However, it later 
offered to rewrite Mr Ms policy, but applying the following exclusion from the start:
No benefit shall be payable for incapacity arising from any mental, nervous or functional
disorder. (For the purpose of this cover, a disorder is defined as functional when a patient
complains of symptoms for which, despite objective medical investigation, no physical cause
may be found.
In my view, Unum acted reasonably and in line with CIDRA when it re-underwrote the policy 
on these terms. Its clear from Mr Ms claim form that he was claiming incapacity due to 
severe depressive illness and a letter from Mr Ms psychiatrist on 29 November 2017 stated 
that Mr M had been diagnosed with unspecified psychosis and a moderate depressive 
episode. I dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude that Mr Ms claim fell within the 
scope of the mental health exclusion it had applied and to conclude that his claim wasnt 
covered.
Unum wrote to Mr M on 8 February 2018. It reiterated the claims decision and stated: 
Should you wish your policy to remain in force, an exclusion will need to be applied.
We would be grateful if you could confirm whether you wish to go ahead with your policy on 
the revised terms or whether you wish to cancel the policy.On 16 April 2018, Mr M told Unum that hed discussed the matter with his broker and said:
Further to your letter stating the new exclusion for the policy, I am happy for the exclusion to 
be added to the policy and for the policy to remain in place.
A letter was sent to Mr M three days later which enclosed a copy of the exclusion and 
confirmed that cover had been reinstated with effect from 3 March 2018.
In my view, Unum made it clear to Mr M that given his circumstances, if he wanted cover to 
remain in place, he would need to agree to the exclusion being applied to his policy. I also 
think it made it very clear that his claim had been declined. Im satisfied that the exclusion is 
clearly worded and doesnt suggest that Mr M wouldnt be covered for other, non-mental, 
nervous or functional disorders. I appreciate Mr M has concerns about how the exclusion 
might apply to other illnesses in the future, but I cant comment on any hypothetical future 
claims and, in my opinion, the exclusion is clear in scope.
I appreciate that Mr M feels that the exclusion is discriminatory in nature against those with 
mental health conditions and Ive considered this carefully. But as Ive explained above, the 
law says that in the case of careless misrepresentation, an insurer is entitled to re-write the 
policy as if it had all of the information it needed to fully assess the risk of a claim. In this 
case, Unum says that had Mr M disclosed his psychiatric condition when he applied for the 
policy, its likely to have declined to offer him any cover at all. But instead, it decided to 
retrospectively apply an exclusion for mental health conditions, which I think was a fair 
response. This meant Mr M was potentially covered for a range of other, physical conditions. 
I can understand why Mr M considers that he may have been discriminated against but 
having looked at all the evidence I dont think Unum has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I 
hope that it helps Mr M to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his 
concerns on this point.
It's clear Mr M feels that this exclusion is too general in nature and that he wasnt in a 
position to agree to it. I dont find that this exclusion is general  it was applied specifically to 
Mr Ms policy after Unum learned about his earlier diagnosis of mental illness. Unum was 
entitled to apply this exclusion in line with the relevant law and also because its reasonably 
entitled to decide what things it does and doesnt want to cover. It seems to me that given Mr 
M told Unum that hed discussed the exclusion with his broker ahead of agreeing to continue 
with cover; he had had a chance to take advice on the best course of action for him. It had 
been open to him to ask Unum to cancel the policy from inception if he hadnt wanted the 
exclusion to apply. Id add too that Ive seen nothing to indicate that Unum told Mr M that the 
exclusion was short-term in nature or that it would be disregarded if Mr M made further 
claims for mental health. Instead, I think it was sufficiently clear that the exclusion would 
apply to Mr Ms policy going forwards.
By Mr Ms own account, he was diagnosed with psychosis again in October 2021 and made 
a claim for that condition in December 2021. I dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude 
that psychosis was a mental health condition which fell within the scope of the exclusion 
clause it had applied three and a half years previously. While I accept that this was a new 
episode of psychosis, the exclusion refers to any claims caused by a mental health disorder. 
It doesnt only apply to historic mental health conditions. And so I cant reasonably find that it 
was unfair for Unum to conclude that Mr Ms second claim was also specifically excluded 
from policy cover.
Id add too that the terms of Mr Ms policy clearly say that Unum will pay benefit if, before 
the expiry date, the life insured meets the definition of incapacity and suffers a loss of earnings. On the complaint form Mr M sent us, he stated that his employer had terminated 
his contract with it on 15 November 2017. This was around three weeks before Mr M made 
the first claim on his policy. As such, it seems that he didnt suffer a loss of earnings because 
of his incapacity, but because his employer had ended his employment with it. 
Mr M told us that he was employed in another role until July 2019. But he said that after that 
contract ended, he decided to take some time off work. And over the next two years, hed 
travelled between two countries. Theres no indication that following the end of his role in 
July 2019, Mr M was in paid employment nor that he was working when he was diagnosed 
with psychosis for the second time. So again, it doesnt appear that hed have been entitled 
to any benefit even if the exclusion hadnt been applied to Mr Ms policy.
There is provision in the contract for Unum to change the terms of the plan for up to 60 
months if a policyholder isnt in paid work. But this is dependent on a policyholder requesting 
such a plan change and a reassessment of the potential policy premium. Theres no 
evidence that Mr M did request such a change while he was out of work though and so I 
dont think I could fairly ask Unum to consider the claim any differently. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, as I appreciate hes been through a very 
worrying time, I think that Unum has treated him fairly and that it was reasonable for it to turn 
down Mr Ms claims. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman