DRN-4160187
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim she made 
under her home and buildings insurance policy.
Mrs Ps son is complaining on her behalf.
What happened
Mrs P discovered some of her kitchen units had sunk and obtained quotes for repairs. The
repair costs were similar to the cost of replacing the kitchen, so she opted for a replacement.
When the builder stripped out the existing kitchen, they discovered that the floor joists were
heavily decayed, rotting and this had been caused by a leak from a mains water pipe. This
was the cause of the sinking floor.
Mr P made a claim to Aviva on behalf of his mum. On the advice of a Loss Adjuster (LA)
appointed by Aviva, it declined the claim. It said the damage had been ongoing for a number
of years due to the extent of the rot and decay. So it was excluded from cover under the
policy. The LA said there would have been other indicators to alert Mrs P to the leak before
the floor sank. An example it gave was an increase in the water consumption which would
have been evidenced in Mrs Ps water bills.
Mr P challenged this comment as he said his mum didnt have a water meter - so there was
no reasonable way of her knowing anything was wrong as she wasnt aware of any change
in the consumption of water. He thought Avivas decision was unfair as he said his mum took
action when the floor sank - but couldnt have known anything was wrong before then. The
leak was well hidden and not discovered until the kitchen was stripped.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint - and so Mr P asked us to look at things.
Our Investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably and in line with the policy.
Mr P didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 April 2023 intending to uphold the complaint. I thought it 
wasnt fair to say that Mrs P ought to have reasonably known about the leak before she took 
action. So I intended to ask Aviva to meet the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions - and to pay Mrs P £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its decision not to meet the claim. 
Mrs P and Mr P said they accepted my provisional decision. Aviva didnt reply. So the case 
has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision is along the same lines as my 
provisional decision. 
Aviva has a very common term under the policy where it excludes cover for damage caused
gradually over time. Although its clear that the damage has occurred over time in this case
due to the extent of the decay and rotting of the floor joists, we also consider whether a
consumer should reasonably have been aware of the damage happening gradually. And we
consider whether - when the damage was discovered - the consumer took reasonable action
as soon as they became aware.
If we think a consumer couldnt have reasonably known that the damage was occurring, then
it follows that they were prevented from alerting the insurer or doing anything to stop the
damage getting worse. So we dont think it fair for a consumer to lose out because of the
exclusion.
From what Ive seen, Mrs P took steps to put right the damage in her kitchen when she
discovered it - the sinking in the floor which caused the kitchen units to drop.
The LA appointed by Aviva said there would have been other indicators - but apart from the
example of an increase in water consumption - it hasnt provided evidence of what other
indicators there would have been. I think Mr Ps response that his mum wouldnt have
noticed any increase in water consumption is a reasonable one.
Mrs P has held her home and buildings policy with Aviva since 2015. There isnt any
suggestion that there wasnt an escape of water from a leaking pipe. But the reason for
declining the claim is that the issue has been ongoing for a number of years and Mrs P
would have been aware of it before she made her claim, but failed to take action.
I dont think Aviva has acted reasonably in declining Mrs Ps claim. I havent seen any
evidence to persuade me that Mrs P ought to have been aware of the leak and failed to take
action before the floor sank. From the information available, I think Mrs P made reasonable
attempts to put right the issue when she discovered it. So I intend to uphold her complaint
and ask Aviva to meet the reasonable costs of the claim in line with the remaining terms and
conditions.
I think Avivas decision has no doubt caused Mrs P upset and distress. For this I think it
should pay her £250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
meet Mrs Ps claim for an escape of water in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.Pay Mrs P £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mrs P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of
8% a year.
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off It should
also give Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman