DRN-3318903
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that when he applied to open a new ISA account with Furness Building 
Society (Furness), they opened a five-year bond account instead.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr N contacted Furness and asked for an ISA application form to be sent to 
him. Mr N then went to a Furness branch to complete the form and to open the account. But 
while in branch, Mr N was asked to complete a different form and write 5-year Fixed Rate 
Bond as the type of account being applied for.
Mr N trusted the branch staff and followed their instructions, but later discovered that instead 
of opening an ISA account as hed requested, Furness had opened a 5-year bond instead. 
Mr N wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Furness looked at Mr Ns complaint. They explained that their records indicated that Mr N 
had initially asked to open a 5-year bond account rather than an ISA account, and that theyd 
acted on that request accordingly. Furness also noted that the literature that Mr N had been 
provided with also confirmed that the account was a bond account and not an ISA. However, 
as a gesture of goodwill, Furness agreed to allow Mr N to withdraw his money from the bond 
account without penalty, should he wish to do so.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with Furness response, so he referred his complaint to his service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that it should have been 
apparent at the time that Mr N was opening the account that the account type was a bond 
account and not an ISA, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events in question took place at a time in 2020 when social distancing restrictions were 
in place because of the Covid-19 pandemic that was ongoing at that time. This meant that 
when Mr N went into Furness branch he wasnt able to have a face to face meeting to talk 
him through the application form, but instead received a less thorough service from Furness 
staff members who were conscious of unnecessary social contact at that time.
This seems reasonable to me, but its understandable given these circumstances how a 
degree of confusion may have arisen here. However, it is notable that Furness record Mr N 
as having requested bond account applications forms  rather than ISA account application 
forms  when Mr N contacted them in the first instance by telephone. 
Unfortunately, theres no recording of this initial telephone call available to allow me to 
confirm what was or wasnt said on that call. But having considered all of the information and 
evidence available to me here, Im satisfied that Mr N did intend to open an ISA account, and 
also that Furness initially understood Mr Ns request to be that he wished to open a bond 
account.
Mr N has confirmed to this service that he was told by Furness staff in branch to mark the 
application form as being for a 5-year fixed rate bond, rather than being for an ISA. Mr N has 
explained that he trusted Furness staff here. But its difficult to not conclude that if Mr N had 
wanted to open an ISA, and not a bond, that he should reasonably have challenged Furness 
staff on this point at that time.
Additionally, the account literature that Mr N was provided with also referred to a bond 
account, as did the passbook, and I note from Furness records of speaking with Mr N about 
this matter that Mr N had noted that the passbook referred to a bond account and thought 
that it must be a mistake.
Mr N may counter that he made this application along with his wife, and that his wife was 
given an ISA account by Furness. But its notable that Mr Fs wife completed an ISA transfer 
request, and thus transferred funds electronically from her old ISA to the new Furness ISA 
account, whereas Mr F didnt complete an ISA transfer request but instead provided the 
funds for the new account to Furness in the form of a cheque. So it seems reasonable to me, 
especially given that Furness at that time thought that Mr N wanted to open a bond account, 
why they asked Mr N to apply for the bond account as they did.
Ultimately, while I can appreciate Mr Ns frustrations here, given that Im unable to listen to 
the initial telephone call when Mr N first requested the application form, and also that I 
wasnt present or privy to what was or wasnt said in branch, I dont feel that theres enough 
information available to me to reasonably or fairly state that Furness made a mistake here 
and opened an account of a different type to that requested by Mr N. 
Furthermore, even if I were to accept that Furness did open a bond account against Mr Ns 
instructions, I feel that there was sufficient opportunity for Mr N, both during the application 
process in branch, as well upon receiving the account literature and passbook afterwards, to 
have challenged Furness about this matter so that the issue could have been immediately 
corrected.
All of which means that I dont feel that I can reasonably conclude that Furness have acted 
unfairly towards Mr N here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Furness to take any further action at this time  beyond that to which theyve 
already agreed. I appreciate that this wont be the outcome that Mr N was wanting, but I 
hope that hell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that 
I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman