DRN-3563435
The complaint
Mr R complains that when he tried to access his TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 
(TU) credit file, he was unable to pass the security checks. He believes TU may hold 
incorrect information about him and this information possibly led to him being unable to open 
a basic bank account.
What happened
Mr R tried to open basic bank account, but this was declined. The bank advised him to check 
his credit file online with TU. When Mr R tried to do this, he found that he was unable to 
access it as he couldnt pass the verification checks. Mr R contacted TU to help with this.
TU responded saying it couldnt tell Mr R why he was failing the verification process but said 
it could provide him with a paper copy which it could send to the home address it held on file 
for him.
Mr R didnt respond to TU but brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold Mr Rs complaint, he said in summary:
TU is entitled to set its own security measures and its not for this service to tell it how to 
protect the information it holds. He didnt think TU had acted unfairly in telling Mr R it would 
send him a copy of his file by post to his home address.
Mr R didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Mr R that I wont be upholding his complaint and for broadly the 
same reason as the investigator, Ill explain.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. Mr R has sent this service a lot of 
information for me to consider during the course of his complaint. If Ive not reflected 
something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt 
deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either 
party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome 
is. 
The main issue of Mr Rs complaint is he has been unable to pass the verification checks to 
set up online access to his TU credit file. He needed this, as he wanted to see the 
information that was contained in it, to check if it was correct and to determine if it had 
affected his application for a basic account with his bank.
TU has a verification process in place to protect the information it holds about each of its 
customers. The process a business decides to put in place, around securing the information 
it holds, is its own commercial decision and its not for this service to interfere with it. My role 
here is to ensure TU has treated Mr R fairly when applying it.
The verification questions TU ask are based on the information it holds about the accounts a 
person has. Mr R didnt pass this verification check, but TU said it isnt able to tell him what 
questions he answered incorrectly, as this would be a security issue. As Mr R didnt have 
any form of photo identification that TU could use to verify him, it was unable to grant him 
online access.
TU offered to send Mr R a paper copy of his report to the home address it has on file for him. 
I think this is a reasonable solution. It will allow Mr R to check the information TU holds, so 
he can check if anything is incorrect on his file, as he suspects. It will also help him to be 
able to answer TUs verification questions in the future, as he will be able to cross reference 
the questions with the paper copy of his report to before answering them.
I have confirmed with TU the address it holds on file for Mr R is the address he has told this 
service he lives at. So, I dont think its being unreasonable saying it will only send the paper 
copy to Mr Rs home address. This is process is in place for the security of Mr Rs 
information, and so I wont be asking TU to do anything different here.
I know Mr R will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with TU can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman