DRN-4290667
The complaint
Mr K, as director of the company L, has complained that Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited (trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund transactions he says he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise, which were the result of a scam.
What happened
Mr K received a pop-up message that his security had been compromised. He called the 
listed phone number and spoke to scammers impersonating technical support. They knew 
his information and took him through a security process. They persuaded Mr K to download 
a technical support app which allowed them access to his phone, saying it was to secure his 
accounts. Using this remote access, the scammers transferred money from Ls other 
account to Ls Cashplus account, then on from the Cashplus account to themselves. The 
total transferred was £5,700.
Cashplus held L liable for the payments in dispute on the basis that they thought Mr K had 
been grossly negligent.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. Cashplus didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that these payments were unauthorised. And under the Payment Services 
Regulations, the starting position is that Cashplus are liable for payments which their 
customer did not authorise.
Cashplus can still hold L liable for these payments if Mr K (on behalf of L) failed to keep the 
account safe either intentionally or through acting with gross negligence.
I do understand where Cashplus is coming from, and I certainly agree that Mr K was 
negligent in how he handled this situation. He could and should have done things such as 
looking up the phone number provided, looking up the real phone number for technical 
support, and questioning what he was being told. In future, Mr K should not give strangers 
full access to his device without objectively checking whats really going on.
However, gross negligence is a much higher standard than normal negligence. It involves an 
actual appreciation for the risks involved and a very serious disregard to those risks.
Here, the scammers created an environment of trust with Mr K, taking measures to imitate a 
genuine support function, taking him through a fake security process, using their knowledge 
of his information to seem genuine, and asking him to download a genuine verified app that 
really is used for technical support. This was a sophisticated scam, where Mr K didnt realise 
he was putting Ls account at risk. In fact, ultimately Mr K was trying to protect the account 
from the risk of harm by doing what he did.
So while I do sympathise with Cashplus position, and while I agree that Mr K was negligent 
and should take greater care in future, I do not think Mr Ks actions quite meet the bar of 
gross negligence in this case. And given that he was trying to protect Ls account, I certainly 
dont think that he intentionally failed to keep it safe, either.
This means that under the Payment Services Regulations, the unauthorised payments must 
be refunded. Ls other bank have already refunded £2,250 due to their role in the matter, and 
of course we would not expect L to receive a refund of the same amounts twice over. So 
Cashplus need only to refund the remaining £3,450. They should also add 8% simple 
interest on this amount, to compensate L for the time its been without its money. This is the 
same rate the courts use in situations like this.
Putting things right
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus Bank) should:
refund £3,450 to L; and-
pay simple interest to L on that loss, at the rate of 8% simple a year, payable from 
the date the disputed payments were debited until the date the loss is refunded.
 If Cashplus considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct 
tax from that simple interest, they should tell L how much tax theyve taken off. It should also 
give L a tax deduction certificate if it asks for one. L may be able to reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if it doesnt normally pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ls complaint, and direct Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
If L accepts the final decision, Advanced Payment Solutions Limited must pay the redress 
within 28 days of the date our service notifies them of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman