DRN-3585439
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLCs systems were insufficiently secure and 
allowed a fraudster to access his account. He would like compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr W received a text message from Barclays advising him that the mobile 
phone number linked to his account was being changed. He had made no such request, so 
went into a Barclays branch where it quickly became clear that a fraudster had managed to 
access his account via telephone banking. However, no money was transferred out or 
otherwise lost.
Mr W says that the Barclays staff who dealt with this situation did a great job, and it would 
seem that all the necessary changes happened to resecure his account and ensure he had 
access. However, he complained about the fact that the fraudster had managed to access 
his account at all, saying that could only be the result of a data leak, or other system failure 
on Barclays part.
Barclays did not accept that there was any fault with its systems and didnt uphold his 
complaint. It also did not call him as planned to discuss his complaint, deciding that 
responding in writing was more appropriate. Mr W brought his complaint to this service, and 
the adjudicator looked at everything before deciding that there was no evidence that 
Barclays had done anything wrong. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W doesnt accept that and has asked an Ombudsman to look at his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman is to determine when a business has made a mistake that has 
caused a loss for a consumer, and direct that business to do what is necessary to put things 
right. I have no role in overseeing banking systems or judging their overall quality. In any 
event, I have found no evidence of a mistake by Barclays, so am not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays says that the fraudster had all the necessary personal information about Mr W to 
enable them to get through telephone banking security checks. And that it has no idea how 
that fraudster came to be in possession of it. Mr W says that can only have happened 
because Barclays systems kept that information insufficiently secure, and so the fraudster 
was able to get it from Barclays. I dont agree. Whilst it is of course a possibility that the 
fraudster in some way hacked Barclays systems in order to get the necessary information 
about Mr W, it could also have happened in many other ways. Mr W appears to feel that 
Barclays, in denying any mistakes on its part, has somehow accused him of failing to keep 
his information safe; perhaps of sharing it unwisely. I dont think thats the case at all, and I 
dont see that the answer must be that either Barclays or Mr W was negligent or reckless 
with his personal data. The inventiveness and entrepreneurship of those who commit 
financial fraud like this is well documented, and there are myriad ways that sensitive 
personal data can be illegally retrieved and used.
I have seen no evidence that Barclays supplied Mr Ws information to a fraudster or failed to 
have a system in place to protect his account. So whilst the event was undoubtedly very 
stressful while things were sorted out and his account resecured, nothing Ive been given 
suggests that this event was Barclays fault.
I can see that Barclays didnt call Mr W to discuss his complaint as it had said it would, and I 
can see how that would have been disappointing to him. He says he would like to have a 
proper dialogue with someone senior at Barclays about the security of his accounts... I 
would suggest he speak to a local branch about that. But it may well be that information 
about its security systems are highly confidential and not something that can be discussed in 
detail.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Barclays doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman