DRN-3442744
The complaint
Mr G and Miss G complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct (First Direct) 
removed their overdraft facility and referred the outstanding balance to debt collection 
without prior notification. They are unhappy that this will negatively impact their credit files.
What happened
Mr G and Miss G held a joint account at First Direct. Although Mr G disputes this, the 
account had no arranged overdraft limit but at times First Direct allowed the account to 
become overdrawn. 
First Direct sent a letter to Mr G on 17 March 2021 notifying him that the account had an 
overdrawn balance of £240 and asking him to bring the account into a positive balance. The 
letter also confirms an overdraft limit of £0. 
First Direct unsuccessfully tried to contact Mr G on a number occasions by phone in the 
following months but it wasnt until Mr G called it on 8 June that there was a discussion 
about the account. During the phone call Mr Gs was informed his account was overdrawn 
and that he didnt have an overdraft limit and that an overdrawn balance could affect his 
credit score. Mr G wished to have an agreed overdraft limit put on the account but was 
unable to undertake the arranged overdraft assessment without the Miss G being there. 
Following this, further unsuccessful attempts were made to contact Mr G through texts and 
phone calls. First Direct sent another letter on 23 July 2021 notifying him of the outstanding 
balance of the overlimit amount and that failure to contact First Direct would result in the 
collections process continuing which could result in receiving a default notice.
Mr G called First Direct on 10 August. During the call Mr G says he thought he had an 
overdraft with a £250 limit. First Direct confirms that the account is in an unarranged 
overdraft position and that if the balance isnt paid off and remains this way this could impact 
his credit file including the potential for a default. First Direct goes through Mr G and Miss 
Gs income and expenditure where Mr G confirms he wasnt in financial difficulty, was 
confident about his financial situation and intended to clear the overdraft before the end of 
two months.  
Mr G failed to clear the balance and on 13 September First Direct sent a pre demand letter 
requesting he repay the unarranged overdraft by 4 October. The letter confirms actions that 
First Direct may take regarding disclosure of information to the credit reference agencies 
(CRA) it subscribes to. 
Following no response First Direct issued a final demand notice on 5 October giving him until 
23 October to pay the outstanding balance and as this wasnt paid the account was closed 
and transferred to its repayment services team on 26 November.
Mr G complained to First Direct about the actions it took regarding the account without any 
notification. First Direct said all the correct procedures were followed and its position cant be 
reversed. 
Mr G and Miss G were dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and reached the conclusion that First 
Direct hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr G and Miss G disagreed and have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr G and Miss Gs 
complaint. 
The summary I have provided above is factual and I believe it to be correct and collated on 
the evidence I have reviewed including but not limited to letters, phone calls, First Directs 
internal screen shots and contact notes.
It might help by me explaining my role is to look at the problems Mr G and Miss G have 
experienced and see if First Direct has done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if 
possible - to put them back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt 
happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr G and Miss complain that First Direct removed the overdraft facility on their account and 
transferred the debt to collections without notifying them of this. They are particularly 
unhappy about how this is going to affect their credit score.  
So the question I have to ask is whether First Direct did anything wrong in closing Mr G and 
Miss Gs account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing their 
account and transferring it to repayment services when they didnt pay back the outstanding 
balance on the account in the required time.
As per the summary above from March 2021 First Direct repeatedly tried to get in contact 
with Mr G and Miss G by letters, phone calls and texts regarding the outstanding balance on 
the account and informing them what could happen if it wasnt paid. And because Mr G and 
Miss G failed to pay the outstanding balance in the required time First Direct took the 
decision to close the account, issued the required notice and transferred the debt to its 
repayment services.
Mr G says that he never received any of the letters from First Direct. But Ive seen a copy of 
all the letters and can see that they are correctly addressed and it is the same address Mr G 
has listed with us. I havent been given any reason why Mr G might not have received these 
letters, indeed most post is delivered correctly and I think it unlikely that Mr G didnt receive 
any of the letters, so I cant say First Direct did anything wrong here. 
And even if he didnt receive the letters Mr G understood there was an outstanding balance 
on the account because prior to the demand notices being issued hed had phone 
conversations with First Direct in June and August regarding this and was told the 
consequences of what would happen if no action was taken  including reporting information 
on the management of the account to the CRAs First Direct subscribes to.
So I dont think First Direct have done anything wrong or treated Mr G and Miss G unfairly. It 
informed them of the status of the account and the outstanding balance on it and gave plenty 
of notice about what was to happen if this wasnt corrected in time.I understand that Mr G is concerned about the impact of reporting the outstanding balance 
on his credit file. But First Direct has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its 
customers affairs to the CRAs it subscribes to is factually accurate. 
It might assist Mr G and Miss G to know that they can place a Notice of Correction on their 
credit record. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any 
explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration 
when making lending decisions. If they wish to do this, they should contact the CRAs 
directly.
So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mr G and Miss Gs complaint as 
I dont think First Direct has done anything wrong or treated them unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr G and Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman