DRN-3503795
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG mismanaged his property owners 
insurance claim. Ill refer to U K Insurance and their contractors as UKI.
What happened
Mr H has property owners insurance with UKI. He says he made an escape of water claim 
back in May 2021 and that there have been many delays along the way. Mr H has 
complained to UKI on three prior occasions and has had those cases decided by 
ombudsmen at our service. I also understand he has made a fifth complaint after this one.
Mr H has been awarded compensation totalling £800 in relation to his first three complaints.
This complaint concerns difficulties Mr H had in trying to have paintwork and tiling work 
completed at the property he rents out. Mr H doesnt live in the UK  where the property is 
located  so that presents some difficulties.
Mr H complains that UKI asked him to choose what paint and tiling he wanted as part of the 
repairs. Hes unhappy with that because UKI know of his situation and because of that hes 
been unable to confirm what would match the existing decoration. He told them a close 
match would be ok.
He also says UKI were provided with a set of keys which should have included a key to his 
shed, in which he said there may be spare tiles which matched the existing ones. Despite 
this, he says they told him they couldnt access the shed.
Mr H says that from the end of January 2022, he had to have several conversations over the 
phone and by email, in which UKI were either inaccurate in what they said, or they were 
unresponsive. Hes found the whole situation to be distressing and says the commencement 
of work was delayed as a result.
An investigator here looked into Mr Hs concerns. He said that UKI hadnt provided the level 
of service he would expect. He acknowledged that there is a certain amount of distress and 
inconvenience involved in every claim, but he felt UKI had added to that unnecessarily.
The investigator recommended compensation of £100, which UKI agreed to. But Mr H didnt 
think that was enough. He said that bearing in mind the previous compensation payments he 
had been awarded, this one was insufficient.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr H has made three complaints about events prior to this one I am limited in 
what I can consider. And this particular issue is narrow in scope, relating to some difficulties 
he had with UKI and their contractors.
That is not to say I cant be mindful of the overall background of Mr Hs experience, and for 
an insurance claim of this nature to take so long isnt what Id expect to see. So, I agree that 
he has suffered unnecessarily.
The issue for me to consider is that of compensation. Mr H argues that the £100 
recommended in this case is inadequate and is out of step with previous awards. Looking at 
the issues here in isolation  frustration and inconvenience caused by having to complain 
and chase things up  it could be argued that an apology would have been sufficient.
But of course, Im mindful that this is frustration and inconvenience on top of frustration and 
inconvenience. So, in this particular case I think it is appropriate for compensation to be 
awarded. From what Ive seen, Mr H had to make some phone calls and send some emails 
that he ought not have needed to have done  if UKI had managed his claim better.
Based on that, I think UKIs agreement to offer compensation of £100 is appropriate.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited trading as 
NIG to pay Mr H £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman