DRN-2970439
The complaint
 Ms P complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG) failure to tell her about 
discounts available on her home emergency policy. 
What happened
 
Ms P received her renewal notice in respect of her home emergency policy. She was 
unhappy about the level of increase and contacted BG. She told the agent that she was 
upset that the renewal notice, failed to disclose that she couldve had a discount on the price 
quoted or apply an excess to bring down the cost of the premium. 
BG said that the agent explained to Ms P that the renewal letters do state that a customer 
can contact BG to discuss options available to them. The agent then applied a discount, with 
a policy excess of £60, to Ms Ps account. Ms P wasnt happy with this outcome as she said 
that there was no such information on the letters. So, she complained to BG. 
In its final response, it said that each renewal letter was an invitation for customers to enter 
into a new annual contract. On each renewal, the proposed policy premium explained that 
there were discounts available including discounts with an excess charge. 
It maintained that for several years BG had indicated that there was an excess option and 
that customers had the right to make changes on the policy, to ensure that it remained right 
for them. So, there was nothing further BG said it could do. 
Ms P wasnt happy by this outcome and referred the it to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and ultimately didnt uphold it. 
He found that BG had acted fairly. He said that it had explained the reasons why the 
premiums had been increased year by year. He also considered whether BG ought to have 
done more in making Ms P aware of any discounts. His view was that BG had shown that 
the premiums Ms P charged were fair and consistent with other customers. He concluded 
that the information found in the renewal letters, were in line with the industry requirements. 
So, there was nothing further he could reasonably ask BG to do.
BG accepted the findings. Ms P did not. She said that the investigator hadnt understood 
what her complaint was about. She maintained that the main issue of her complaint wasnt 
about the pricing that BG charged her, but that it didnt provide any details about options or 
discounts that mightve been available to her. She felt that it was unfair, so she asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 23 July 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 22 
August 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
I have been provided with Ms Ps renewal letters from 2014 onwards. I have reviewed those 
and the policy documents and can see that Ms P had a home emergency policy with BG for 
several years. It should be noted that BG has confirmed that it only retains renewal notices 
going back six years. 
Ms Ps complaint as I understand it, is that BG didnt make it clear that she would be eligible 
for further discounts on her policy, that wouldve significantly reduced her premiums.  She 
only discovered that she was eligible for those discounts if she contacted them to discuss 
any options that mightve been available to her. Nowhere on her policy or any other 
documentation sent to her from BG was there mention of those discounts. 
The renewal letters invited Ms P to enter into a new agreement each year and included 
details about the cost of the premium, the cover she previously had, terms offered and 
marketing material. But I cant see that there was any information that indicated that Ms P 
would be eligible for further additional discounts (except a direct debit discount or energy 
supplier discount) at all.
Industry rules require insurers to give policyholders enough information to make an informed 
decision. Ms Ps position is that had she been fully informed that she could reduce the costs 
of her premiums by contacting BG during the renewal process, then she wouldve done so to 
access those discounts. But she wasnt given this information from BG and only discovered 
that she could ve had a discount when she was proactive in contacting BG during the 
renewal of her policy in 2019.
The renewal letters from 2014 to 2018 did set out the options of cover that BG had to offer. 
But none specifically provided information about discounts that were specific to Ms P. In the 
renewal letter of 2018, BG indicated that Ms P could shop around for cover elsewhere, but 
again didnt provide information about what discounts she could access. 
I asked BG when it had introduced offering policy excess discounts. Despite chasing for this
information, BG hasnt responded to my request, so Ive based my opinion on the 
information I have before me. I also asked BG why the information wasnt clearly provided to 
all customers. Again, BG didnt provide this information to me. 
I have further considered the terms and conditions of the policy, schedule and renewal 
notices and I cant see that there is any indication in those documents that additional 
discounts would be available to customers. 
Consequently, I dont think the information BG provided Ms P, made it clear she could 
potentially get a similar policy for less. There was no information that showed how any of the 
different options wouldve changed the price she paid. So, I dont think that BG provided Ms 
P with enough information for her to make an informed choice and I think it should put 
matters right. To put matters right BG ought to refund the difference between what Ms P paid for the policy 
in 2014 and what she wouldve paid for it each year after this, had the policy excess discount 
been applied to her account. I have no doubt that this wouldve been a stressful event and I 
think that BG should pay compensation of £200, for the trouble and upset it caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms P responded and said that:
Delighted that her complaint was understood.
BG made the discount information difficult to access, which was unacceptable.
BG should be telling its customers in the renewal documentation that discounts are 
available. 
BG responded and said: 
Its always offered an excess discount which customers are advised about when 
policies are first taken out.
The excess discount applied to Ms Ps premium reduced the amount. There was also 
a further policy discount applied.
It provided information from a renewal notice indicating that products are available 
with or without an excess.
I have further considered both parties responses. Ms P said that renewal letters didnt 
indicate that discounts were available. I considered renewal letters from 2014 in view of BG 
only keeping records for around seven years. BG said that renewal notices indicated that 
products were available with or without an excess.
I have looked through the renewal notices and from 2016 onwards BG mentions that 
products are available with or without an excess (prior to that there was no mention of this). 
But there is no information regarding other discounts that are also available, given that BG 
confirmed that Ms P did have an additional discount applied, as well as the policy excess. 
Nor was there any information that showed how any of the different options wouldve 
changed the price she paid. As industry rules require insurers to give policyholders enough 
information to make an informed decision, I dont think Ms P was fully informed that there 
were other discounts available to her. 
In addition, BG agreed that it would be a great idea to be far more transparent regarding the 
possible different price options at renewal:
I can confirm that I will be providing all appropriate feedback regarding the possible differing 
price options at renewal which would allow you as a customer to choose the appropriate 
level of cover, including the option of an excess which I agree would be a great idea and be 
far more transparent and in keeping with the modern working trends.
 
Putting things right
 So, taking all of this into consideration and to put matters right, BG ought to refund the 
difference between what Ms P paid for the policy in 2014 and what she wouldve paid for it 
each year after this, had the policy excess discount been applied to her account. I have no doubt that this wouldve been a stressful event and I think that BG should pay compensation 
of £200, for the trouble and upset it caused.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons given, I uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
To put matters right, British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Refund the difference between what Ms P paid for the policy in 2014 and what she wouldve 
paid for each year after this had the policy excess discount been applied to her account. 
Pay compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman