DRN-2797258
The complaint
Miss B complains Sabre Insurance Company Limited has declined her Car Insurance claim.
All references to Sabre also include their agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Miss B I have thought very carefully about everything she has said. But 
having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss B says vehicle was stolen in July 2020 around a few hours after the policy was 
taken out
Sabre said Miss B only sent one key for the vehicle to them, despite providing two 
statements confirming she was in possession of both keys
Sabre said investigations from data on the key they received, showed the vehicle had 
been last used around May 2020  but Miss B had confirmed she had last used the 
vehicle in March 2020
Sabre accepts the vehicle was stolen, but believe this happened before the policy 
started, so no insurable event has occurred. So they declined Miss Bs claim.
As there are inconsistencies between the information provided and from Sabres 
investigations, its not unreasonable for them to conclude the vehicle theft may have 
occurred before the policy was incepted.
It would be for Miss B to assist Sabre in order to prove her claim. However, taking 
everything both parties have said into account, Ive not seen anything that persuades 
me Sabre is obviously wrong. So I wont be interfering in their decision to decline 
Miss Bs claim
So for these reasons, I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman