DRN-2972626
The complaint
Mr D complains about the inability to change the username for an account he holds with 
Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL).
What happened
Mr D opened an account with IISL and was given a numerical code as the username he 
needed to log into the account. Soon after he contacted IISL asking to change his username 
but was told this wasnt possible. Mr D complained to IISL saying he was being discriminated 
against because other account holders had usernames in the format he wished to use.
IISL looked into things and said that choosing a username was not a service they offered. 
They explained they had merged with several companies over the years and that those 
account holders had kept their original usernames in the format used when their accounts 
were taken out with the previous businesses. IISL said they use numerical codes as it is a 
more secure format for usernames. 
Mr D was unhappy with this explanation saying he has concerns about lax security for the 
other accounts, which have usernames in a different format, and thought this could 
compromise IISL and his account. IISL said they couldnt comment on how previous 
businesses allowed usernames to be set up and again confirmed that changing the 
username was not something they allowed.
Remaining unhappy Mr D brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They said that whilst account holders from 
previous businesses were able to keep their username in a non-numerical format, they were 
unable to change it once their account was with IISL. Because of this they didnt think IISL 
had treated Mr D unfairly. Mr D disagreed saying that by allowing account holders to keep 
usernames in a different format to the one he had been given IISL were compromising the 
security of their business as a whole and therefore his account. 
Our investigator acknowledged Mr Ds concerns about security. They said they could only 
look into things that had happened, and whilst Mr D had concerns about security, theyd not 
seen anything about how his security had been compromised. They also explained that we 
are not the regulator and so couldnt comment on commercial business decisions such as 
the one by IISL not to allow a change of username. Mr D wasnt satisfied with the situation, 
so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear how strongly he 
feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr D that Ive read and considered everything 
hes provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised what happened which 
reflects the informal nature of our service. 
After opening the account Mr D contacted IISL as he assumed he would be able to change 
the username on his account. I can understand why Mr D might assume this was possible as 
some businesses do offer that functionality. However Ive seen no evidence IISL told Mr D it 
was possible to change his username, and theyve explained its not their policy to allow 
such changes. 
So taking everything into account I think IISL acted fairly by not allowing Mr D to change his 
username. This isnt a functionality they offer, and Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr D was 
told he was able to do this. 
Mr D is concerned about the security of his account because usernames for other account 
holders are in a different format. Mr Ds username is numerical which IISL say offers a 
higher level of security then other types of usernames. Mr D says that by allowing those 
other usernames IISL are compromising security.
Our investigator told Mr D that we can only look at things that have happened, and not things 
that might happen. And I agree this is the case. I dont want to sound dismissive of Mr Ds 
concerns about security, but Ive not seen any evidence that the security of his account, or 
that of IISL as a whole, has been compromised by allowing the use of different usernames. 
The role of this service is to look at the individual circumstances of a consumer complaint. 
As I explained above Ive looked at what happened with Mr Ds request to change his 
username and I think IISL have treated him fairly. 
We are not the regulator and its not my place to tell a business what policies and 
procedures they can use. Here IISL have decided not to allow new account holders to 
change their username. Theyve also decided to allow account holders of predecessor 
businesses to keep their existing usernames. Though its important to note IISL dont allow 
those account holders to change their username either. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied IISL treated Mr D fairly 
and reasonably, so I wont be asking them to take any further action. Looking at all the 
evidence I dont think IISL have discriminated against Mr D and nor have they treated him 
unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman