DRN-3211461
The complaint
Ms A complains that NewDay Ltd wont refund payments she didnt make from her credit 
card account.
What happened
Ms A says that she ordered an item online in June 2020. This was for a sterling equivalent 
amount of £93.28 with a £2.75 fee on her credit card. She was then contacted by the 
merchant which said it couldnt deliver it before she was due to go abroad. Ms A says that it 
agreed to make a refund. She was abroad from July 2020 until May 2021. When she 
returned she noticed that this payment hadnt been refunded. And that three further ones to 
this merchant had been debited to her account in July 2020 (£93.50 plus £2.76 fee); August 
2020 (£89.67 plus £2.65 fee); and September 2020 (£90.96 plus £2.68 fee). The amount 
had been the same each time in US dollars and then converted to sterling on her account. 
Ms A says she didnt receive any goods.
NewDay said that it couldnt dispute these payments. There was a time limit of 120 days to 
make a chargeback claim and this had passed for each of the payments. It said that the 
payments had been made under a continuous payment authority. And its only way of 
disputing them was through the chargeback scheme.
Our investigator agreed that it was now too late to raise a chargeback. The rules of the 
scheme were set by the card issuer and not NewDay. And there was no realistic prospect of 
this succeeding. He appreciated that Ms A had explained she was out of the country but that 
this didnt alter the position.
He considered based on what Ms A had said that she authorised the first payment. But Ms A 
said she didnt agree to the further payments and he thought that was consistent with her 
phone call to NewDay when she reported this. And that this should be assessed taking into 
account the Payment Services Regulations 2017. The claim had been made within 13 
months of the payments. And the issue was whether Ms A had consented to the payments 
through the continuous payment authority that NewDay said had been established.
He had looked at the merchants website. It offered single order products as well as those on 
subscription. He said he took into account guidance about continuous payment authorities 
endorsed  by the Financial Conduct Authority. This set out that a merchant needed to obtain 
positive consent for a continuous payment authority.  He wasnt persuaded that it had been 
established that the merchant had received Ms As informed and positive agreement to a 
continuous payment authority. And it wouldnt have made sense for her to arrange for 
regular deliveries when she was out of the country. So NewDay hadnt demonstrated that 
she had authorised the payments. He said that these were distance contracts. But these 
werent excepted contracts where under certain circumstances a consumer could become 
liable for unauthorised payments. 
So our investigator said that the three payments in July, August and September 2020 should 
be refunded with fees and interest, that any adverse credit information as a result of these 
payments be removed and that eight per cent interest paid on the any credit balance once 
the account had been reworked. NewDay could deduct £35 from the claim in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations if that was provided for in the terms and conditions of the 
account.
NewDay didnt agree. It said that this wasnt a fraud case and so was a merchant dispute. 
There were no other options for it to pursue. It asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that there was no possibility of a chargeback as the dispute 
about these payments wasnt raised within 120 days of any of them. Ms A says she didnt 
get a refund for the first payment. She doesnt dispute she authorised this payment even if 
she later expected a refund. But she says that she didnt agree to a continuous payment 
authority on the account. So, there are grounds in my view to consider whether she 
authorised those three further payments.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with card details. And if they werent authorised  
Ms A wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
NewDay has provided information about the further payments . And taking into account the 
monthly frequency and how these were processed I consider that a continuous payment 
authority had been used. The merchant appears to have tried to take the payment after 
September 2020, but these were declined by NewDay for other reasons. Im satisfied that 
the payments applied were authenticated. The issue is whether the nature of them was clear 
to Ms A when she made the initial purchase. 
Ive looked at the screenshots of the merchants website pages which our investigator 
shared with NewDay. There were options to make a one-off purchase or a subscription. But 
if the subscription option is chosen it doesnt clarify at checkout that this is going to be for 
more than one transaction. I appreciate NewDays difficulty in obtaining details about how 
this was presented to Ms A after the time limits for chargeback had expired. But it hasnt 
been able to show that Ms A positively agreed to the continuous payment authority. 
Payments on her credit card statement show she was abroad from July 2020. And I accept 
as Ms A says that it wouldnt have made sense for her to arrange for monthly deliveries to 
her home. While Ms A could have arranged to view her NewDay account online she had a 
direct debit established to take the required monthly repayments. Taking everything into 
account Im not satisfied on the evidence that it is most likely Ms A authorised the disputed 
payments that were applied to her account in July, August, and September 2020.
I agree with our investigators suggested resolution of the complaint noting that these werent 
excepted payments. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require NewDay Ltd to:
1) Refund the three disputed payments with associated foreign exchange fees. If 
provided for in the terms and conditions of the account NewDay may deduct a 
maximum of £35 from the claim.
2) Refund any interest or charges incurred as a result of these payments.
3) Amend any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies as a result of 
these payments
4) Rework the account and pay eight per cent per annum simple interest for any period 
from July 2020 to the date of settlement when the account would have had a credit 
balance as a result.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman