DRN-2402047
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in January 2002 
when Mr S applied for the card in one of the banks branches.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion saying, in summary, that:
Barclaycard didnt make it clear that the PPI was optional and didnt tell him the policy 
could be cancelled.
He has his PPI complaint against another bank upheld and his circumstances were the 
same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I'll explain why.
I can't be sure exactly what was discussed at the time, so I've placed more reliance on the 
paperwork that was completed. The credit card application form included a separate section 
headed Payment protection insurance. There were equally clear options to accept or 
decline the PPI. The Yes box has been ticked to show that Mr S wanted PPI. Its not clear 
whether the form was completed by him, or by the member of staff after seeking Mr Ss 
agreement. But Mr S signed the form, so he would have had the opportunity to read it 
through before signing to agree that the details were correct, and reflected what hed agreed 
during the discussion. So, overall, I find Barclaycard made Mr S aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it.
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to make sure it was suitable for him. 
Hes told us he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay from 
his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. The PPI would have paid out 
for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim in addition to his existing 
arrangements. So he would have had the peace of mind to know that his credit card 
payments were being met and any sick pay from his employer could have been used for 
other outgoings. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit for him, despite his 
existing arrangements. It also covered him if hed become unemployed.
Overall, it doesnt look as if the PPI was unsuitable for Mr S based on what Ive seen of his
circumstances at the time.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I've found that Mr S chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr S
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I 
think he would still have taken out the policy, despite what he says now.
Ive taken into consideration what Mr S has told us about another PPI complaint being 
upheld. But that does not have a bearing on my decision here. I need to decide what 
happened when this particular PPI was mis-sold, and the outcome of his other complaint 
does not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman