DRN-3682547
The complaint
Ms S complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited did not properly assess whether she could 
afford two loans before it agreed to provide them. To resolve the complaint, Ms S would like 
Oakbrook to refund the interest she has paid on both loans.  
What happened
In February 2020 Ms S took out a £3,000 loan, repayable over 30 months at just over £125 a 
month. She repaid that loan in May 2021.
In December 2021 Ms S took out a further loan, this time for £700 payable over 12 months 
at a little over £72 a month.
In June 2022 Ms S complained to Oakbrook about both loans. She said that they were 
unaffordable and that she thought Oakbrook had not carried out appropriate checks before 
agreeing to them. She explained that she was reliant on benefits as a result of illness and 
disability and was struggling to meet, for example, utility bills. 
Oakbrook said that it thought it had carried out appropriate checks before agreeing to the 
loans. In each case it had taken into account Ms Ss monthly income, housing and living 
costs, existing loan and other credit commitments, living expenses, and the monthly 
payment under the new loan. Even taking into account a monthly buffer, those assessments 
indicated that Ms S would have disposable income after payment of each of the loans. 
Oakbrook said too that it had carried out appropriate credit checks. In each case, these 
showed no arrears, payment arrangements, defaults or judgments. Ms S had used a 
relatively small proportion of the credit card facilities available to her. The loan in each case 
would represent a small percentage of Ms Ss income. 
Oakbrook provided details of some organisations that might be able to help Ms S but did not 
think it had acted in appropriately in agreeing to the loans. Ms S did not agree and referred 
the matter to this service. 
Our investigator considered what had happened. He thought that appropriate checks had 
been made in respect the first loan. In respect of the second loan, however, he noted that 
Ms Ss outgoings appeared to have fallen slightly. For that reason, he thought Oakbrook 
should have made further enquiries before agreeing to the loan. Even if it had done so, 
however, the investigator did not think it would have made any difference to Oakbrooks 
decision. It was likely that it would still have concluded that Ms S could afford the loan. 
Ms S did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. She said that Oakbrook had wrongly assessed her income, since money paid into her 
bank account included a benefit payable to her adult daughter  who does not live with Ms S 
but who needs assistance managing her finances.             
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether or not the loans were in fact affordable. Rather, 
I must consider whether Oakbrook acted appropriately in reaching its conclusions about 
whether to lend.   
Before agreeing to lend money to a consumer, a business should take steps to ensure that 
the borrower can afford to repay the money they have borrowed. And they should be able to 
do so in a sustainable way  that is, from income or savings. It is not enough that the lender 
believes they will repaid, for example by realising security for the loan; they should take 
steps to ensure that the customer can afford the payments. 
Rules and guidance about what is required are set out in the part of the regulators 
Handbook which deals with consumer credit  known as CONC. As the investigator noted, 
CONC does not set out specifically what checks are needed, but they should be appropriate 
and proportionate. What it appropriate will vary depending on factors such as the amount of 
the loan, length of term and payments required. That means, for example, that I would 
expect much more detailed checks for a 25-year mortgage of more than £100,000 than for a 
loan of a few hundred pounds over two or three years. 
In this case, Oakbrook has set out in some detail the checks it carried out. They were largely 
similar for each loan. 
Oakbrook took information about Ms Ss income from her, which it checked using her current 
account turnover from credit reference agencies. It also checked past and present credit 
history from agencies. I have seen the credit reference information registered against Ms Ss 
name and note that there does not appear to be any record of defaults, missing or late 
payments or judgments. Oakbrook says too that it used figures provided by the Office for 
National Statistics to assess Ms Ss likely outgoings. That does not seem to be 
unreasonable in this case, where the loans were relatively small and there was no particular 
reason to think that Ms Ss outgoings were likely to be unusually high. 
I note that the investigator thought Oakbrook should have carried out more detailed checks 
before agreeing to the second loan. I dont necessarily agree with that, given the monthly 
payment was rather less than had been the case for the first loan. And I note too what Ms S 
has said about the payment she was receiving on behalf of her daughter. I do not believe 
however that a closer examination of Ms Ss finances in December 2021 would have led to a 
different outcome. I think that Oakbrook would still have taken the view that the loan was 
affordable; I think too that would have been a reasonable view to take. 
I can understand that Ms S is concerned about her ability to continue to make the loan 
repayments, and she has cited a number of factors which may make it difficult for her to 
maintain them. I do not however believe that those factors indicate that the current loan 
should not have been agreed. I would however remind Oakbrook of its obligations towards 
customers who are or may be in financial difficulties and encourage it and Ms S to work 
together to find a solution, should that be necessary. I will not however make any formal 
award.         My final decision
In conclusion, I do not believe that Oakbrook Finance Limited acted unfairly in agreeing to 
the loans and I do not require it to take any further steps to resolve Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman