DRN-3802632
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint relates to a General Investment Account (GIA) he holds with 
Evelyn Partners Investment Management Services Limited trading as Bestinvest. He is 
unhappy Bestinvest took the monthly management fee from his bank account in June 2021 
and July 2022 as he didnt authorise the payments and believes they should have been 
taken from the GIA.
What happened
Mr Ds GIA is an account that was designed to handle a mixture of assets, including shares, 
and cash. Any transactions completed within the account were enacted by Mr D, including 
decisions about what cash balance to maintain, or otherwise. A monthly fee was payable for 
use of the account. This fee was, where possible, deducted from the account, but when this 
was not possible, it was taken by direct debit from a bank account nominated by Mr D. 
Mr D complained to Bestinvest following the June 2021 fee being taken from his bank 
account. Bestinvest said this had happened as there hadnt been enough cash in his GIA. 
While there were holdings in the account, they were in the form of shares and so their value 
wasnt accessible. It confirmed the terms and conditions allowed it to deduct the fee from his 
nominated bank account in this situation. Bestinvest suggested Mr D ensured there was 
sufficient cash holdings within his account to pay the fee going forward. It confirmed the 
relevant term was:
23.2 Tiered fees will first be taken from cash on each Account or, if insufficient cash is 
available, by selling units from the largest value fund holding on your Account. If we 
are unable to satisfy the payment of fees from either of these options then we will 
collect the fee by Direct Debit. Alternatively, you have the option to pay by Direct 
Debit in the first instance, please contact us to facilitate this arrangement.
In relation to the July 2022 management fee, Bestinvest confirmed that cash needed to be 
available 10 days before the fee was due to be paid in order to prevent it being collected by 
direct debit. So, while a trade had been completed and cash had been in the account a week 
before the fee was due to be paid, it had not been available at the necessary point. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he was satisfied Mr D had authorised 
payments being taken from his bank account when he had accepted the GIA terms and 
conditions and signed the direct debit mandate.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He asked why the investigator hadnt taken 
into account the fact the cash balance on the account was not shown in real time, which led 
to confusion about whether the GIA held sufficient cash funds to cover the monthly 
management fee. 
Our investigator considered what Mr D had said, but it didnt change his conclusions. He 
commented that while Mr D would like Bestinvests system to work in a certain way, that 
wasnt how it worked. This was not something we could interfere with, as how a financial 
business runs its operations was a matter for the Regulator, rather than this service. That 
said, the investigator was satisfied that although it took around 24 hours for transactions to 
show on the internet account, Mr D did have access to the information he wanted by 
telephoning Bestinvest. 
Following discussion about the workings of the GIA and Mr Ds dissatisfaction with it, he 
requested the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will firstly explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses.  In addition, 
we are also not the Regulator of financial businesses, that is the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). As such, we dont have the power to tell financial businesses what their internal 
processes should be or how they operate generally. Thats the FCAs job. We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. So while I note Mr D doesnt 
like how Bestinvests systems work in that there is a lag of around 24 hours before 
transactions show on the customer portal, this is not something we can comment on. 
Mr D has complained that Bestinvest debited the monthly account fee from his bank account 
when there were not sufficient funds in his GIA to pay it. While Mr D may not be happy about 
this, he agreed to it happening when he accepted the terms and conditions of the GIA when 
he opened the account. In addition, he completed the direct debit mandate to allow it to 
happen. As such, I cant find that Bestinvest did anything wrong in debiting the monthly fee 
from his account in July 2022 or on any other occasion when there were insufficient 
available funds in his GIA to pay it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 
3 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman