DRN-4366474
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by the estate of Mr L. The estate says National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) delayed a payment to HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC), 
resulting in additional penalty charges, and shares depreciating in value. 
The estates represented in this complaint by the executors. To avoid confusion, and for the 
purposes of anonymisation, Ill refer to them in this decision collectively.
What happened
The executors notified NatWest of Mr Ls death in early 2021 and it issued a letter of 
condolence in February 2021. The letter contained information about how NatWest could 
support, as well as the balance of Mr Ls accounts at that time. 
The executors were given access to an online portal where they were able to upload 
documents required and request transactions to be processed on Mr Ls current account. 
Mr Ls estate was valued as being subject to inheritance tax and a payment of more than 
£300,000 was due to HMRC. The executors submitted a request to NatWest to make this 
payment in August 2021. 
Due to there being insufficient funds in the account to make the payment when requested, 
NatWest was unable to send the money to HMRC. The executors realised this in January 
2022 and reinstructed NatWest to make payment. 
Payment was made later in January 2022. The executors complained after this because the 
estate had been charged interest by HMRC due to the delay in receiving the inheritance tax 
payment. 
In its final response, NatWest apologised that payment wasnt made when instructed, but did 
point out that it was the responsibility of the executors to ensure the HMRC bill was paid. It 
asked the executors to send evidence so it could consider compensating the estate. 
The executors were unhappy with this response. They explained that in addition to the fees 
and charges, theyd lost out on the opportunity to sell a portfolio of shares at a good price. 
They felt they were owed around £69,000 from NatWest to make up the shortfall in share 
value. 
After receiving evidence of the tax bill from the executors, NatWest agreed to contribute 
around £1,200 towards the additional charges. 
The complaint was handled by a number of investigators at this service. Most recently the 
investigator said, on balance, that NatWest was responsible for the payment not going 
through, as the executors said they phoned it prior to making the instruction, and it confirmed 
there were sufficient funds to cover the tax bill. However, it was for the executors to ensure 
the HMRC bill was paid and so NatWests offer towards the fees was fair. 
Our investigator also explained to the executors that, because this service couldnt award 
compensation to third parties, they couldnt ask NatWest to pay compensation for the service 
the executors had received. The executors didnt accept our investigators view of the 
complaint and asked for it to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that the executors have suffered a bereavement. I appreciate theyve had 
difficulties in their dealings with NatWest and understand the strength of feeling they have 
about this complaint. 
The executors have sent evidence in response to our investigators views and requests from 
NatWest. I assure them Ive read and considered everything both they and NatWest have 
sent when reaching my decision. Although I havent referred to all the points the executors 
raise in this decision, Ive considered them and have instead focussed on what I believe to 
be the key issues of the complaint. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take account of relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the relevant time. Having done 
so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as those reached 
by the most recent investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
As the executors are now aware, this service doesnt have the power to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to third parties. The most recent investigator 
explained thats not possible. 
This service can consider a complaint from an eligible complainant  and one that, for 
example, stems from their relationship with the business as a customer or potential 
customer. Mr L was NatWests customer in the context of this complaint. He was the eligible 
complainant for our purposes and, following his death, those rights passed to his estate. 
Although the executors represent the estate in bringing this complaint, the complaint itself 
isnt theirs. Their role is to bring the complaint on behalf of the estate, in the same way a 
person might instruct a solicitor or other representative to act for them. 
I dont have the power to look at a complaint from the executors in their personal capacity, or 
to look at how this matter has affected them personally. In saying this, I understand the 
points the executors have made regarding this. And its clear this matter has been frustrating 
for them to deal with on a personal level, but thats not something I can specifically consider. 
I can award compensation for the financial losses and/or inconvenience suffered by the 
eligible complainant. In this case, thats the estate and not its representatives. 
The executors claim the estate  as opposed to them  suffered a financial loss regarding 
the share portfolio they wanted to sell on behalf of the estate but were unable to as a result 
of the HMRC bill not being paid. 
When considering awards for losses, I can only award for actual, not prospective, losses. By 
this I mean, the portfolio hasnt been sold yet as far as Im aware. Due to the nature of share 
prices, theyre open to fluctuation, and the prices may increase again in time. Meaning that 
the estate might not end up losing out by holding on to the portfolio and selling at a later 
date. In any case, I cant reasonably conclude from the evidence that NatWest was solely 
responsible for the sale not completing. Nor am I persuaded by the evidence the executors 
have submitted on this point either. Theyve provided what appear to be typed minutes from 
a meeting where the executors made an agreement to sell the shares. Im not persuaded 
that this indicates, on balance, that the portfolio would have been sold when the executors 
now claim. 
I can see NatWest has contributed towards the additional charges and interest applied to the 
estates tax bill by HMRC. NatWest paid around £1,200. Given its likely NatWest did make 
an error at the time of instruction, but that it was ultimately for the executors on behalf of the 
estate to ensure the HMRC bill was paid, I think its contributions fair in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman