DRN-4043452
The complaint
Mr C complains about the incorrect information he was given by Barclays regarding his 
business debit card and the way that members of staff dealt with him.
What happened
Barclays said that Mr C disputed a payment on his personal account in July 2019. His card 
was cancelled, and the payment refunded. Mr C needed to access cash and it accepts he 
was wrongly told he could reset the PIN for his business debit card at a cash machine or in 
branch and use this. He was paid £50 in compensation and £10 for his call costs. It said it 
was sorry that hed felt pressurised into accepting this offer in branch and that feedback 
about this had been provided.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do anything further. He said that it had 
taken the correct action about the disputed payment. And that it was clearly frustrating for  
Mr C to be given the wrong information about his business card when he needed cash for a 
planned weekend away. He was inconvenienced by a wasted trip to a cash machine and 
was able to withdraw cash later in branch. Our investigator had seen a statement from the 
member of staff in branch. She disputed pressurising Mr C into accepting the offer or telling 
him that if he didnt then nothing would be paid. And he said shed have known that Mr C 
would receive a final response about the complaint and could take things further as he had 
here.
Mr C had also raised the manner in which a member of the complaints team had later 
spoken to him and that hed been accused of bribery. Barclays provided a recording of this 
call. Our investigator noted what had been said and the context. Mr C had been discussing 
compensation and referred to a business marketing proposal he had with Barclays and 
wanted this to be looked upon favourably. The member of staff had said that this could be 
misconstrued as a bribe but that this was probably too strong a word and that Mr C was 
almost asking for favours. He didnt think the member of staff had said that Mr C had been 
trying to defraud the bank.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He also 
asked for a copy of the recording, and which was provided to him. 
Before I made a formal assessment on the case I asked our investigator to contact Barclays 
and see whether it was prepared to pay £100 compensation for the inappropriate language 
and provide an apology with a view to an informal resolution. It agreed to do so. 
Mr C didnt accept this. He said that he didnt think that this was a satisfactory amount to 
compensate me for the repeated insult, obfuscation of issues and other breaches of fiduciary 
duty that I have suffered in my dealings with Barclays Bank over the past three yearsFrom 
my perspective, given the relative contempt that Barclays has shown and continues to show 
me, a figure closer to the maximum compensation of £375,000 seems more reasonable. He 
additionally said that he thought that the member of staff involved would be aware of the 
offence caused to him and chose to use this language anyway. This supported his view 
about how Barclays had treated him in a prejudicial way.
Our investigator clarified with Mr C that wed only be looking at complaint points that had 
been referred to Barclays and not what may have happened before and after the complaint 
in July 2019. The scope was what was dealt with in the final response of 26 July 2019. Mr C 
would need to raise any further points with Barclays first and wed not be looking at those as 
part of this complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 27 February 2023. I set out below 
what I said.
I noted that Mr C first contacted this service in August 2019, and wed then asked him to 
provide a copy of the final response letter. He got in touch with us again in August 2022 and 
we then contacted Barclays for its business file and started investigating things. I sensed 
that Mr C is aggrieved by whats happened with Barclays in the meantime, but as our 
investigators said I wont be able to look at that here.
I was considering what happened after Mr C reported a disputed payment. And how he was 
dealt with by Barclays staff. I needed to set out that we provide informal dispute resolution 
and said I was going to be considering what Mr C and Barclays have said and provided. 
Because his view on the complaint is markedly different to the current offer from Barclays I 
was issuing a provisional decision to ensure that he has a fair opportunity to comment on my 
assessment and my reasons.
The facts of what happened about the disputed payment and the incorrect information given 
to Mr C about his business debit card seem to be agreed. But I appreciated he felt 
pressurised into accepting an offer of compensation. That was disputed by the branch 
manager. I couldnt know exactly what was said to him then, but I thought it likely he was told 
that this was a realistic offer. And I noted that on 5 July 2019 a first final response about this 
complaint was issued. That stated that Mr C could ask that the complaint be reviewed again, 
or he could refer this to our service. He asked that the complaint be re-opened, and this led 
to the call on 26 July 2019. 
I said I wouldnt be going into detail about the call as Mr C has now had a copy of the 
recording. Mr C had accepted in his complaint summary that he then raised a business 
project hed been trying to pursue with Barclays and which he said would benefit the 
community. The member of staff responded that what he was saying could be misconstrued 
as almost a form of bribery and that this was a fine line. She went on to say that this was too 
strong a word but that he was asking for favours. The discussion went on to focus on the 
monetary compensation offered but no resolution was reached. And the member of staff 
endorsed the offer made and paid in branch and issued a final response letter dated 26 July 
2019.
I took the view that the specific language used during the call Id referred to above was 
inappropriate and clumsy. I could see why Mr C would take offence at any suggestion he 
was involved in bribery. And might not have then registered the way that was put across and 
then stepped back from by the member of staff. Mr C could instead have been told that the 
limit of consideration for the complaint resolution would be monetary compensation and not 
any business proposal. 
Having said that I needed to consider what a proportionate response is. I didnt think what 
was said affected the amount of compensation for the original error because I thought that was fair. And so, I considered that although I needed to mark what happened I wasnt 
persuaded that this caused any further detriment to Mr C. I also needed to say that this 
service doesnt make punitive awards. I appreciated that part of Mr Cs claim for 
compensation relates to subsequent events. But I didnt see that more than £100 for this 
specific incident together with an apology would be fair and reasonable.
I took the view that the compensation already paid for the earlier mistake and the related 
calls Mr C made about that was reasonable.
I said I could appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by what Ive said. If he doesnt agree he 
remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant timescales. And I could see hes 
referred in his comments to having contacted a legal expert already.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it had nothing further to add and accepted the provisional decision as fair.
Mr C made detailed comments which Ive considered carefully. He made reference to a 
number of other incidents and organisations which set the context for what happened here. 
For reasons of both relevance and data protection I wont be mentioning those, and the third 
parties involved. 
I note that he does wish all those involved with this complaint good health. He said he did 
believe hed provided this service with a copy of the final response letter in 2019. And he 
said he is seeking to have everything examined by legal professionals. He set out the nature 
of his trading activities and which he thought has led to his poor treatment at the hands of a 
number of organisations and individuals. He sees Barclays as a part of this. He stated:
In 2019 a manager at Barclay's accused me of trying to "bribe" that venerable financial 
institution. Fortunately the Financial Ombudsman, to whom I reported that deeply offensive 
allegation, sees it from my perspective and is assisting me in seeking a just resolution, 
including financial compensation.
He went on to say he is focussing on Barclays because he sees an infringement of his 
intellectual property rights and human rights and as this is the easiest provable example 
and shows the abuse of his trust. He said he relies on evidence including electronic and 
other correspondence and here the recording of the call with Barclays.
I appreciate that as Mr C envisages consulting legal professionals my suggested resolution 
isnt acceptable for him. He hasnt indicated what else he may want me to do in terms of 
compensation as part of his response. I have though considered all the circumstances again 
and taken account of his comments. As Ive explained Im looking at the discrete elements of 
this complaint and how it was dealt with. Having done so I remain of the opinion that the 
further compensation of £100 and apology is a fair, reasonable and proportionate resolution 
for what happened for the reasons Ive already given.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr C a 
further £100 and issue an apology to him for the language used during the call on 26 July 2019 and as it has now offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman