DRN-1649805
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs N complain about how Covea Insurance plc handled a claim made on their 
motor insurance policy. They want a refund of their premiums and policy excess. Mr N is a 
named driver on Mrs Ns policy. 
What happened
Mrs N had an accident whilst driving and she reported the circumstances to Covea. It 
instructed repairs but its repairer didnt check the cars wheels. Mr N later found that the 
wheels had buckled, and he also said the paintwork on the wheels hadnt been repaired. He 
thought Covea should have repaired these at the time. 
Coveas engineer didnt think the wheels had been damaged in the accident. But it made a 
cash offer for them as a gesture of goodwill as it thought neither side could show how the 
damage had occurred. It said the paintwork on the wheels wouldnt be covered as it was an 
undisclosed modification, and this wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr N and Mrs N were unhappy that theyd had to push Covea to deal with their claim fully. 
Covea offered them £125 compensation for how the claim was handled.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Covea had made mistakes in handling the claim and this had meant that Mr N and Mrs N 
were caused trouble and upset. He thought Covea should pay them a further £125 
compensation for this. But he thought the paintwork on the wheels wasnt covered by the 
policy. 
Covea asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mrs N was hurt in the accident. It must have been a traumatic 
experience for her. I can understand that dealing with the subsequent claim has caused 
additional trouble and stress.
I understand that with Coveas cash offer for the wheel repairs, the claim has been settled in 
full, apart from the paintwork to the wheels. 
Covea declined to cover the painted wheels as it was an undisclosed modification. I 
understand that Mr N bought the car with the wheels already painted. But this was a change 
to the manufacturers specification. And so it was a modification that should have been 
disclosed. Ive seen the Insurance Schedule and no modifications were disclosed when the 
policy was taken out. So I cant say that its unfair or unreasonable for Covea to decline 
cover for this.
Mrs N was unhappy with how Covea handled her claim. Like the investigator, Ive looked at 
the claim journey, Coveas level of service in handling the claim and the impact this had on 
Mr N and Mrs N. 
Mrs N told Covea that her car had spun around before ending up in a ditch. I think Mrs N 
provided Covea with sufficient detail about the accident for it to carry out the necessary 
inspection to determine the damage to her car. But this information wasnt passed to the 
approved repairer. And so the wheel balances werent checked. 
The damage to the wheels came to light eight months later during a tyre change. Coveas 
engineer later said that he didnt think it was necessary for the repairer to check the wheel 
balance during the repairs. And he thought they could have been damaged since the 
accident. But, like Covea, I think its too late to determine this due to the passage of time. 
Covea said it should have had the repairer inspect the car, but it didnt do this.
Covea later gave Mr N and Mrs N a cash settlement for the repair of the wheels as a gesture 
of goodwill. I think that was fair and reasonable as it couldnt then say whether the wheels 
had been damaged in the accident or not. 
But I think that if they had been checked by the repairer then they could have been repaired 
as part of the claim. So I think Mr N and Mrs N had to argue their case, and provide an 
estimate for the repairs, when this shouldnt have been necessary. And it took two months 
from Mr N raising his concerns with Covea for this point to be reached. 
Looking at Coveas file, I can see that Mr N and Mrs N had to argue their case. They had to 
provide reports when Covea could have arranged for the car to be inspected. Mrs N was 
nervous about driving following the accident. And I can see that she felt that the car was 
unsafe with the damage to the tyres. So I think Coveas delay in dealing with the further 
repairs caused her additional avoidable stress.
Putting things right
Covea has paid Mrs N £125 compensation for the claim journey and for not inspecting the 
car when further issues were raised. But I dont think this compensates Mrs N for the impact 
the handling of the claim had on her. 
I think Covea should compensate Mrs N further for the avoidable stress and trouble this has 
caused her. Our investigator recommended a further £125, and I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with the level Id award in similar circumstances.
I understand that Mrs N and Mr N wanted a refund of their premium and policy excess. But I 
dont think that would be fair or reasonable as theyve had use of the policy and the policy 
excess is always the first part of a claim required to be paid.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Covea Insurance plc to pay Mrs N £125 further compensation (£250 in total) for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman