DRN-2423305
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, complains about the handling of its commercial mortgage 
by Newcastle Building Society (NBS).
Mr W and Mr H, directors of H, bring the complaint on H's behalf.
What happened
H had a number of loans with NBS, secured on various properties. The main loan was for 
ten years, expiring in March 2016. I refer to these loans collectively as the loan.
In 2012, NBS changed its lending strategy, choosing to withdraw from the financing of 
property development. This meant that when Hs loan expired, it would either have to be 
repaid or refinanced.
In 2014, H sold part of its estate. H agreed with NBS that it would use most of the proceeds 
to reduce the capital on its loan but retain some for the refurbishment of another property in 
its portfolio.
The dispute between H and NBS relates principally to this other property, which I shall call P. 
H needed to sell P to repay the loan in full. 
In 2015, H sought planning permission to split P into a restaurant downstairs and residential 
units upstairs. This process took some time.
In March 2016, NBS agreed to extend Hs loan to 31 May, with terms and conditions 
unchanged. At this time, H was seeking to refinance the loan if it could not sell P.
In May 2016, NBS agreed to extend Hs loan to 31 December, but at a higher interest rate, 
rising from 1.25% above base rate to 4.25% above base rate. It also charged H a £7,500 
arrangement fee.
In June 2016, H abandoned its planning application. It then put P on the market, seeking to 
sell it as one property.
In November 2016, H received an acceptable offer for P, but the sale process moved slowly.
In January 2017, with the sale process still ongoing, Hs loan was now in default. Initially, 
NBS applied a default interest rate but it later decided to remove this, backdated to 
31 December. However, NBS issued a deadline for repayment of 28 February.
In April 2017, the proposed buyer for P withdrew. At this point, Hs sales agent proposed an 
alternative strategy, which was to split the title and dispose of the property as ten individual 
units. H raised the proposal in a conversation with NBS.
In May 2017, Hs sales agent demonstrated that there was strong interest for the smaller 
individual units and quickly lined up several keen buyers. H pressed NBS for its consent. H 
sought a quick response as half the property was now vacant and the reduced rental income 
was causing Hs debts to accumulate. It was also nervous of losing potential buyers. 
However, NBS was nervous that a complete sale of the property would not be achieved. It 
consulted an independent valuer, which advised to continue seeking a sale of P as one 
property.
Also in May 2017, H asked NBS to reduce the margin on its loan from 4.25% to 2.25%. NBS 
refused but did extend the loan further to 30 September, and agreed that interest could be 
rolled up. However, it also stipulated that, if repayment was not made by 30 September, it 
would charge an exit fee of £50,000.
The events in the period April to October 2017 are central to the dispute. H says that NBS 
deliberately prevaricated over approving the revised sales strategy, suspecting that NBS 
was seeking to maximise its return both from the higher interest rate and the exit fee. NBS 
says that it did not wish to sanction a strategy which could have left P part sold, with a large 
portion of the debt remaining outstanding.
Later in May 2017, Hs sales agent demonstrated to both H and NBS that there were buyers 
lined up to purchase all ten units. However, NBS was still not persuaded. It required that P 
continue to be marketed as a single property for a further three weeks. Ultimately, this did 
not generate any interest.
In June 2017, NBS finally agreed to Hs proposal to split the title and dispose of P in ten 
units. Hs sales agent confirmed it still had firm offers on all ten units. However, NBS 
required that its solicitors review the documentation prepared by Hs solicitors.
In the period June to October 2017, there was extensive communication between H, NBS, 
the sales agent and the two firms of solicitors. H says that, on many occasions and in 
various ways, NBS caused delays to the sales process. On 10 October, the sale of eight 
units completed, and on 17 October, the remaining two units were sold, with the combined 
proceeds used to repay the loan.
In the midst of this process, in September 2017, H lodged a complaint against NBS saying 
that it had repeatedly obstructed Hs attempts to sell P, delaying the process and causing 
significant additional cost. It also said that, during the period of its loan extension, NBSs 
interest rate and other fees levied had been unreasonably high. NBS said that it had 
exercised extensive forbearance towards H, both in extending the loan several times and, 
throughout 2017, in not charging the default interest to which it was entitled  which, if 
charged, would have amounted to £29,000.
In October 2017, NBS agreed to waive the £50,000 exit fee as a goodwill gesture. Also at 
this time, Hs complaint was put on hold.
In April 2019, H lodged a full complaint with NBS. It set out the circumstances of its 
interactions with NBS (summarised above) and said that from the point of NBSs strategic 
decision to exit lending to commercial property, NBS had applied a consistently 
unreasonable approach. H said that, among other things: NBS had pushed H to sell its 
properties; it had required numerous unnecessary valuations; it had down-valued properties, 
possibly to cause breaches of covenants; it had applied excessive interest rates and 
penalties; it had delayed approving the revised sales strategy for P, with no commercial 
validity; and its excessive pressure and undue influence on H had caused Hs directors 
untold stress and anguish.
NBS considered Hs complaint but did not uphold any part of it. It said that its decision to 
withdraw from the commercial property market did not affect existing loan agreements  though it had informed H in 2012 that NBS would not be a source of future funding beyond 
the existing loan term. It also said that valuers have a duty of independence and that it 
applied no pressure whatsoever to undervalue Hs properties. 
NBS said that it had shown H extensive forbearance from March 2016 onwards when the 
original loan expired. It could have started recovery action at that point but continued 
supporting the business for a period of over 18 months, despite H repeatedly failing to meet 
its repayment obligations. NBS highlighted that it could have applied default interest from 
December 2016 onwards, but waived doing so; it could have required interest as well as 
capital repayment but, given Hs limited cashflow, agreed to roll up the interest charges; and 
it waived the £50,000 exit fee to which it was entitled in September 2017.
NBS also said that, when it received the proposal to split P, it considered the option carefully 
and took professional advice. In light of this advice, it decided that the lower-risk strategy, 
seeking a sale of the whole property, should be pursued for a while longer. NBS noted that it 
still provided consent to the revised sales strategy on 21 June 2017, just a few weeks later.
As H did not accept this response, it brought its complaint to us.
Our investigator considered Hs complaint and found that NBS had done nothing wrong. He 
said that NBS had shown forbearance to H in various ways over an extended period, 
including in not applying default interest rates and waiving a large contractual exit fee. He 
also said that hed found no evidence in the correspondence from NBS, or in its actions, 
which indicated that it had sought to undervalue Ps properties or bully H into selling its 
properties. He considered the circumstances surrounding the sale of P but said that, while 
NBSs decision to take and follow independent advice on the appropriate sales strategy had 
caused some delay, this wasnt unreasonable. He also saw nothing in NBSs actions through 
the ensuing sales process which indicated an undue attempt to delay the sale of the 
property.
H did not agree with our investigators view. It said that NBSs actions in summer 2017 had 
deliberately frustrated the sale of P. It highlighted that the second agent it was required to 
bring in at NBSs request had no knowledge of the local property market and introduced no 
potential buyers. Given the property had been marketed unsuccessfully as a single property 
by an agent with extensive local knowledge since July 2016, there was ample evidence that 
a change in strategy was needed. H said that its sales agent and solicitors shared its shock 
and bewilderment at NBSs refusal to allow the unit sales to proceed, and subsequently at 
the delays caused by NBSs solicitors.
As H did not agree with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
H has asked me to focus on the period between April and October 2017 and, in particular, 
NBSs actions in blocking the sale of P in multiple units. 
It is clear that NBS initially declined to consent to the revised sales strategy, and that, if an 
effective sale of all ten units had been achieved earlier, H would have saved some additional 
cost  including in lost rental income, interest charges, and fees to a second sales agent. 
However, the question is whether NBS acted unfairly or unreasonably to cause these 
additional costs.I can see that H, and its sales agent, pressed NBS extensively in May and June for consent. 
On 18 May, Hs sales agent confirmed offers for all ten properties. I can therefore appreciate 
that, from Hs perspective, NBSs refusal to consent appeared incomprehensible. H had tried 
various strategies to develop or sell P, which had been unsuccessful, and it now risked 
losing credible buyers for all ten units. Meanwhile, the loan continued to escalate, with 
interest being rolled up, and a potential £50,000 fee loomed if it failed to repay the loan by 
the end of September. 
However, from the banks perspective, it had persisted with H for over a year since it failed to 
repay or refinance its loan. It had chosen not to recover its funds but was awaiting a sale of 
P. When a revised sales strategy was proposed, it clearly had some attractions but it was 
not without risk, as if some units did not sell some element of Hs loan would remain 
outstanding. I therefore believe it was reasonable for NBS to seek a second opinion, and it 
turned to one of its panel valuers. It was also reasonable for NBS to act on the advice it 
received, which led it to require H to continue marketing P as a single property for a while 
longer. 
I can see in the correspondence between H and NBS that, as the revised strategy was being 
considered, there were some periods when NBS was difficult to reach, but these were all 
relatively short. Its also clear that NBSs process to gain a second opinion and continue with 
the marketing of P as a single property took some time. However, I have not seen anything 
to suggest that H deliberately prevaricated to delay granting its consent to the revised sales 
strategy. Rather, it appears to me that all its actions are consistent with it seeking to ensure 
the return of its funds as fully and as swiftly as possible.
It is easy to say with hindsight that NBSs decision to continue with marketing P as a single 
property was wrong, causing unnecessary delay. But, given the risks to NBSs position from 
a break up of P into smaller units, I do not believe it was an unreasonable decision at the 
time. Moreover, the speed with which Hs sales agent had managed to attract offers for all 
ten units would have given NBS confidence that this option would remain if the continued 
attempt to sell the property as a single unit was unsuccessful. When NBS did give its 
consent to sell the units individually on 21 June 2017, this was less than two months after 
the proposal was first raised, which, in the context of a sales process which had started in 
July 2016, does not seem an unduly long delay.
H has also complained about the delays in the sales process between June and October 
caused by NBSs solicitor. For example, it took two weeks just to get a fee quote from them. 
However, I have seen nothing to indicate that any of these delays were instigated by NBS or 
were the result of its instruction. Although frustrating, there is no indication that NBS should 
be held responsible for these delays.
Overall, I have considerable sympathy for H through this period in which it sought to sell P, 
maximise its return, and settle its loan with NBS. Over a couple of years, its attempts to 
achieve this did not run smoothly. And in the period from April to October 2017, NBSs 
actions did cause some delay. However, I believe NBSs actions were reasonable in the 
circumstances and it acted fairly towards H even if not always in agreement with it. 
Therefore, I will not be asking NBS to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H and H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman