DRN-2595763
The complaint
Mr A complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) repaired his car after 
he made a claim on his motor insurance policy, rather than declaring it a total loss. Hes also 
unhappy with the quality of repairs provided. 
  
What happened
Mr As car was damaged in a motor accident that wasnt his fault. AA assessed that it was 
repairable. But Mr A thought the car should be written off and he wanted AA to pay him its 
market value instead of repairing it. 
Mr A was unhappy with the quality of the repairs carried out on his car. He didnt feel it had 
been returned to him in its pre-accident condition. He had to take several hours off work to 
return the car on two occasions to have outstanding issues looked at. 
Mr A complained to AA. They explained that the car had been deemed repairable by their 
engineer. They said theyd used Glasss Guides valuation at the time of the incident, which 
valued the car at £15,130. They said that the final repair cost was £9,894.30 including VAT.
They said theyd get a salvage value £4,085 for the car. So they wouldve been able to 
support repair costs of up to £11,044 including VAT (the difference between the market 
value and the salvage value). Given these valuations, they felt that itd been reasonable to 
authorise the repairs.
Regarding the quality of the repairs, AA said that theyd told Mr A that if he was unhappy an 
inspection would need to be carried out by an independent engineer. Unhappy with the 
response, Mr A brought his complaint to this service.
On 2 September 2020 Mr A sold the car for £10,283.02.
In his first view, our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He 
hadnt seen reports from the second and third repairs, so he couldnt tell whether or not the 
cost of later  and any outstanding - repairs wouldve pushed the cost of the claim past the 
£11,044 threshold AA had given themselves. But he felt that the later repairs probably had 
pushed the cost of the claim over the limits. So he felt AA should pay Mr A the difference, 
plus interest, between writing the car off at £15,130, less the £4,085 they wouldve got from 
salvage and the £10,283.02 Mr A sold the car for. This amounted to £761.98. 
AA didnt agree. They confirmed that the rectification work hadnt cost anything. So the total 
repair cost remained at £9,894.30 including VAT. And they felt their decision not to write off 
the car had been fair.
Mr A felt that if hed kept the car, further repair costs wouldve arisen as a direct result of the 
accident. He also asked for compensation for the time hed had to take off work to sort out 
the additional repairs.   
In his second view, our investigator recommended that AA should pay Mr A £100 
compensation for the inconvenience of having to return the car for further repair work. But, 
as AA had confirmed thered been no further repair costs, he didnt think AA had done 
anything wrong when they decided to repair the car, rather than write it off. So he didnt think 
AA should pay the £761.98 hed recommended in his first view. AA agreed to pay the £100 
compensation.
Mr A didnt agree. So his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The decision to repair the car
When Mr A brought his complaint to this service he felt that insurers, in general, will opt to 
write cars off rather than repair them if the cost of repairs is greater than 60% of the value of 
the car. Its certainly the case that if an insurer considers it to be uneconomical to repair a 
car then it will often write the car off. And some insurers will likely decide that its 
uneconomical to repair a car if the repairs cost more than a certain percentage of the 
vehicles value. 
But how an individual insurer decides how to deal with a claim should depend on the policy 
terms. And, in this case, Mr As policy says:
What is covered
SUBSECTION 1
The Insured Car
The Insurer will pay for loss of or damage to the Insured Car its accessories (excluding 
audio, satellite navigation and communication equipment) and spare parts kept in or on the 
Insured Car or in Your private garage by (at the Insurers discretion): 
repairing
or 
replacing
or 
paying in cash the amount of the loss or the damage.
The maximum amount payable will be the Market Value of the Insured Car.
The policy terms allow AA to decide whether to repair or replace the vehicle up to its market 
value. So Ive considered if their decision to repair was fair and reasonable. 
Looking at the valuation AA used in their decision, Ive used the recognised motor vehicle 
guides to check the valuation of Mr As car. These guides are based on extensive research 
of likely nationwide selling prices and we consider them more accurate than individual 
adverts.
These guides arent an exact science. Its usual for there to be some variations in valuations, 
if the valuations are carried out at different times. And this is just because the data in relation 
to selling prices is being constantly updated. Nonetheless, the three guides used by our 
investigator in his view give an average valuation of £13,951. So although its higher than my 
average valuation, I cant say that AAs valuation of £15,130 is unreasonable.  
The policy terms allow AA to decide whether to repair or replace or cash settle. The repair 
cost and the vehicle value arent mentioned in the policy terms. But they are considered in 
AAs decision-making process. Im satisfied that the cost of the repairs (£9,894.30) was less than the reasonable valuation of the car. So Im satisfied that AA acted in line with their 
policy terms, and fairly and reasonably, when they decided to repair the car. 
I consider that AAs decision would still have been fair if the eventual repair costs had 
exceeded their initial £11,044 threshold. This is because when an insurer decides to repair a 
vehicle in good faith, based on its estimates of repair cost versus market value, the money it 
spends on repairs cant be returned. So if additional repairs are needed that it didnt consider 
when making its decision, its unlikely to change its mind and write off the vehicle unless it 
would make economic sense to do so at that point.
The quality of the repairs
The policy also says: 
Guaranteed Repairs
You will receive a 3 year guarantee on all repairs, subject to the repair being carried out by 
an insurer-approved repairer.
So Mr A is entitled to quality repairs lasting three years under the terms of his policy.
Mr A was unhappy with the quality of repairs to his car. He returned his car to the garage on 
two occasions to have issues with his car fixed after the initial repair.
After road-testing the car, the garage felt that the issues Mr A continued to have with his 
steering were because his car had mis-matched tyres. Mr A disagreed with this, as he said 
hed had no issues like this before the accident. He said he returned the car to the garage as 
he didnt feel safe in it as it pulled violently to one side when he braked. Unfortunately, we 
cant get an independent assessment of the remaining issues in the car as Mr A has sold it.
I can imagine how the continuing problems he had with the car after the accident wouldve 
put Mr A off the car. And I can see why he wanted to sell it, given the issues he was having. 
AA shouldve fixed any outstanding issues relating to the accident, ideally in one go. Its 
clear that it caused Mr A inconvenience having to return the car twice for the remaining 
issues to be looked into. But I cant ask AA to compensate him for loss of earnings, as they 
didnt require him to return the car during his working hours. But I can and will ask AA to pay 
him compensation for the inconvenience they caused him.
Given Mr A sold the car, Im not persuaded that he gave AA the chance to put things right 
with the repairs. Under the terms of his policy, Mr A was entitled to expect quality repairs. 
Ive seen no evidence that AA wouldnt have honoured the policy terms if Mr A had 
continued to question the quality of the repairs. So I cant ask AA to do any more. 
I know that this outcome will disappoint Mr A, but I could only ask AA to uphold his complaint 
about their initial decision to repair the car if I thought theyd done something wrong. And Im 
satisfied that they didnt. But I do consider that AA caused Mr A inconvenience when the 
repairs werent carried out to a satisfactory standard at the first opportunity. 
  
Putting things right
For this reason, I require them to pay him £100 for the inconvenience of having to return his 
car to the garage.  
My final decision
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr A £100 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused by having to return his car to the garage on two occasions. AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell them Mr A accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman