DRN-3884926
The complaint
Mr E complains about the quality of a vehicle that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (Blue).
What happened
On 23 May 2022 Mr E took out a hire purchase agreement with Blue for a used vehicle. This 
vehicle was just over eight and a half years old, with a cash price of £11,995. The terms of 
the agreement required Mr E to pay 61 monthly instalments of approximately £260. 
Mr E said hed seen the vehicle advertised online. The descriptions in the advert included:
Sunroof, 
Excellent condition for its age and mileage, hard to find a better example, very very light
use,
If items such as the tyres and wishbones are under 30% life we will replace for new.
Excellent bodywork,
Tyre condition excellent.
If items such as the tyres are under 30% life we will replace with new.
Mr E said he collected the vehicle four or five days later and discovered it wasnt as 
described in the advert. He says he called Blue as soon as they opened on the next working 
day, telling them he wanted to reject it.
On 31 May 2022 Mr E raised a formal complaint with Blue, again saying he wanted to reject 
the vehicle. He told them there was a squeak from the nearside front tyre, a squeaky clutch, 
the boot was leaking, the paintwork was scratched, and the gearbox felt loose.
At Blues request, Mr E booked the vehicle in for a diagnostic inspection to confirm what 
faults were present. After receiving the diagnostic report, Blue issued Mr E with their final 
response. They said theyd dismissed the cosmetic issues because these would have been 
visible at the point of sale. They agreed that the diagnostic report showed there was an issue 
with the tyre and a window switch that needed replacing. But they said there was no 
evidence to suggest there were any mechanical issues, so there were no grounds for Mr E 
to reject the vehicle.
Unhappy with this response, Mr E brought his complaint to us. He said hed thought he had 
a 14-day cooling-off period, but when hed spoken to Blue about this, hed got the impression 
he couldnt back out of the agreement because theyd already paid for the vehicle before he 
collected it.
Mr E told us that hed discovered more faults with the vehicle after hed first complained to 
Blue. He said it didnt have a sunroof, and three of the tyres were near the legal limit. He 
said hed had to pay to have two corroded valves replaced for safety reasons, because they 
were stuck in place with the tyres under-inflated. He said the boot leaked and wouldnt close 
or lock in place. Mr E provided photos, showing damage to the bodywork that he hadnt seen 
in the photos in the advert.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think the vehicle had 
been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr E due to the faults with the boot and 
passenger window. She thought Blue should arrange for these faults to be repaired. She 
also thought Blue should either arrange for the tyres to be replaced - or reimburse Mr E for 
this if hed already paid for it to be done.
Mr E remained unhappy. He said hed tried to return the vehicle by getting in touch with Blue 
the next working day after collecting it  and that hed been in touch with them every few 
days since, trying to resolve things. He told us that hed provided Blue with everything theyd 
requested from him, despite working very long hours and struggling with his mental health.
Mr E said that, for the last six months, hed been paying for a vehicle that he hadnt been 
able to use in the way it was intended. He said he doesnt have the facility of a boot because 
it wont lock and everything gets wet when it rains - and that the window controls dont work. 
He said over time hed found more issues with the vehicle that hadnt been obvious straight 
away, such as a leak coming either from the drivers door or windscreen when it rains. He 
said hed only done between 1,000-1,500 miles in the vehicle due to the issues with it, 
instead of the 5,000 miles he would normally have covered in that time.
Mr E said hed been caused a lot of stress whilst trying to get the problems sorted and would 
now be left with a vehicle he couldnt enjoy. He felt he wouldnt be able to sell or change it 
because it wasnt worth the amount Blue were expecting him to pay for it. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review things again.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Es complaint is about a vehicle supplied under a hire purchase agreement, so this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Under this type of agreement, Blue is also the 
supplier of the vehicle and is therefore responsible for a complaint about its quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says 
every contract to supply goods is treated as having an implied term that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory. It explains that the quality of goods includes their state and condition. It 
says things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a vehicle, the 
relevant circumstances a court would also take into account might include things like its age, 
mileage, and history.I take into account that this vehicle cost £11,995 - and that it was described as being in 
excellent condition for its age and mileage, having had very very light use. When thinking 
about this description, I think its also relevant to bear in mind the age and mileage. This 
vehicle was just over eight and a half years old. Having checked the MOT records, Ive seen 
that the mileage was recorded to have been 99,033 when the vehicle was tested on 27 May 
2022. This was four days after Mr E signed the agreement, so Im satisfied that this was 
likely to have been the approximate mileage when the vehicle was supplied. 
Having thought about all of this, I dont think a buyer would expect this vehicle to be in 
perfect condition. I think theyd probably expect some parts to have suffered a bit of wear 
and tear. But I think theyd expect it to be free from anything other than minor faults - and to 
be able to drive the vehicle for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
Were there faults with the vehicle?
Ive seen evidence about a range of issues with the vehicle. Ive started by reviewing the 
evidence about each individual issue, before moving on to consider whether  overall  I 
think the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr E. 
(i) Boot lid, side window and tyres
I remind myself that the advert stated: 
Excellent condition for its age and mileage, hard to find a better example, very very 
light use,
 Tyre condition excellent 
If items such as the tyres are under 30% life we will replace with new.
Mr E says hes unable to use the boot because it wont lock, and everything gets wet 
when it rains. He says the window controls dont work. Hes told us that he had to 
replace two of the valves so he could inflate the tyres to the correct pressure, and that 
three of the tyres were close to the legal limit. 
Ive seen a copy of the diagnostic report Mr E obtained, dated 16 June 2022, which 
confirms these faults. It says:
Boot lid does not lock in the close position on left side bracket either bent or needs 
adjustment 
Passenger window in op from drivers switch, goes down but not up needs new 
switch
Rear dust caps sized onto valves, needs new valves.
The report records the remaining tread depth on each tyre. I note that both rear tyres 
had only 2mm (2%) tread remaining, and that the offside front tyre had only 3mm (22%) 
tread remaining.  
Bearing in mind the price Mr E paid for this vehicle and the descriptions given in the 
advert, I consider these to be significant issues. I think Mr E was reasonably entitled to 
expect to be able to open and close the window, to close and lock the boot so that it was 
secure and reasonably watertight, and that he wouldnt have to replace the tyres for a 
while. 
(ii) Bodywork
Blue have provided a copy of their records. These records show the condition of the 
bodywork was one of the first things Mr E complained about, within a few days of collecting the vehicle. In response, Blue said theyd dismissed the cosmetic issues as 
these would have been visible at the point of sale. 
I dont think that approach was quite right. I think the condition of the bodywork should 
form part of the overall assessment of whether the vehicle was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. Ill explain why. 
Ive already explained that the CRA says quality might include the state, condition, 
appearance, or finish of the goods. It does set out some specific examples of things that 
wouldnt make the quality of goods unsatisfactory, including:
where the consumer examined the goods before the contract was made, things that 
examination ought to have revealed, or
things that were specifically drawn to the consumers attention before the contract 
was made.
The evidence Ive seen shows Mr E entered into this agreement online. Im satisfied that 
there was no obligation on Mr E to examine the vehicle or to check that it was of 
satisfactory quality before he signed the agreement. Hes told us that he didnt see the 
vehicle until he collected it, around four days later. I dont consider it relevant that Mr E 
could examine the condition of the bodywork at that stage, because by then he was 
already bound by the agreement. 
Ive also considered whether any defects were brought to Mr Es attention before the 
contract was made. 
Ive seen a copy of the advert, which Ive carefully reviewed. It stated that the vehicle 
had excellent bodywork. The photos showed the front and nearside of the vehicle. I 
could clearly see a dent to the rear corner of the cab, which hadnt damaged the 
paintwork. I could also see some scuffs or scratches to the nearside corner of the front 
bumper, which I consider to be relatively minor. I could see no sign of any other 
damage, so I think it was reasonable for Mr E to expect the rest of the bodywork to be in 
excellent condition. 
Mr E has shown us photos of the vehicles bodywork, which I understand to have been 
taken during the first week of September 2022. These photos show a number of chips 
and scratches to the paintwork on the cab, rear left panel, rear right panel, and the boot 
area. Some of these photos show a ruler positioned next to the area of damage. Ive 
seen that some of the damage had caused the paint to be removed down to bare metal, 
several of the scratches were more than 40mm in length, and some exceeded 150mm 
in length. I think these photos show significant chips and scratches to the bodywork. 
Ive seen no supporting evidence to confirm whether all the damage shown in Mr Es 
photos was present when the vehicle was supplied to him. But considering the number 
of different areas of the vehicle that are damaged and how quickly Mr E complained to 
Blue about this, on balance, I consider it most likely that it was. 
Bearing in mind the descriptions given in the advert, I think Mr E was reasonably entitled 
to expect the bodywork to have been in better condition than this.
(iii) Sunroof
Having examined the photos shown in the advert, Im satisfied that they didnt show 
whether the vehicle had a sunroof, as promised in the description. Mr E says he was 
disappointed to discover it doesnt have one. I havent seen any supporting evidence to confirm whether the vehicle has a sunroof or 
not. I dont find it necessary for me to decide this point, because it doesnt affect what I 
think is the right outcome in this case.
Was the vehicle of satisfactory quality when it was supplied?
Im satisfied that there were significant issues with the boot, window, tyres, and bodywork. 
Having thought about all these issues, I dont consider the vehicle to be of satisfactory 
quality. 
Bearing in mind how quickly these problems came to light after Mr E got the vehicle, Im 
satisfied that they were present when it was supplied. It follows that I dont consider the 
vehicle to have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Putting things right
The Act sets out the remedies available to a consumer whose right to receive goods of 
satisfactory quality hasnt been met. It says the consumer has the right to reject the goods, 
provided they do so within 30 days. Blue have provided a copy of their records of Mr Es 
complaint, which confirm hed told them he wanted to reject the car within the first 14 days. 
Im satisfied that he had the right to do so.
So, to put things right, I think Mr E should be allowed to reject the vehicle. That would mean 
the agreement would come to an end with nothing further for Mr E to pay.
Mr E told us that he hasnt been able to make full use of the vehicle since he got it, due to 
the issues hes had with it. I think it would be fair for Blue to refund 15% of the monthly 
payments Mr E has made, to reflect the fact that he hasnt had full use of all the vehicles 
features during this time.  
Mr E told us that he had to pay for two valves to be replaced so he could inflate the tyres to 
the correct pressure - and that he needed to replace the tyres that were in poor condition. I 
think it would be fair for Blue to reimburse Mr E for the cost of replacing the two corroded 
valves and three tyres, on production of a receipt or other suitable evidence showing the 
expense hes incurred for these items.
I can see Mr E has suffered stress and inconvenience due to being supplied with a vehicle 
that wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ive seen evidence showing he sought independent 
advice, as well as getting a diagnostic report to help him pursue his complaint with Blue. 
Mr E told us that the issues with the car caused him a lot of stress whilst he was going back 
and forth to try to get the problems resolved. He said he found this particularly difficult 
because he was working long hours  sometimes up to 17 hours a day. He explained that 
hes been struggling with his mental health, which has meant dealing with seemingly small 
tasks takes time.
Having thought about what Mr E has told us about the impact this had on him, I think Blue 
should pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
I said I intended to uphold the complaint and direct Blue to:
End the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr E.
Refund 15% of the monthly payments Mr E has made.
Reimburse Mr E the cost of having two valves and three tyres replaced, on 
production of receipts or other suitable evidence of this expense.Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
 Pay Mr E £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr E said he was happy with the outcome Id proposed. Blue said they had nothing further to 
add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or comments in response to my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
End the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr E.
Refund 15% of the monthly payments Mr E has made.
Reimburse Mr E the cost of having two valves and three tyres replaced, on 
production of receipts or other suitable evidence of this expense.
Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Pay Mr E £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
If Blue consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
tell Mr E how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr E a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if hes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman