DRN-2705526
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a mortgage
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI in January 1998 at the same time as they applied for a
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S paid a monthly amount of £15.08 for the policy, but it was free for the first
three months. The benefit was split, so they were each covered by the policy if they were too
ill to work or made involuntarily redundant. This would have been paid for up to 12 months
per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision 19 February 2021 and explained that I agreed with the 
outcome reached by our adjudicator, but I provided some further clarification and gave 
Mr and Mrs S and RBS an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
Mr and Mrs S say they were told they would not get the mortgage without PPI. Our
adjudicator reviewed this and said that due to the length of time since the sale took place,
only limited information is available. So, they could not conclude the policy would not have
been presented as optional when Mr and Mrs S agreed to take it.
I have reviewed the paperwork RBS has provided from the time of sale and this includes
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage offer. The mortgage offer has a section about Special Conditions
and under this, it is confirmed that RBS required Mr and Mrs S to take PPI as a condition of
the offer. So, I agree with Mr and Mrs S that they had to take PPI in order to obtain their 
mortgage, but that doesnt mean RBS did anything wrong.
A financial business is able to make taking out PPI a condition of agreeing a mortgage, if it
considers it sensible to do so. This is different to the situation where taking out PPI is
optional, but the business doesnt make it clear the policy is optional. The document Mr and
Mrs S were given shows that they were made aware they had to have PPI in order to obtain
the mortgage and they have both signed the offer  accepting the terms offered to them. So,
if Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with this special condition, they would have needed to approach
a different lender for their mortgage.
RBS says it didnt give Mr and Mrs S any advice, but Mr and Mrs S says it did. Weve seen a
number of similar sales by RBS and its my understanding that it didnt usually offer advice.
And I havent seen anything on the point of sale documents to suggest RBS reviewed
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances beyond what was necessary to apply for the mortgage. So, I
dont think RBS gave Mr and Mrs S any advice and that means it didnt have to check the
policy was right for them. But RBS did need to give them enough information about the PPI,
so they could decide whether to proceed with their mortgage application or not.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But considering everything Mr and Mrs S have said about their
circumstances at the time, I dont think better information about the PPI would have made a
difference to their decision to take the policy in order to get their mortgage.
I say this because Mr and Mrs S were eligible for the policy and they dont appear to have
been affected by any of the things that might have made it harder for them to claim on the
policy, such as, having a pre-existing medical condition or unusual employment
circumstances. And, in my experience, its likely the premium wasnt excessive in
comparison to similar policies available elsewhere.
The mortgage was secured against Mr and Mrs Ss home and so the consequences of them
not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. So although Mrs S says she
was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay from her employer if she
was off sick from work, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S havent said they had any other way to make their repayments if either of them
lost their job or if Mr S was too unwell to work. And the policy would have paid out in addition
to the employee benefits Mrs S says she had. Mr and Mrs S could also have made repeat
claims subject to a requalification period.
Finally, Mr and Mrs S say they were having difficulty with their finances at the time and that
they explained this to the representative. They say they were struggling to pay other debts
and could not afford anything that wasnt essential.
Ive considered what theyve said, but as Ive explained above, if Mr and Mrs S did not want
to pay for the PPI, then they would have needed to approach a different lender for their
mortgage. While Mr and Mrs S may have been concerned about other debts  the PPI was
protecting their mortgage, which is a big and long-term commitment. So, even though they
had to have the PPI, should the worst have happened, I think the policy could have been
useful to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S havent responded to my provisional decision and RBS confirmed it had 
nothing further to add. So, as Ive not received any new evidence or information, Ive 
reached the same conclusions as I explained in my provisional decision and for the same 
reasons. 
Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI would have stopped Mr and Mrs S from 
taking the policy out in order to obtain their mortgage. So, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
That means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because RBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so The Royal Bank 
of Scotland Group Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand
it has already done this, so I dont intend to award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman