The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr O. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1996 alongside a store credit account. Mr O 
was sold the policy in a meeting in the store at the same time he applied for the account.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr O disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
The application form Mr O filled in and signed in the store has an option to select PPI. And I 
can see that he selected this option by placing a tick in the box provided. I can also see that 
there was another option on the form for card protection. This option wasnt selected. 
Mr O says the sales assistant he spoke to implied that he needed to take the PPI to stand a 
better chance of getting his card. I accept that the sales assistant could have wrongly misled 
him in this way.  But this sale happened a very long time ago and memories of such 
meetings do tend to fade over time. So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that 
this is what happened based solely on what Mr O thinks he remembers now. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr O actively decided he wanted the PPI and 
ticked the box in this section of the application form, knowing he could choose not to if he 
hadnt wanted it. But I can understand why he may not recall this now.
From what Ive seen, I dont think that AXA recommended the PPI to Mr O. This means it 
didnt have to ensure that it was suitable for him. But it did still need to give him enough 
information so that he could decide if it met his needs. I think AXA could have given Mr O 
better information about the policy than it did. But I dont think better information would have 
changed his mind about buying the policy. I say this because:
DRN-1681570Mr O appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main
exclusions and limitations.
The policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Os sick pay and, potentially, for
much longer. And the policy provided more certainty for him than relying for financial
support from his partner. So I think he would have valued the extra security the policy
gave him.
I cant see any real reason why the policy wouldnt have been affordable for Mr O.
And as he paid the policys premiums monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no
longer met his needs.
So I dont think that Mr O has lost out by anything that AXA may have done wrong when it 
sold him this policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr O has said about why he still thinks the policy was mis-
sold. But Im afraid this hasnt changed my opinion that his complaint shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision 
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint against AXA France IARD .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman