DRN-3409305
The complaint
Mr H complains that his stocks and shares ISA transferred over to Financial Administration 
Services Limited (Fidelity) without his permission. Hes also unhappy that Fidelity 
incorrectly registered his address which he says is a data breach. He says it also led to 
difficulties answering security questions during a call with Fidelity.  
What happened
Fidelity sent a welcome letter to Mr H in September 2021 to explain that his ISA had 
transferred to Fidelity from his previous ISA provider. Mr H called Fidelity in October 2021 as 
he had difficulty accessing his account online, but Fidelity was unable to help as the details 
he provided regarding his address didnt match those registered with Fidelity. Fidelity agreed 
to resend the welcome letter, including his Customer Reference Number (CRN) which would 
allow him to register online. 
Mr H called Fidelity again in late October 2021 as he was unhappy that it had incorrectly 
registered the first line of his address. Whilst the error didnt prevent Mr H from receiving the 
letter, he said he considered the error to be a data protection breach. Fidelity apologised and 
offered him £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Due to a system error, the £50 
payment was delayed. Mr H felt hed been discriminated against and continued to contact 
Fidelity to chase the payment throughout November 2021 and each time requested further 
compensation.   
Fidelity sent Mr H its final response on 16 December 2021 explaining that notice was sent to 
him 21 days prior to the migration happening and before this, multiple mailings and warnings 
of the migration was sent to him. Fidelity said it appreciated that Mr H hadnt consented to 
the transfer, however, as an instruction was not provided by him or his previous ISA 
provider, a business decision was made by his previous ISA provider to transfer all ISA 
holdings to Fidelity, due to the migration. 
Fidelity said it had sent all letters to the address it held on its records for Mr H, which was the 
same as that held by his previous ISA provider. It said a data protection breach had not 
occurred, as Mr H had confirmed that he had received the letter containing his CRN at the 
unchanged address. 
Fidelity also apologised for the delay in making the £50 goodwill payment it previously 
agreed to pay Mr H and said that this was due to a technical issue. It said it was advised on 
23 November that the issue had been resolved, however, by this point Mr H had significantly 
increased the compensation he was asking for and it felt that issuing the original £50 
goodwill would only cause further distress. Fidelity said it had checked its contact with Mr H 
and was satisfied that hed been treated fairly and equally like any other client. It did, 
however, acknowledge that Mr H had been caused frustration due to the delay in payment 
and so it increased its offer to £150. 
Mr H didnt agree with the offer amount and so he referred his complaint to this Service for 
an independent review. 
An investigator at this Service considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, 
she said:
Mr H was fully informed of the migration of his ISA to Fidelity and so he ought to have 
contacted his previous ISA provider if he didnt want this to happen. She hadnt seen 
any evidence of him doing this and so she felt it was fair for the ISA to migrate to 
Fidelity.
Fidelity had obtained Mr Hs address details from his previous ISA provider and so 
she didnt think Fidelity had acted unfairly. She also noted that Mr H had received 
correspondence from Fidelity sent to the address it had on file.
Fidelity was required to ask questions to confirm Mr Hs identity when he contacted 
them by telephone, and she didnt think it had acted unfairly when his answers 
regarding his address didnt match.
Having carefully reviewed the circumstances surrounding his complaint, she was 
satisfied that the offer of £150 was fair and reasonable.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings and so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I can see that Mr H feels strongly about his complaint and he has made detailed 
submissions in support of it. But I hope he doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be 
addressing all the submissions he has made individually. This is because the purpose of his 
decision is to address what I consider the key elements of the complaint and provide 
reasons for my findings. 
In my view, the key issues in this complaint are whether it was wrong for Mr Hs ISA to 
transfer to Fidelity, whether a data protection breach has occurred, and whether Mr H should 
be further compensated for the service hes received. 
In terms of the ISA migrating to Fidelity, Im afraid I dont have much to add to what the 
investigator has already said. Im satisfied Mr H was given sufficient notice about this and as 
he didnt contact his previous ISA provider, I think it was fair for his ISA to migrate to Fidelity.
Regarding the discrepancy in Mr Hs address, I appreciate this caused Mr H difficulties in 
answering security questions when asked by Fidelity during a phone call, however, I dont 
think it would be fair to hold Fidelity responsible for this. From the evidence provided, Im 
satisfied that the address Fidelity had on file was that which was provided by Mr Hs previous 
ISA provider. Furthermore, Ive not seen evidence that a data breach has occurred as Mr H 
has confirmed that hes received the correspondence sent by Fidelity despite the 
discrepancy. So I dont think Fidelity has acted unfairly in this respect. 
Whilst I think Fidelity had acted unfairly up until the point Mr H raised his complaint, its clear 
that Fidelity delay in paying Mr H the £50 goodwill payment caused him some further 
distress and inconvenience. I think Fidelity couldve manged Mr Hs expectations better 
around when he could expect the payment and I understand the delay was ultimately caused 
by a technical issue with Fidelitys goodwill payment system. However, Ive also considered that Mr Hs actions also contributed to the further delay in payment. I say this as its clear 
from the contact notes that Mr H was contacting Fidelity on a frequent basis and was 
requesting further compensation each time. I understand the delay would have been 
frustrating for Mr H and so I can appreciate why he was asking for further compensation but 
in doing so, Fidelity had to consider each time whether it was fair to pay him the level of 
compensation he was demanding. Fidelity was also conscious of not making a payment until 
it was satisfied Mr H would accept it, which I think was a fair way to approach matters with 
him.
Im also aware that Mr H feels hes been discriminated against throughout his dealings with 
Fidelity. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given 
that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and 
reasonable. If Mr H wants a decision that Fidelity has breached the Equality Act 2010, then 
hed need to go to Court. 
Taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that, on the whole, Fidelity treated Mr H 
fairly and that its only failing was not making the goodwill offer in a reasonable time and 
managing his expectations around this. But I think Fidelitys increased offer of £150 fairly 
reflects the added distress and inconvenience caused by the further delay and so it should 
arrange for this to be paid to him if it hasnt already been paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint, as the £150 offer Fidelity has 
already made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman