DRN-4184888
The complaint
Mr C complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n (RSA) 
for the settlement it has offered following a claim. He wants RSA to reimburse the costs of 
repairs he incurred and to pay him for the time he spent managing the works.
What happened
Mr C insured his home with RSA. 
In July 2021, Mr Cs home suffered an escape of water from the soil vent pipe of his ensuite 
bathroom. This leaked into the kitchen below and caused damage to both rooms. It appears 
that the pipe may have become dislodged through vibrations from nearby heavy traffic. 
Mr C submitted a claim to RSA. The claim was accepted, and Mr C wanted RSA to carry out 
the repairs to his ensuite bathroom and the kitchen below. 
Strip out, drying and sanitation works took place and the property was confirmed dry in 
November 2021. 
Mr C decided that he wanted to make some changes to the ensuite during repairs, including 
a change to the suite and the tiles to be used. 
There was a delay through December and January as RSA required Mr C to make payment 
of the difference in materials costs before work could begin. 
Repair and reinstatement works began in February 2022, but the relationship between Mr C 
and the contractors broke down and the contractors left the site. 
RSA then decided to cash settle the works and made an offer to Mr C of around £2900. This 
was later increased to include a kitchen panel. 
Mr C obtained quotes for the repairs and received two quotes. One was for around £4900 
plus VAT and the other was for around £3900 plus VAT. The £3900 quote did not include the 
cost of painting the ensuite. Mr C elected that lower quote and told RSA. 
He expected that the settlement would be increased to match this cost, and that RSA would 
pay him for carrying out the painting works himself. 
RSA declined this and Mr C complained. 
RSA sent its final response letter in July 2022. It pointed to the policy wording which set out 
that when cash settling claims it would only pay the cost it would have been if carried out by 
RSAs preferred contractor. 
RSA recognised that there had been around 1 month of unreasonable delay and offered Mr 
C £125 to reflect this. 
Mr C was not happy and contacted us. Our investigator looked into this matter and did not 
consider that the complaint ought to be upheld. They considered that the policy wording was 
clear about the basis of settlement, and that the offer of compensation was reasonable to 
reflect the delays that were due to RSA. 
Mr C did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this matter in May 2023. In that provisional 
decision, I explained that it appeared to me that the decision to cash settle had been taken 
by RSA, and so I considered that our usual approach to cash settlement should apply. In this 
case that would mean that RSA paid the labour costs of Mr Cs engaged contractors, and 
the amount it would have paid for materials and for painting (which Mr C did himself). 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
RSA has provided evidence which it says shows that its contractors left the site due to 
unreasonable behaviour by Mr C. It thinks that it is unfair to apply our approach and 
effectively penalise RSA for cash settling when it believes that Mr C precipitated the 
contractors leaving the site. 
Mr C has responded, accepting the reasoning of the decision but asking for clarification over 
the tiles he bought directly, and whether the cost of tiles would be reimbursed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To first address RSAs comments. I appreciate that RSA has indicated that Mr C caused its 
contractors to leave site. RSA has said that this was due to Mrs C micromanaging the 
process and making demands of the work which the contractors felt were beyond the scope 
of the job. Examples include asking for extra stability measures to account for vibrations 
from the nearby heavy traffic, when these measures were beyond what was being replaced. 
RSA also showed that the contractors felt that Mr C was breaching social distancing 
guidance. 
I have not formed a view on whether Mr C was acting reasonably or unreasonably towards 
the contractors as I was not there to see the interactions, but I appreciate that RSAs 
contractors felt that this was the case. I have explained to RSA that I would expect a 
consumer be given an opportunity to correct problematic behaviour before they could fairly 
bear the consequences, including the financial consequences, of stopping work. 
RSA has demonstrated its contractors concerns but has not shown that Mr C was advised 
of any issue before the contractors left site, nor was he given a chance to rectify any issues 
that he presented.
As a result, I remain of the view that the decision to cash settle the claim by cash was 
RSAs, and so the approach I set out in my provisional decision should apply.
I therefore adopt my provisional decision and reasons, as supplemented by this decision, as 
my final decision. 
Mr C has asked whether the provisional decision includes cash settlement for the tiles. RSA 
has demonstrated that like for like tiles were budgeted and provided for in the settlement figure it originally offered. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, RSA should settle the labour costs Mr C incurred from his 
contractors. 
It should also pay to him the sums it had calculated for replacement tiles, and for painting of 
the bathroom, as Mr C has obtained alternative tiles and did the painting himself. These 
sums should be settled at the rate that RSA would have paid if doing a like for like 
replacement itself. 
Interest should be added at a rate of 8% per annum from the date when Mr C paid his 
contractors up until the date of settlement.
Finally, RSA should pay to Mr C £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n to:
Reimburse Mr C for the costs of labour for his contractors;
Pay to Mr C the sums RSA had calculated for replacement tiles, and for painting the 
bathroom
Add to the above sums interest at a rate of 8% per annum; and
Pay to Mr C £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman