DRN-2669924
The complaint
Mr F complains about not receiving a full refund of his money from Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited after he cancelled his investment within the 14-day cooling off period. He says he 
was told by Aviva, on multiple occasions, that hed get a full fund refund if he decided not to 
go ahead with the investment within this period.  
What happened
I understand that Mr F and his wife, Mrs F  who has an identical complaint  were advised 
by a third-party adviser, to invest in a Stocks and Shares ISA and Investment Portfolio 
provided by Aviva. 
Mr F, after changing his mind about investing, within the 14-day cooling off period, received 
less than what hed invested. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that its terms and conditions made 
clear that returned/sold funds may be less than what was put in, due to market fluctuations. 
It also said that Mr F didnt cancel the pending investment before it went ahead, and thats 
why he didnt get all his money back.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
A brief timeline of the events is as follows:
oOn 24 February 2020, Aviva received Mr Fs cheque. 
oOn 27 February 2020, Mrs F called Aviva to raise concerns about the 
financial market. She was told that a full refund would be available if she 
cancelled her investment within 14 days. She was also told the cheque hadnt 
cleared, and the investment was pending.  
oOn 28 February 2020, several things happened: 
Mr Fs cheque payment cleared, and the investment went ahead. 
Mr F and Mrs F returned their cancellation forms to Avia by recorded 
delivery.
Mrs F called Aviva at 09:44am to cancel her investment
Mr F called Aviva at 09:59am to cancel his investment. 
oOn 3 March 2020, Aviva received the cancellation forms. 
oOn 6 March 2020, Aviva placed instructions to sell. 
oOn 17 March 2020, Mr F received a refund, less than the amount he first put 
in. 
The call at 13:27pm on 27 February 2020 is crucial in determining what action Mr F 
and Mrs F wouldve taken.  
The terms and conditions, under the heading can I change my mind? make clear 
that customers might get back significantly less than what they put in. This wasnt 
explained by the adviser on the above call when Mrs F asked the question. Instead, 
Mrs F confirmed that she was only told she had 14 days to change her mind. 
The terms and conditions of both ISA and investment portfolio state:
o23. Cancellation
You can change your mind within 14 days of us receiving your first payment. 
You must notify us by telephone, email or in writing if you wish to cancel.
The adviser said that she would speak to the team if Mrs F wanted to cancel her 
investment, but Mrs F wasnt sure, and asked if she would get her money back if she 
cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period. Mrs F was told that shed get back 
what she put in and this gave Mrs F (and Mr F) reassurance that she/they still had 
time to decide and could get their money back.  
On 28 February 2020, immediately after receiving the cancellation forms Mr F sent 
the form by recorded delivery. He and Mrs F, both called Aviva the same morning to 
re-confirm their change of mind. 
If Mrs F had been given the correct advice on 27 February 2020, Mr F wouldve done 
things differently. Its likely that he wouldve cancelled his investments there and 
then. 
The fact that he went on to cancel his investments within 12 hours of the phone call 
suggests thats what he wouldve done on 27 February 2020, if Mrs F had been given 
the correct information.
Despite Aviva not receiving the forms until 3 March 2020, the phone conversation of 
28 February shouldve been enough to put it on notice that Mr F no longer wanted to 
go ahead with the investment. 
To put things right Aviva should:
oRefund any losses made on her full refund, with 8% interest.  
Aviva asked the investigator to re-consider his decision considering the following response 
from Mrs F: 
However, there is one salient issue which needs to be addressed which is the right to 
change your mind within a cooling off period and hence the cancellation. When we initially 
agreed to the investment we did have doubts, particularly my husband, and the Fin Advisor 
drew our attention to the caveat, whereby we would have the right to cancel in the cooling 
off period. This was not fully explained and on hindsight I suggest you review this 
cancellation policy or remove it completely as it offers no confidence or rights to the 
customer and is, in fact, misleading since the refund is nothing more than a normal 
withdrawal of funds on a given day. I still emphasise the decision for our cancellation which 
was driven by the information given by your staff which you have admitted. Again on this 
basis I seek further compensation and the full amount restored.
Aviva says this suggests that Mr F and Mrs F had doubts about the investment from the 
outset and wonders if theyve spoken to their adviser. 
Having considered the additional points, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. Whilst Mr F and Mrs F may have had doubts about their investments, Aviva told them 
that they could cancel the investment within 14 days without any further explanation. In other 
words, Mrs F was given incorrect information otherwise Mr F couldve done things differently 
in order to immediately cancel his investment. 
Aviva believes the correct position was made clear in the terms and conditions. Including 
Section 25 Cancellation where it makes clear that for any single payment where the 
investment has fallen, it will return payment less the fall. Likewise, section 23 cancellation, 
has similar wording providing the same message. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Aviva says, in this instance Im 
not persuaded that it behaved reasonably.  
I note Mrs F called Aviva on 27 February 2020 to express her concerns/reservations about 
the financial market. I note she asked about the cooling off period as she hadnt received the 
cancellation documents. She wasnt sure about what she wanted to do but asked if the 
investment could be put on hold. I note Mrs F was told, in no uncertain terms, that she could 
cancel her investment within 14 days and get back what she put in.  
I note Mrs F was also told that the cheque hadnt cleared, and that the investment was 
pending. 
On 27 February 2020, I think the phone adviser shouldve told Mrs F that shed get a refund 
of her money, if she cancelled the investment within 14 days, less any loss due to market 
movements. 
I think its a relevant and crucial piece of information that Aviva shouldve told her at the time, 
to enable her and Mr F to make an informed decision about whether to wait or cancel the 
investment immediately  thats where I think the key issue in this case lies. 
Instead Mrs F was told that even if the investments went ahead, Aviva will have to sell down, 
and shed get back what she put in, so long as she cancelled within the 14-day window.  
Despite what Aviva says about Mrs Fs and Mr Fs financial adviser, I dont think Mr F was 
wrong to rely on and act upon the information given to Mrs F by Aviva. 
I note Mrs Fs response that Aviva refers to, but I also note she (on behalf of herself and Mr 
F) says:
I still emphasise the decision for our cancellation which was driven by the information 
given by your staff which you have admitted.
I appreciate that Avivas terms and conditions make clear that if Mr F changed his mind 
within the 14-day cooling off period, hed be entitled to a refund less any funds lost due to 
market movements. But I dont think this is material in terms of my decision.   
In this case, notwithstanding what the terms and conditions say, Im considering what 
wouldve happened but for the error, not what wouldve happened if the incorrect/incomplete 
information Mr F was led to believe was true. 
Thats why I think by simply telling Mrs F that she and Mr F had 14 days to decide, Mr F 
wouldve been deprived of the opportunity to make an informed decision about whether (or 
not) he wanted to cancel, and when to do it.  
On balance, I think that Mr F wouldve done things differently if Mrs F had been told (on 27 
February 2020) that the refund of the money, albeit within the 14-day cooling off period, was 
subject to market movements. On balance, I think he wouldve cancelled his investment immediately, on 27 February 2020 
over the phone, rather than waiting to send the cancellation forms by recorded delivery the 
next day and then calling up to confirm his instructions. Incidentally, its not clear why Aviva 
didnt start the cancellation process when Mr F called back on 28 February 2020 to confirm 
his cancellation instructions.
If Mr F had instructed Aviva on 27 February 2020  as I think he wouldve if the business had 
done things differently  his instructions wouldve been made and received before the 
investment went ahead on 28 February 2020. Therefore, notwithstanding Avivas terms and 
conditions regarding cancellation, I think Mr F is entitled to a full refund of his money. 
In other words, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite Avivas terms and 
conditions, I think Mr F wouldve cancelled his investment before the investment was made, 
and therefore hes entitled to a full refund of his money, without any deductions. 
To put things right, I think Aviva should compare the refund Mr F received, with what he 
ought to have received if the money had been returned in full following his instructions to 
cancel on 27 February 2020 and pay the difference with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
I understand that Aviva has offered Mr F (and Mrs F) £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused which I think is fair and reasonable. 
 
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr F the difference on his refund, with 8% 
simple interest, from the date of payment to the date of settlement as explained above. 
In other words, pay the difference between what Mr F received and the full refund, with 8 % 
simple interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr F redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman