DRN-3370161
The complaint
Mr B has complained Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) didnt treat him fairly when 
he asked for help. 
What happened
Mr B acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement with Startline in 2017. The car cost 
around £16,500 and was due to be paid back over five years with instalments of around 
£400. 
In May 2020 Mr B says he was made redundant as a result of Covid-19. He contacted 
Startline to ask for help in June, and it offered him a one-month payment deferral. After this, 
Mr B continued to pay his agreement using savings but contacted Startline in January 2021 
to ask for further support. He requested a further payment deferral. 
Startline and Mr B communicated over the next few weeks but werent able to reach an 
agreement. Startline wanted to take steps to assess Mr Bs affordability. Whereas Mr B 
wanted Startline to offer support that he thought the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had 
set out in its Covid-19 guidance for car finance firms  that is, for Startline to have given him 
the option of taking a six month payment deferral. Mr B started missing payments in January 
2021. And in March, Startline issued a notice of its intention to terminate the agreement. 
As things couldnt be resolved, Mr B complained and Startline sent its final response in April 
2021. Its response essentially said it wasnt upholding Mr Bs complaint because it had been 
unable to complete an income and expenditure review to make sure the assistance was 
appropriate. Mr B brought the complaint to our service to consider. And he was able to 
recommence making payments again in June 2021. 
After Mr B brought his complaint to our service Startline issued a court claim in December 
2021. The claim was for delivery up of the car and damages pursuant to termination of the 
agreement. 
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. She thought Startline 
acted fairly in 2020 by offering a one-month payment deferral. But she thought Mr B should 
have been eligible for up to six payment deferrals in total. She highlighted Mr B had missed 
a total of six payments (including the payment in 2020). She thought the FCA guidance was 
intended for immediate support, so didnt think Startline were required to carry out detailed 
checks before agreeing to the deferral, in Mr Bs particular circumstances. She also thought 
the situation had caused Mr B a considerable amount of trouble and upset. In summary, our 
investigator recommended Startline:
Treat Mr Bs account as if hed had a total of six payment deferrals. 
Remove adverse information from the credit reference agencies from January 2021 
onwards. 
Remove any charges that had been applied as a result of the court action and the 
missed payments. 
Pay Mr B £250 compensation.
Startline didnt agree with the recommendation. In summary it said:
It had acted responsibly and that it didnt think it would have been right to 
automatically grant payment deferrals to all customers who requested it. 
It attempted to review each request individually to make sure it treated customers 
fairly.
It gave Mr B other options such as voluntary surrender or voluntary termination. 
Its enquiries were made to make sure the payment deferral was the best option for 
Mr B, and that the affordability checks were reasonable. 
Without carrying out the review of Mr Bs situation, it had no way of knowing what the 
long-term impact of a payment deferral would have been, and whether it was in 
Mr Bs best interests. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say Im sorry to hear Mr B was negatively impacted by Covid-19. It cant have 
been easy, and I want to thank him for taking the time to bring his complaint to our service. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend 
any discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure 
Mr B and Startline that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, 
its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
Mr B acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
I think the key question I need to ask myself is did Startline treat Mr B fairly when he asked 
for help? Having reviewed everything thats happened, I dont think it did. I also think our 
investigators recommendations are a fair way to put things right. And for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Relevant rules and guidance
Relevant guidance includes the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and in 
particular CONC 7, Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession). CONC 7 says 
that firms should consider consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration. This could be in the form of waiving interest, deferring arrears payments, 
accepting token payments etc.
Additional guidance was also introduced by the FCA in April 2020  Motor finance 
agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This guidance introduced 
temporary measures for consumers whose finances had been impacted by Covid-19. The 
FCA states the additional guidance builds on Principle 6 ('A firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly').In relation to payment deferrals or deferral periods  this guidance says:
Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary 
payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to 
receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 
months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the 
customers interests to do so.
In determining whether a 3-month payment deferral is obviously not in customers interests, 
firms should consider both customers need for immediate temporary support and the longer-
term effects of a payment deferral on the customers situation, in particular the customers 
ability to repay any accrued interest once the payment deferral ends, and over what period.
The FCA updated this guidance in July 2020. The update provided further guidance for 
firms, and more specifically advised on what considerations should be given to consumers 
that were given payment deferrals following its previous announcement. Eligible customers 
were able to ask for a further three-month payment deferral. 
The guidance was updated again in September and November 2020. The November 
guidance said: Eligible customers seeking a first payment deferral, and those eligible 
customers who have previously accessed payment deferrals that totalled less than 6 months 
under this guidance, can seek a new payment deferral up to 31 March 2021. 
And the guidance goes on to say the FCA expects firms to extend payment deferrals after 
31 March 2021 to cover payments up to 31 July 2021 providing they are consecutive and 
that the customer is eligible. 
Taking all this guidance into account, it seems to me that the overall intention of the 
guidance was to provide quick, short-term assistance to customers in difficulty without the 
need for prolonged discussions or detailed additional checks before agreeing a payment 
deferral. And that providing Mr B was eligible he should have been given a further payment 
deferral when he asked for one in January 2021. 
Did Startline treat Mr B fairly?
As a starting point, I think Startline acted fairly by granting Mr B a payment deferral when he 
asked for one in 2020. So I dont think I need to go over that again here. Ive next thought 
about the support it offered in 2021. 
On the one hand, I can understand why Startline had some concerns about Mr Bs ability to 
sustainably repay the agreement. He said hed been made redundant in May 2020 and by 
January 2021 hed not got back to the position where he could make payments. And, 
generally speaking, establishing a customers income and expenditure is a common practice 
for a lender to carry out when deciding what support to offer someone in financial difficulties. 
But on the other hand, I have to bear in mind Mr B got in touch with Startline because he, 
like many other people, was facing a period of reduced income and uncertainty. From what 
Ive been told, prior to the impact of Covid-19, Mr B had not had any issues paying the 
agreement since taking it out in 2017. It looks like Covid-19 was the reason he was in 
financial difficulties. So I think the guidance was intended for customers like Mr B. 
Moreover, the guidance was there to offer some immediate temporary support for customers 
impacted by Covid-19. I dont think there was a blanket requirement for Startline to carry out 
detailed checks before offering support. I think it would have been fairer, in this particular case, for Startline to have offered Mr B the option to take out a further payment deferral. As it 
turned out, Mr B recommenced his payments from June 2021. So, in total, his requirement 
was for a six-month deferral. 
Startline has repeatedly said it didnt want to offer something to Mr B that was not in his best 
interests. But the FCA guidance says Startline should have granted the deferral unless it 
determined (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interest to do so. I 
think this is a subtle but important difference. I dont think that acting reasonably, in this 
particular case, meant Startline had to carry out affordability checks. And Im not persuaded 
that granting Mr B the deferral in January 2021 was obviously not in his best interests. So I 
think Mr B should have been given the deferral. Or indeed had it applied retrospectively once 
he started to recommence his payments. To put things right, I think he should be put in the 
position he would have been in, had he been given the deferral, which includes ensuring his 
credit file doesnt show a worsening status. Startline should come to a suitable arrangement 
with Mr B to enable him to clear the deferred payments.
Does Startline need to take any further action. 
I agree with our investigator the matter has caused Mr B a lot of worry and upset that, to my 
mind, could have been avoided. Hes worried about the impact on his credit file. This 
happened when he had the added worry of being out of work for some time as a result of 
Covid-19. Hes had the further worry of a court claim sent to him. And hes had to go to court 
on occasions to explain whats happening. 
Startline also took the view that as the debt was with its legal team there was no activity 
Startline was involved in to influence. Frankly, thats unhelpful to say the least. 
Moreover, and importantly, I think its disappointing to see Startline commenced court 
proceedings at the time it did. CONC 7.15.10R says: 
A lender must not initiate legal proceedings in relation to a regulated credit agreement where 
the lender is aware that the customer has submitted a valid complaint or what appears to 
the firm may be a valid complaint relating to the agreement in question that is being 
considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I cant stop Startline from carrying out legal proceedings, but taking everything into account, I 
think it should strongly consider bringing the debt back from its legal team. I agree any fees 
or charges in relation to the court action or missed payments should also be removed. And I 
agree Startline should also compensate Mr B £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that uphold this complaint and direct Startline Motor Finance Limited to:
1. Treat the 2021 missed payments as if they were deferred.  
2. Remove adverse information from the credit reference agencies from January 2021 
onwards. 
3. Remove any fees or charges that have been applied as a result of the court action 
and the missed payments. 
4. Pay Mr B £250 compensation.
Startline should also contact Mr B to make a suitable sustainable arrangement for him to 
clear the deferred payments. Id remind Startline to treat Mr B with forbearance and due 
consideration if hes unable to clear the deferred payments in one go. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman