DRN-4076164
The complaint
Mr F complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money reported adverse 
information on his credit file that stopped him getting a loan of £200,000.00.
What happened
Mr F remortgaged with Virgin Money. The mortgage was composed of two parts. Part 1 was 
interest-only for £337,500.00 and Part 2 was capital and interest repayment for £158,499.00. 
The value of the property at that stage was £680,000.00. Mr Fs income was from his work at 
that time as a property developer.  
In early 2022 Mr F had difficulties making his contractual monthly payments (CMPs). Mr F 
contacted Virgin Money and made a payment arrangement which it recorded on his credit 
file. But Mr F then paid off the CMP that would be due after borrowing money from a friend. 
In addition to this mortgage Mr F had other debts and a second mortgage. Mr F wanted to 
pay off this secured loan which he says was very expensive to service. Mr F approached a 
broker/underwriter specialising in second mortgages in July 2022 to have this loan and other 
loans refinanced and pay for a family holiday. That was further borrowing of £200,000.  But 
the broker did a credit search which disclosed the payment arrangement and told Mr F he 
was unable to process the loan any further.
Mr F has a credit search dated 15 July 2022 which shows that that theres an arrangement 
to pay in place for May and June on account ending 977 and for May only on the other 
account ending 985. Mr F complained to Virgin Money in July that it should not have 
registered the payment arrangement and it was preventing him getting a loan. 
Virgin Money says that an arrangement was entered into but accepts that full payments were 
made on the account at that time and in November it amended the accounts to show that full 
payments were made. It offered Mr F £200 in compensation for the significant distress it 
caused him. It also offered Mr F £200 for the delay in responding to the complaint.
Our investigator felt that the compensation offered by Virgin Money was appropriate. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that further compensation should be paid as she was not 
persuaded that a further loan would have been extended to Mr F even if there were no 
markers on his credit file. Mr F disagreed saying in summary that the investigator had 
missed the key point that no one would lend to a customer in a payment arrangement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F was in financial difficulties in early 2022 and asked for assistance from Virgin Money in 
the form of a payment arrangement. That could cause potential problems for Mr F as it 
involved a credit marker on Mr Fs credit record showing the arrangement. Mr F asked for 
the arrangement in May and Virgin Money recorded it as such. But Mr F didnt use the 
arrangement at that time. I expect that was because of his concerns about the marker on his 
credit file. Instead, he borrowed money from a friend and paid the CMP. So, Virgin Money, 
having agreed the arrangement, recorded it as an arrangement although in reality Mr F paid 
the CMP. This arrangement showed up on one account for the month of May only and for 
the other account the months of May and June 2022. From July 2022 Mr F contacted Virgin 
Money to have the arrangement flags removed. But it wasnt until November that Virgin 
Money did this. 
I cant see from the file that having agreed the arrangement that Mr F told Virgin Money that 
he didnt need the arrangement. Subsequent difficulties may well have been avoided had Mr 
F done so. But eventually Virgin Money accepted that if Mr F paid the CMP, a payment 
arrangement was an incorrect record of the standing of the account at that time. So, it 
amended the record and paid compensation for Mr Fs distress and inconvenience.  
But Mr F says that as a result of the credit marker he has suffered a financial loss. Mr F was 
hoping that part of his debt would be refinanced through a second mortgage arranged 
through a broker. The broker says that he couldnt progress the application because of the 
payment marker. In order to consider any financial loss, I must first consider whether Mr Fs 
application, which wasnt proceeded with, was likely to be successful, leaving aside whether 
the payment arrangement was fatal to the application. In his email to us of 12 April 2023, Mr 
F says, Whether the application was going to be successful or not is beside the point. But 
thats incorrect. If Mr Fs application wasnt going to succeed even if the credit marker hadnt 
been there he suffered no loss because it was there. So, in order to determine whether there 
was any loss its reasonable for me to consider whether the application was going to 
succeed.
When Mr F was applying for the extra £200,000.00 borrowing, he had no job and had to 
borrow money from a friend to pay the CMP on his first mortgage. Mr F used a broker who 
says if there was no credit marker, we would have been able to assist you based on the 
information we had on file for you at the time and past lender criteria at this time. 
The assistance offered  whatever that might turn out to be  is based on information not 
disclosed namely the information the broker has on file. The correspondence doesnt assist 
me by telling me what the information on file is, and whether its accurate. So, to clarify I 
asked Mr F the following questions:
1. Could he ask the broker to forward to us the information that the broker held on file in 
relation to Mr Fs circumstances and his application at that time?
2. What interest rate would have applied to the loan of £200,000, what would the fees have 
been and what would the monthly repayments be?
3. How did the broker see Mr F being able to repay this loan as he didn't have a job at this 
time?
I considered these were relevant questions, but I didnt receive a response that would assist 
me to understand if Mr F was likely to get this loan and be able to afford it. I note when Mr F 
asked for his payment arrangement in May that he had no job, his income/expenditure 
account supplied to Virgin Money showed a monthly deficit of £2,200.00 and that he could 
only afford to pay the CMP through borrowing from a friend. That does not suggest that he 
would be likely to be able to afford a new loan of £200,000.00, even accepting that a large 
part of it, but not all, was to replace existing borrowing.  
As Mr F cant tell me what the monthly repayments would have been with the proposed new 
loan I cant say whether, even if he had got that loan, he would be in a better or a worse position with the new loan than with his existing arrangements and without the new loan. So, 
my view is that I cant fairly say that Mr F suffered a financial loss because of Virgin Moneys 
actions. 
I noted that from July onward Mr F made several efforts to get Virgin Money to amend the 
credit record which it eventually did, and I accept that must have been frustrating for him, but 
I believe that the compensation of £400 offered fairly compensates him for that. But for the 
reasons set out above I cant say that Mr F suffered a financial loss, and I dont require 
Virgin Money to pay further compensation. So, for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman