DRN-4132479
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) applied an Early 
Repayment Charge (ERC) when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S agreed to a fixed rate mortgage product with Yorkshire in June 2021. Their 
interest rate was fixed at 1.23% until 30 September 2023.
In July 2022 Mr and Mrs S sold the mortgaged property and redeemed their mortgage in full. 
They paid an ERC of £6,925.66. Mr S complains that the amount he was charged was unfair 
and in excess of the amount Yorkshire was allowed to charge. He complains about the time 
it took for Yorkshire to respond to his complaint and that Yorkshire hasnt explained how the 
ERC was calculated.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He didnt think Yorkshire had made a mistake when 
it applied the ERC. He said the ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage contract Mr 
and Mrs S entered into. Hed seen evidence of how Yorkshire calculated the ERC and was 
satisfied that it reflected a reasonable pre-estimate of Yorkshires loss when the mortgage 
was paid early. Our investigator appreciated that Mr S wanted to understand the way the 
ERC was calculated but said that was commercially sensitive information so it wasnt 
appropriate to disclose it to him. 
Our investigator also said that he could see that Yorkshire has apologised for the time it took 
to respond to Mr and Mrs S complaint and offered them £200 compensation. He thought 
that was a fair and reasonable amount.
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
Mr S made a number of points that Ive considered below. Amongst other things Mr S told us 
that he doesnt understand how the ERC he was charged can be a reasonable pre-estimate 
of Yorkshires loss. He said he was due to pay Yorkshire around £4,250 for the rest of the 
term of his fixed-term product, so he cant understand how he and Mrs S could be charged 
around £2,675 more for redeeming their mortgage when they did. He thinks Yorkshire is 
profiteering.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ill begin by saying that the ERC was clearly documented in the 2021 fixed rate product offer 
that was sent Mr and Mrs S before they took out the mortgage product. Im satisfied that they 
accepted that offer and the ERC associated with it. So my starting point is to say that when 
they redeemed their mortgage, it wasnt unreasonable for Yorkshire to charge the ERC that 
theyd accepted.
The regulatory rules that govern ERCs are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB). MCOB says 
that an ERC must be able to be expressed as a cash value and must be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs resulting from early termination of the mortgage. However, MCOB 
allows a lender to choose how it calculates an ERC, and to calculate the same level of ERC 
across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather than for individual loans. That means 
Yorkshire is entitled to set an ERC based on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early 
termination of a group of mortgages of similar type rather than the actual cost to it of Mr and 
Mrs S ending their own mortgage early.
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Yorkshire is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed - Yorkshire doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. 
The ERC was expressed as a cash value Mr and Mrs S 2021 mortgage offer. So Ive 
considered whether the ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage 
being repaid early. 
Yorkshire has provided us with evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of this 
tranche of mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in 
confidence if it is appropriate to do so. Im satisfied that the information Yorkshire has 
provided is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence. So I 
wont be disclosing it to Mr and Mrs S  even though I know how keen Mr S is to understand 
these costs in full.
However, I will say that the information from Yorkshire shows that it takes into account a 
number of factors when estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has 
provided a breakdown of the figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and 
estimates it has made. It shows that the ERC reflects a number of costs and risks including 
its costs of setting up the mortgage, the cost of financial instruments that could be used to 
protect its position (and unwinding those) and its future losses. Ive looked carefully at what 
Yorkshire has said and I consider it is a fair way to calculate the ERC.
As Im satisfied that the amount charged in this case was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss, 
it follows that I dont think the ERC should be refunded. 
For completeness I will say here that I can see that Mr S has asked me to answer specific 
questions he has regarding his complaint. I understand that he isnt satisfied by what he has 
been told in connection with the complaint so far and its clear that he doesnt agree with the 
Financial Ombudsman Services stance on certain issues relating to mortgages. Its clear he 
wants detailed answers from me to the points he has raised. But Im afraid my role is to 
focus on this complaint and resolve it in a fair and reasonable way. The nub of this complaint 
is that Mr and Mrs S think the ERC they were charged was excessive. I dont think it is for 
the reasons set out above. Mr S has also asked me whether any administration fees have been double counted by 
Yorkshire charging him and Mrs S a £90 mortgage fee as well as an ERC. Im satisfied they 
havent. As I said above, ERCs are charged to cover the costs to lenders of consumers 
repaying borrowing early. The ERC charged in this case didnt cover Yorkshires  
administration costs when Mr and Mrs S mortgage was redeemed.
Finally I will cover the time it took Yorkshire to deal with Mr S questions. In September 2022 
Mr S first started asking Yorkshire to explain why it thought the ERC he was charged was a 
reasonable pre-estimate of its costs. Yorkshire didnt answer the question to Mr S 
satisfaction, so he continued to ask it for several weeks before complaining about the matter. 
I understand why Mr S was frustrated that his questions werent answered in the way he 
wanted, but as the full answer is covered by the commercially sensitive information Ive 
discussed above I can understand why that happened.   
Yorkshire has apologised for the time it took to respond to the complaint and paid Mr S £200 
compensation in January 2023. That compensation reflected a number of factors: Yorkshire 
continued to provide the same response to Mr S messages, it took too long to respond and 
it didnt phone Mr S back as it said it would. 
I think £200 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount given the issues involved. So I 
wont require Yorkshire to pay more to resolve this complaint.
I appreciate its likely that Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed by the outcome of this 
complaint but for the reasons set out above, Yorkshire doesnt need to do more to resolve it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Yorkshire Building Society doesnt 
need to do anything more to resolve this complaint having paid Mr and Mrs S fair 
compensation of £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman