DRN-4406163
The complaint
Company T has complained about Amtrust Europe Limited. It isnt happy that Amtrust 
wouldnt deal with a claim under its legal expenses insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Amtrust includes their agents. 
What happened
T made a claim under its legal expenses insurance policy following a dispute with a 
customer which led to difficulties with a supplier it worked with - the supplier removed its 
accreditation to use one of their products. 
Amtrust looked into the difficulties T faced but explained that there wasnt any cover for this 
under the legal expenses insurance policy. As T wasnt happy about this it complained to 
Amtrust and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for T but didnt uphold its complaint. As T wasnt claiming 
for an insured event under the policy she didnt think Amtrust had done anything wrong. She 
thought Amtrust took the time to consider the particular circumstances T faced and clearly 
explained that there wasnt any cover under the policy. 
As T didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why T wants to make a claim under its legal expenses policy in this 
instance and I know this has been a difficult time for T. But the question I need to consider is 
whether Amtrust did anything wrong in turning down the claim T made. 
Company T believes the legal expenses policy should cover the dispute it had with its 
customer and subsequently its supplier when this arose. And Ive seen the correspondence 
T has provided surrounding this and I can understand its position. But, as T has been made 
aware, insurance products do not cover every eventuality and unfortunately the scenario T 
faced, stemming from a dispute with its customer, isnt covered under the policy. And Im 
satisfied that Amtrust have considered Ts claim in a fair and reasonable way but there 
wasnt any aspect of the policy that covered the claim T was making. 
Amtrust looked to see if Ts claim could be considered under the policy and focussed on the 
aspects of the policy that might provide cover. Firstly, it looked at whether Ts dispute with its 
customer or supplier could be considered under the Contract & debt recovery section of the 
policy. But as Ts dispute with its customer had been resolved and there was no longer a 
breach or alleged breach of an agreement then this section didnt apply. I know T didnt want 
its supplier/accreditor to take the steps it took with the customer to put things right as T 
disputed whether it had done anything wrong or not, but the steps taken meant that there 
was no longer a dispute with the customer.
I note Amtrust looked at Ts contract with its supplier/accreditor in consideration of its claim 
as well. But Amtrust highlighted the contract cover excludes claims that stem from any 
criticism of your service by customersmay result in your status being removed. And as Ts 
accreditation was removed due to a complaint from its customer and Ts refusal to pay a 
small amount of costs invoiced to T by the supplier/accreditor Amtrust said that this was a 
clear breach of the contract terms. 
Amtrust went on to consider whether any alleged slanderous comments that T felt it faced 
and the subsequent removal of Ts accreditation with its supplier could be considered under 
the Crisis communication aspect of the policy. However, Amtrust felt that an exclusion 
applied as a matter has not actually resulted in adverse publicity appearing online, in print or 
broadcast so it didnt feel Ts claim was covered under this part of the policy either. In effect 
Amtrust didnt believe it could consider the claim under the crisis communication part of the 
policy as there hadnt been any adverse publicity although Amtrust appreciated that there 
had been threats of this. And Amtrust looked at all other aspects of cover under the policy 
but concluded this claim didnt come under any other categories and so wasnt covered 
under the legal expenses policy. But suggested T should check any other insurance policies 
it has in case it had cover elsewhere.
Ultimately Ts policy only provides legal expenses insurance cover in relation to certain 
events. And in this instance Amtrust have explained that the policy terms and conditions 
dont cover what T has claimed for and as this isnt an insured event Amtrust turned down 
the claim. 
I know this is disappointing and that, at the time, T believed this claim would be covered but 
that isnt how the policy works and I cant ask Amtrust to step outside the policy terms and 
conditions. I say this as Im satisfied this isnt an insured event under the policy and the 
policy documentation is clear. I know it doesnt specify the exact circumstances that T faced, 
but I wouldnt expect an insurer to outline every possible eventuality when cover isnt 
provided. 
The policy clearly outlines what is covered and I know T feels that there has been criminality 
and fraud in what the parties involved here have alleged against T. But they are criminal 
matters and would have to be advanced by the police or T could take legal advice on this. 
Unfortunately, I have to consider what actually happened and the circumstances surrounding 
the claim and they dont fit with a claim under the policy. Given all of this, and despite my 
natural sympathy for T, I dont think Amtrust have acted unreasonably in turning down the 
claim.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman