DRN-3691540
The complaint
Miss S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly recorded a claim she 
made as a theft claim.
What happened
Miss S renewed her policy with Advantage Insurance shortly after a claim around October 
2021- she made the claim after the catalytic converter of her car was cut off and taken. 
Following the renewal, Advantage Insurance informed Miss S that the claim had since been 
recorded as a theft claim and therefore her premium had increased and her no claims 
discount had been reduced. Miss S complained because she thinks the insurer shouldve 
treated the incident as a vandalism claim.
Advantage Insurance responded that it had categorised the claim in line with its terms. 
Miss S remained unhappy and asked this service to review her complaint. She wants her no 
claims discount reinstated, the premium increase refunded and the claim to be recorded as 
vandalism. 
One of our investigators concluded that that Advantage Insurance acted fairly and in line 
with its terms. Miss S didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im also of the opinion that Advantage Insurance recorded the claim fairly. I 
know Miss S will be disappointed to hear this, so Ill explain why.
I understand Miss S motivation behind why she wants the claim recorded as vandalism. The 
terms of the policy set out Advantage Insurances vandalism promise, which would protect 
Miss S no claims discount from being affected, provided certain conditions are met. Its not 
for me to decide Miss S claim, I can only make a decision on whether Advantage Insurance 
acted reasonably  which I think it did.
The terms of Miss S policy explain that her car is covered for damage caused by theft. 
Based on what I know of the incident, an unknown third party cut off the catalytic converter 
from Miss S car and took it away. Although I acknowledge Miss S interpretation of the 
vandalism terms, ultimately it seems to me that the catalytic converter was stolen and I 
share the insurers stance that the damage was caused by the act of theft by the third party. 
In my view then, Advantage Insurance has acted reasonably by recording the claim as theft. 
I can appreciate that it must be upsetting for Miss S that shes had to pay an increased 
premium and lose out on several years of her no claims discount. But I can only ask 
Advantage Insurance to refund Miss S the premium increase and reinstate her no claims 
discount if I think the insurer did something wrong. It seems to me though that Miss S no 
claims discount has been reduced in line with the insurers terms, and a premium increase is 
a typical result of a claim (regardless of fault). 
As I explained, I think Advantage Insurance acted fairly when it recorded the claim as theft. 
So I wont be asking Advantage Insurance to do anything differently in relation to this 
complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman