DRN-2635001
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the settlement offer Aviva Insurance Limited made when he 
made a claim for smoke damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Cs neighbour who lives below his flat had a kitchen fire. Smoke entered into 
Mr Cs flat through the floorboards. Mr C made a claim to his insurer, Aviva for smoke 
damage to his carpet, kitchen and hall flooring, a sofa, chair and curtains. 
Aviva sent a loss adjuster (LA) to inspect the damage. The LA recommended the items be 
professionally cleaned. Aviva made a cash settlement of £450 for the costs of a clean. 
Mr C didnt agree. He wanted Aviva to replace the items rather than clean them. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She said Avivas 
offer to either pay for a cleaner to carry out the clean  or pay Mr C a cash settlement of 
£450  was fair. And she said that if after carrying out a professional clean Mr C found that 
the smoke damage was still present, he could bring a new complaint to Aviva.
Mr C didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy with Aviva says that in the event of a claim it can choose to either pay the cost 
of repairs; or arrange for repairs; or pay Mr C cash based on the cost of repairs; or give him 
an equivalent replacement. 
The LA reported that there was a faint smell of smoke when he entered Mr Cs flat. He said: 
On closer inspection of the items, I found there was no visible staining or structural 
damage to any of the items. As there is only slight smoke damage to the carpets and 
furniture, I recommend the items be cleaned and deodorised  including the curtains 
and vertical blinds in the lounge.
I understand Mr C doesnt agree with the LAs findings. But I dont think Aviva acted 
unreasonably by relying on their opinion. And Mr C hasnt provided anything of equal weight 
to show that the settlement offer made isnt enough to put things right. 
So based on what Ive seen, I think Avivas handling of Mr Cs claim was reasonable and in 
line with the policy. This means Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman