DRN-1237052
 
The complaint
Mrs H says Lloyds Bank PLC, mis-sold her a regular monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a mortgage. 
What happened
In 1995 Mrs H purchased a PPI policy when she took out a mortgage. The PPI included 
cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. The policy cost £12.60 each month and 
wouldve provided a monthly benefit of up to £200 for up to 12 months following a successful 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint, but Mrs H disagreed with this. So, the 
complaint comes to me to decide. Mrs H says the policy wasnt optional, it was added to her 
account without her knowledge and she didnt need the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs complaint.
I think its likely Lloyds made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to purchase the policy  although I can understand if she cant remember this given 
the meeting in the branch took place nearly 25 years ago.
I havent been able to look at all of the paperwork from the time the policy was sold but I 
dont think this is surprising given how long ago the sale took place and the fact that the 
mortgage was redeemed a long time ago. However, I do know that the way PPI was 
presented by Lloyds at the time Mrs H took out the policy showed that it was optional, and 
that a customer would need to agree to a policy before it was set up. And the mortgage offer 
details the existence of PPI and the monthly cost and benefit  and Mrs h wouldve needed 
to sign this in order for the mortgage to proceed.
In these situations, I have to decide what, on balance, I feel is more likely to be the case. 
And in the absence of any strong testimony or recollections from Mrs H about the purchase 
of the policy (which is entirely understandable), Im not persuaded that the policy wasnt  
presented as being optional, and that Mrs H wasnt given a choice about taking out the PPI.
Lloyds recommended the PPI. So it had to take adequate steps to make sure it was suitable 
for Mrs H. I dont know what the adviser said to Mrs H about PPI or whether Lloyds did take 
adequate steps. But I dont need to make a decision about this. Because even if Lloyds 
didnt take adequate steps, I think the PPI was suitable for her for the following reasons.
Mrs H met the PPIs requirements, so was eligible for it. And Ive set out the PPIs costs and 
main benefits above.Mrs H was working at the time and said she wouldve received some sick pay from her 
employer if she wasnt working. But nothing Ive seen suggests its likely she couldve paid 
the monthly mortgage and her other living costs once any work benefits had run out.
Also, the mortgage was over 23 years and the PPI wouldve paid the monthly mortgage 
costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top of any other cover she had. 
So I dont think Mrs Hs existing cover wouldve made the PPI unsuitable.
Nothing Mrs H told us suggested she needed to keep her costs down. And there wasnt 
anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Mrs H to claim. For example, she said she 
was in work and good health when the PPI was sold. So she wouldnt have been affected by 
things in it about unusual work or known health issues.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mrs H before she agreed 
to purchase it, even though it was in the mortgage offer. I dont know she was told it would 
cost £12.60 each month until after she received her mortgage offer. So for this reason I have 
considered whether clearer information about the cost wouldve affected her decision to 
purchase the policy. She had chosen to take out the policy, knowing she would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it 
unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable for Mrs H.
Lloyds needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. It 
hasnt told us anything that shows what was actually said to Mrs H about this. So I cant say 
its likely Lloyds did give Mrs H everything she needed to know before deciding to take PPI.
But did Mrs H lose out as a result - would she have taken the PPI if Lloyds had properly told 
her about it?
Ive explained why I think the PPI was suitable. Given her circumstances at the time I think 
Mrs H wouldve thought the PPI gave important cover to protect the repayments on her 
home  and as a sole mortgage  she was solely responsible for it. And I think she wouldve 
thought that its costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace of mind. So I dont think 
Mrs H lost out. Because I think she wouldve taken the PPI if shed been given enough 
proper information about it. And as this was a regular monthly premium policy, if Mrs H 
decided that the cost was unaffordable, or that she no longer wanted the policy, she couldve 
cancelled it without penalty.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman