DRN-2599561
The complaint
Miss K complains that Santander UK Plc closed her account and recorded a Credit Industry 
Fraud Awareness System (CIFAS) marker against her name. She feels the marker should 
be removed.
What happened
I sent Miss K and Santander a provisional decision on 13 January 2021 to explain why I 
wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out 
below:
The marker Halifax has filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a
misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to 
record a marker like this, Halifax isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss K 
is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than 
mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that either there was an
attempt to put fraudulent funds into Miss Ks account or fraudulent funds have entered
Miss Ks account, and were either moved on or retained. And secondly, the bank will need to
have strong evidence to show that Miss K was deliberately dishonest in receiving the
fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment.
This can include allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
Santander has sent us details of the information it received from the other bank about the 
fraud and where the funds for the payment of £520 had come from. And from this, Im 
satisfied the payment into Miss Ks current account was fraudulent funds.
When Santander initially asked Miss K about the payment, she said it must have been her 
wages. But she also said she doesnt usually get paid wages in that way and she couldnt 
provide a wage slip or any other evidence that she was entitled to the funds.
And Miss K later told our service she was expecting to be sent some money into her account 
as a gift as it was the festive season. But she hasnt given any further information about who 
the gift was supposed to be from or any evidence of that person sending her the money. And 
shes told us she doesnt know the person named in the reference of the payment.
While the payment credited her account more than two years ago now, and around eight 
months before Santander initially asked her about it, Im concerned by Miss Ks contradictory 
accounts of what the payment was for. There are significant differences in what shes said, 
from the payment being wages to a seasonal gift. Shes not explained why shes given 
different accounts. And she hasnt been able to provide any evidence to support either 
account when I think some evidence for them wouldnt be particularly hard to get, even now.
The statements for Miss Ks account also show the funds from the payment were moved into 
her savings account on the same day they were received, and then sent out of her savings 
account over the next few days. And these transactions wouldnt have been possible without 
the funds from the payment, as the balance of Miss Ks accounts wouldve been too low, 
which suggests Miss K was aware of the payment coming into her account.
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely Miss K was complicit in receiving the 
fraudulent funds. And so I think Santander has met the requirements to record the CIFAS 
marker and I wont be asking it to do remove it.
Ive also looked at whether Santander acted reasonably in closing Miss Ks account. 
Following its investigation, Santander wrote to Miss K saying it was withdrawing her banking 
facilities with immediate effect. And Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Ks 
account and Im satisfied they allow Santander to do this in these circumstances. So I think 
Santander did act reasonably in closing Miss Ks account.
I said Id consider anything further Miss K and Santander sent in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss K nor Santander sent in any further information. So I still think the conclusions I 
set out in my provisional decision are correct, for the same reasons. And I still dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman