DRN-1616526
The complaint
Miss Bs unhappy with the value Assurant General Insurance Limited have paid out on a 
claim for her laptop.
What happened
In July 2019 Miss B claimed on her insurance policy for damage to her laptop. The screen 
was broken, and the laptop wasnt keeping the charge.
Assurants claim notes record them asking for some evidence in July, and the laptop. The 
evidence was received promptly, but their records dont show the laptop as having been 
received until early September.
At this point Assurant reviewed it, decided it was beyond economical repair, and contacted 
Miss B to discuss a settlement amount. Assurant offered around £850 on the phone to 
Miss B. They explained theyd come to this figure after looking at replacements on an 
auction website using reputable sellers. But Miss B didnt agree with this, feeling that the 
auction website wasnt appropriate, as she strongly disagreed they were reputable sellers, 
so she complained. 
Assurant ultimately responded in writing and said they received the laptop on 
29 August 2019 and deemed the laptop beyond economical repair on 5 September 2019. 
Five days later, on 10 September 2019, they offered the cash settlement of around £850. 
They added that cash settlement prices are based on the current market value of the laptop 
sold from reputable UK sellers. They said this is in the terms and conditions of their policy  
and say the cash settlement offered has been done in line with this. So, they didnt uphold 
Miss Bs concerns.
Unhappy with that, Miss B asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so but 
felt Assurant had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms in the settlement offered. She 
also felt Assurant had made the cash settlement within a reasonable period of time, and 
Miss B hadnt complained about them destroying her laptop before the settlement offered.
Miss B replied and said she didnt think using an auction site where the goods could be of 
variable quality was appropriate to calculate the settlement. And she was unhappy with the 
delay in settlement, and that shed complained to Assurant about them destroying her laptop 
before she agreed to things. Because Miss B didnt agree, the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to fully answer this complaint, there are three separate issues Ill need to address:
Settlement offered for the laptop
Time taken to offer the settlement
Did Assurant act appropriately when destroying Miss Bs laptop
Settlement offered for the laptop
Generally Id expect an insurer, like Assurant, to set out how itll settle claims in Miss Bs 
situation  so Ive looked to see what the policy terms say.
These say that theyll either repair the device or provide a replacement. And they also say if 
theyre not able to replace a device with the same make and model, then theyll contact the 
policyholder to discuss an alternative claim settlement. 
Assurants engineers deemed it beyond economical repair, and they didnt have a suitable 
replacement in stock  so offered her a cash settlement.
Miss Bs key concern here is the value offered for that cash settlement, so Ive focused my 
thoughts on this point.
Assurant have offered Miss B £851.33, explaining theyve searched a well-known auction 
site, using sellers with a very high volume of sales, and a very high positive seller rating, to 
establish a fair price. 
Miss B though doesnt agree with this. She says that in order to get a replacement laptop of 
similar quality shed need £1,150 as a cash settlement  and shes provided evidence to 
show this from well-known high-street retailers. She also says using only one auction site 
and including models of laptops which are damaged or different, isnt an accurate 
representation. She also says theres no guarantee these laptops are genuine, or not made 
from counterfeit parts.
But Miss Bs policy doesnt provide cover for her to get a new version of her laptop  and 
the examples shes given are for new laptops. So, if Assurant can demonstrate shes able to 
purchase a replacement laptop, refurbished or new, for the value offered, then thats likely to 
be a fair settlement. 
Assurant have provided screen shots of the laptops they found. These show Miss B could 
get a refurbished laptop for the settlement offered. The models are broadly similar to the one 
Miss B had, and theres nothing to suggest theyre damaged beyond some cosmetic 
scratches  which isnt unreasonable with older technology. The sellers have thousands of 
positive ratings, so theres nothing to suggest the products theyre selling arent genuine, or 
that theyre using counterfeit parts as Miss B has suggested is possible.
Miss B in her initial conversations with Assurant made it very clear she didnt think the 
auction site sellers were reputable sellers. But Ive not seen anything to suggest its 
inappropriate for Assurant to use this auction site to determine a fair value in Miss Bs case.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied £851.33 is a fair settlement for Miss Bs 
laptop.
Time taken to offer settlement
Miss B has complained that it took Assurant a long time to settle the complaint  so Ive 
looked at the timeline of events.
Assurant have recorded that on 7 July Miss B logged her claim, they accepted it on 16 July, 
and asked Miss B for further evidence and her laptop to be sent. Miss B provided the further 
information promptly, but it seems she didnt send the laptop until the end of August. Assurants claim notes record it as received on 5 September, and they contacted her on 
10 September. Ive noted Assurants claim form says theyll contact Miss B within two 
working days, and its disappointing they didnt. But as Miss B took around six weeks to send 
the laptop to them, I dont think Assurant taking an additional three days to look into things 
has unreasonably delayed the settlement of the claim.
Did Assurant act appropriately when destroying Miss Bs laptop
Miss B has said Assurant destroyed her laptop before telling her about the outcome. 
Assurant say Miss B accepted it couldnt be returned to her partially repaired.
So, Ive listened to the phone calls Miss B had with Assurant, to understand what happened.
Having listened to the calls Ive been provided with, I do think Assurant could have been 
clearer in what was going to happen on those calls. But I also think Assurant were always 
going to take possession of the laptop once itd been sent to them  as they couldnt repair 
or replace it. Theyve also explained they couldnt return it  and as they were offering a 
cash settlement to fulfil their obligations under the insurance policy, I dont think this is 
unreasonable.
Because of this, I cant reasonably say Miss B has lost out as a result of what happened.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman