DRN-3336661
The complaint
Miss M complains that Mobile Money Limited (Mobile Money) didnt assist her when she 
told it she was in financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss M entered into an agreement with Mobile Money to borrow £500 under a logbook loan 
in May 2019. This loan was due to be repaid over 18 monthly repayments of £78.80. A 
couple of months after taking out the agreement, Miss M fell into payment difficulties and she 
stopped making payments towards her agreement from November 2019.
In January 2020, Miss M complained to Mobile Money and said at the time she took out the 
logbook loan, the agent falsified her income and expenditure. She also said she fell into 
financial difficulties because the car failed its MOT and she couldnt afford to have it 
repaired. She said when she called Mobile Money to let it know the agent was unhelpful and 
didnt assist her. She also said Mobile Money reported a default to her account without 
giving her a chance.
Mobile Money looked into Miss Ms complaint and said when Miss M had contacted it, she 
didnt mention any financial difficulties. It said it had terminated the account correctly and 
Miss M owed the outstanding balance. Unhappy with this, Miss M referred her complaint to 
this service. 
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but he didnt uphold her 
complaint. He said:
Mobile Money had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when deciding to 
lend to Miss M. 
he didnt think Mobile Money had falsified Miss Ms income and expenditure. 
he wasnt provided with any supporting information to show that Miss M had told 
Mobile Money she was suffering from financial difficulties. 
when Miss M contact Mobile Money to tell it the car had failed its MOT and she 
wanted to sell it, Mobile Money were correct to tell her shed need to pay the 
outstanding balance as per the terms and conditions of her agreement
he thought Mobile Money had correctly defaulted Miss Ms account. 
Miss M disagreed and said she told Mobile Money to collect the car because of her financial 
situation. But it didnt agree to do this. She also said it defaulted her after she had only 
missed two payments and she didnt think this was fair. 
As Miss M remains in disagreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Miss M has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ms complaint.
Mobile Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Mobile Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether any lending was affordable for Miss M before providing it. 
In this case, I think there are two overarching questions that I need to answer in order to 
fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ms complaint. These two questions are: 
1. Did Mobile Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss M would be able to repay her loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences? 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss M wouldve been able to do 
so? 
2. Did Mobile Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Mobile Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M 
would be able to repay her loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Miss Ms case.
In this case, Mobile Money has demonstrated the checks it carried out by providing us with 
the information it obtained from Miss M before deciding to lend. These checks included 
obtaining two months payslips from Miss M and carrying out an income and expenditure 
with her. In this case, I think the checks Mobile Money carried out were proportionate. 
Ive gone on to consider whether I think based on this information Mobile Money made a fair 
lending decision.
Having reviewed the information Mobile Money obtained, I think that the information 
obtained did demonstrate that Miss M would be able to make the payments to her loan 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences. In fact, Ive also listened to a copy 
of a call recording in which Mobile Money carried out an in-depth review of Miss Ms income 
and outgoings. During this call, Mobile Money queried the information on Miss Ms payslips 
and the expenditure she had told it about. Some of the figures Miss M mentioned for 
expenditure were low. Where these expenditure figures warranted further questioning, 
Mobile Money queried these figures and it increased them. After it had done this, it found 
Miss M still had enough disposable income to be able to make the repayments under the 
agreement.Having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied Mobile Money carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks when lending to Miss M. And I dont think there was anything in 
the information it obtained to suggest Miss M wouldnt be able to make the repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences. So I think it made a fair lending 
decision.
Did Mobile Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about what Miss M has said about the Mobile Money agent falsifying some of 
the information she provided it, before it made its decision to lend to her. However, Mobile 
Money made its lending decision during the phone call conversation it had with Miss M to 
discuss her income and expenditure. The figures it obtained from this phone call about   
Miss Ms income and outgoings, match the figures on the income and expenditure document 
it has provided our service. So Ive not seen anything at all here to persuade me that an 
agent of Mobile Money falsified Miss Ms income and expenditure. On the contrary, it seems 
to me that Mobile Money took steps to double check the information it was provided with 
before relying upon it. 
That said, Ive gone on to consider Miss Ms complaint about Mobile Moneys response to 
her financial difficulties and whether it was fair for Miss M to report a default to credit 
reference agencies. 
From the account statements, I can see that Miss M made the repayments owed under the 
agreement for around five months. In September 2019, Miss M called Mobile Money to ask 
how much it would cost to settle her agreement as she wanted to sell her car and couldnt 
afford to keep it. Mobile Money explained that she would need to use the funds to reduce the 
outstanding balance owed to it and pay any amount outstanding on top of this. But Miss M 
said she wanted to use the proceeds of the car to pay other bills. So she said she would 
continue to make repayments under the agreement. She did this, but the last payment she 
made under the agreement was on 31 October 2019. 
Having considered all this information, I can see that Mobile Money tried to contact Miss M 
to discuss her account daily after she missed a repayment under the agreement. At this 
point, Mobile Money only had limited information about Miss Ms financial circumstances. 
Miss M had only told it her car had failed its MOT and she wanted to sell it. But even after 
this, she continued to make repayments under agreement like she said she would. So I dont 
think it had any reason to think Miss M was in financial difficulties at this point. I also 
appreciate Miss M says Mobile Money was unhelpful when she says she called it about her 
financial difficulties, but Mobile Money has no records of this call. And Miss M hasnt 
provided any further supporting information to show otherwise. So I dont think Mobile Money 
needs to do anything further here.
Having said this, Id like to remind Mobile Money of its obligations to treat Miss M with 
forbearance and due consideration if she is currently in financial difficulties.
I now turn to whether I think it was fair for Mobile Money to default Miss Ms account. 
In its Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says a business can 
register a default after a customer is behind with their payments for three months. And that it 
expects businesses to register a default by the time a customer is six months behind with 
their payments. I consider this to be representative of good industry practice. And as a 
minimum would expect a lender to act in accordance with these principles when deciding 
whether to default a consumers account. So Ive kept this in mind when deciding whether 
Mobile Money acted fairly and reasonably in relation to this matter.
Its worth noting that, Miss Ms account was defaulted after two missed payments. So there 
is an argument for saying that Mobile Money defaulted the account prematurely. Having said 
that, Miss M hasnt made any payments towards the account since October 2019 and in June 2020, collection of the amount owing was placed on hold pending the outcome this 
complaint. So even if there is an argument for saying that the default was applied 
prematurely, as Miss M didnt make any further repayments towards the agreement, I think 
that the account would more likely than not defaulted by the end of February 2020 at the 
latest, instead of in early January 2020.
In any event, Im also mindful that the ICO Principles also say that there are other 
circumstances which may lead to the recording of a default earlier than three months. One of 
these is where, The account is in arrears and the provider receives an indication that you 
have left your address without notifying them.
Having thought about the dates here and the account activity, I dont think that it was unfair 
or unreasonable for Mobile Money to report a default to credit reference agencies when it 
did. This is because even though the account was only around two months in arrears when it 
filed a default, it couldnt contact Miss M. And it carried out a trace to obtain details for     
Miss M as the phone number it had wouldnt connect. From this, it didnt appear that Miss M 
intended to make any further repayments towards the account. And as the account was in 
arrears and Mobile Money didnt have a contact number for Miss M, I think it was fair for it to 
default the account. In addition, asking Mobile Money to amend or even remove the default, 
when it seems unlikely Miss M will be able to repay this debt in line with the initial 
arrangements, would arguably be counterproductive and not in Miss Ms interests or that of 
any future lender. 
So overall, having considered everything thats happened, I think it was fair for Mobile 
Money to register that the account had defaulted in early January 2020.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman