The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc cancelled his car insurance policy 
and that he now owes money to cover the cost of the cancellation and premiums. 
The complaint has been brought to us by Mr Rs father but for ease Ill refer to both 
their actions as that of Mr R's son. 
What happened
On 19 May 2019 Mr R took out a car insurance policy with RSA online through a price 
comparison website. Mr R agreed to have a telematics box fitted to the vehicle as a part of 
the policy and paid a portion of his premium upfront - £379.03. 
On 20 May 2019 RSA says it sent an e-mail with a copy of the terms and conditions. It also 
asked Mr R to provide a bit more information in order to validate the policy. Mr R says he 
didn't receive this information so he couldn't provide it. RSA says it sent a further request on 
4 June 2019 telling Mr R the information needed to be provided by 11 June 2019 or the 
policy would be cancelled. Mr R again says this information wasnt received. 
On 11 June a text message  which Mr R said he did receive  was sent asking for 
information to be provided otherwise the policy would be cancelled. Mr R also said he sent 
the required information via the online portal. 
RSA said the information hadnt been received on 12 June 2019 so it cancelled the policy. It 
says the cancellation of the policy was confirmed by e-mail. Mr R says this also wasnt 
received so he continued to use the car without having insurance. 
RSA reviewed the policy and felt it was owed £28.96 for cancellation (27% of the £844.40 
annual premium) and arrangement fees (£30) and the cost of setting up the telematics box 
(£150). So it wrote to Mr R asking for this amount. 
When Mr R received the request for the £28.96 he called RSA to find out what had 
happened. Following this he made a complaint. He felt he doesn't owe RSA anything 
because he hadnt received the terms and conditions. And the only communication he 
received from RSA was the text message on 11 June. RSA reviewed the complaint and 
issued its final response  dated 12 July 2019. It explained it hadnt done anything wrong 
and Mr R had agreed to the policy and the above cancellation fees so it was entitled to 
request the outstanding £28.96 from Mr R. 
Mr R remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
reviewed the complaint but decided not to uphold it. He told Mr R that he was satisfied RSA 
had sent the terms and conditions and the subsequent reminders asking for the outstanding 
DRN-1045010information. He was also satisfied the fees RSA had applied to the policy were fair because 
Mr R agreed to them when the policy was sold so he was liable for the outstanding £28.96. 
Mr R disagreed. He felt the cancellation fees and charges werent fair and finding out he had 
been driving without insurance had caused him stress. He would like the premium he paid 
up front returned and the outstanding £28.96 to be written off. So this complaint has now 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr R feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
I need to consider whether RSA sent the policy documentation and the requests for the 
further information to decide if it has treated Mr R fairly when cancelling this policy. If it has 
then Ill need to review whether the fees it has charged are fair and reasonable. 
Im in no doubt that Mr R discovering he had been driving without insurance would have 
caused him distress. But RSA has provided copies of screenshots showing it sent the terms 
and conditions to Mr R when the policy started. Within these it says it asked for further 
information in order to validate the policy. Ive also seen evidence of RSA chasing this 
information before the policy was cancelled. Although Mr R says he didnt receive these, I 
only need to be satisfied this information was sent. Ive checked the information RSA holds 
on record for Mr R and it has the correct e-mail, postal address and mobile phone number. 
The screen shot also says it sent information to him asking for the outstanding information 
and the cancellation of the policy. 
Mr R says he only received a text message and sent the information that was requested in 
the message. RSA says this wasnt received. Ive thought carefully about this. Having done 
so, I agree with the investigator that  on balance  its unlikely Mr R provided the necessary 
information. RSA says it checked to see if this had been provided on 12 June and there was 
nothing on its system. So Im satisfied the policy was cancelled fairly because RSA had 
attempted to get in contact with Mr R using various communication methods to get the 
outstanding information and it had explained what would happen if this wasnt provided. 
Ive also considered whether the cancellation fees have been applied fairly here. When 
taking out the policy, Mr R would have had to tick to say he had read the terms and 
conditions of the policy. The relevant fees can be found within these. So even though he 
says he didnt receive the documents after he took out the policy Im satisfied he shouldve 
been reasonably aware of them. 
Having reviewed the documents, I believe the fees are displayed clearly. And I can see that 
the cancellation of a policy within the first month will lead to RSA keeping 27% of the annual 
premium (£227.99). So Im satisfied this has been applied fairly here. RSA has said the fee to fit the telematics device and the arrangement fee is non-refundable. 
I dont believe thats unreasonable as the device needs to be fitted manually to the car which 
involves a cost to RSA. The £30 arrangement fee is also not unreasonable given that there 
is a small admin cost in setting up the policy due to it being taken out through a price 
comparison website. So the telematics and arrangement fee plus the charge for the time  
Mr R was covered by the policy totals £407.99. As he initially paid £379.03, RSA has fairly 
asked for Mr R to pay the remaining arrears of £28.96. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R 
(policyholder) to accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2019.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman