DRN-1645712
The complaint
Mr S complains that esure Insurance Limited cancelled his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
In July 2018, Mr S applied for a motor insurance policy with esure through a price 
comparison site.
At the time, Mr S was a hot food delivery driver  and he used his vehicle for work. He says 
he already had an insurance policy to cover his vehicle while he was working  and so 
wanted separate cover for social use and when he was travelling to and from work.
While the policy was active, Mr S was in an accident while working. He contacted esure to 
let them know he was covered through his work policy. But shortly before the policy was due 
to renew, Mr S contacted esure to check this wouldnt affect his no-claims discount. At that 
point, the person Mr S spoke to questioned whether he should be covered if he was using 
his car for work purposes  and referred this to one of esures underwriters. esure then told 
Mr S that it wouldnt have covered him to begin with had it known he used his vehicle for hot 
food delivery  and cancelled the policy.
Mr S then brought the complaint to us.
An investigator looked at the complaint  and didnt think what esure had done was fair. She 
recommended that esure remove the cancellation from Mr Ss record and should write to 
Mr Ss new insurer to explain what it had done. She also recommended that esure pay Mr S 
£300 for the trouble and upset it had caused.
esure agreed to do this. It said that it hadnt in fact recorded the cancellation on any external 
databases  and agreed to pay Mr S the compensation. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said that:
as his new car insurance was more expensive than the insurance esure had 
cancelled, hed started using a motorbike, and then later a moped provided by his 
employer;
as he was using a moped, he had to reduce his hours, because he couldnt work in 
bad weather;
he was injured while using the moped, reducing his hours further;
all of this meant his income reduced considerably. It affected his mental health. It 
also meant he had difficulties repaying his debts.
He doesnt think any of this would have happened had esure not cancelled the policy.
The investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, so the complaint was referred to me.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 23 March 2021. I explained that, based 
on what Id seen, I thought it was fair for esure to cancel Mr Ss policy.
I said Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Id also taken into account relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and what I 
considered to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law was the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer had to show that it would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying representation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
In Mr Ss case, esure says that when he submitted his application through the price  
comparison site, he was asked what he used the car for. Mr S said he was using the car for 
social and commuting. But he was in fact also using the car when he delivered hot food.
esure had sent me a copy of the screen Mr S would have seen at the time he applied for the 
policy. I noted that this section of the form had the heading Car usage. Beneath this 
appeared the question What do you use the car for?. The options Social only, Social & 
commuting and business use by you were shown beneath this. There was also a box 
labelled More which would have offered the options Business use by you & spouse, 
Business use for all drivers, Business use by spouse and Commercial travelling.
I saw there was also a button Mr S could press to show guidance on how to complete this 
section of the form. I cant say whether Mr S would have read this guidance  but noted that 
it said that:
Social and commuting covers everyday driving, and also covers your commute to a 
permanent place of work
Business use covers all of the above, plus business driving away from the normal 
place of work
Commercial travelling cover may also be needed if driving is a permanent aspect of 
your job, and you are selling goods or services. If this is the case, select More and 
choose this option.
Based on all the above, I thought that:
The question on the price comparison site asked Mr S what he used his vehicle for. It 
wasnt asking him what he wanted to cover his vehicle for.
Mr S used his vehicle while working. So although he said he used the vehicle for 
social & commuting, that was incorrect. Given the options Mr S was offered, and 
given the guidance notes accessible for this part of the form, I thought Mr S should reasonably have said he used his vehicle for business use.
For these reasons, I found that Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
I was also satisfied that if esure had known the true position, it wouldnt have offered Mr S 
cover at all. It had provided evidence showing it would have declined to cover Mr S if it had 
known he used the vehicle for business purposes as a hot food delivery driver. And although 
I recognised that Mr S had said he wasnt looking for business cover as he already had 
cover for this through work, esure had confirmed it wouldnt have been willing to offer Mr S 
any cover even if Mr S had cover for his business use elsewhere either as this other cover 
might have been invalid or lapsed without Mr Ss knowledge.
I was satisfied Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, and I 
was satisfied that esure would have acted differently had Mr S not made the 
misrepresentation he did. Therefore I was satisfied that Mr Ss misrepresentation counted as 
a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Id gone on to think about whether this misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless. Mr S had said he was told by his employer that he was insured while working so he 
only needed social and commuting cover. So I could perhaps understand why he may have 
answered the questions as he did. He saw an option reflecting the type of cover he wanted -  
and he selected that option. Although the information was wrong, I wasnt satisfied Mr S did 
this deliberately  and I noted that Mr S in fact contacted esure while the policy was active to 
let them know hed had an accident in his car while working. I thought he was careless.
As I was satisfied that Mr Ss misrepresentation should be treated as careless, I went on to 
consider the actions esure could take in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA says that where the qualifying misrepresentation was careless, esure may avoid the 
contract  treat it as if it never existed  but must return any premiums paid back to Mr S. 
But CIDRA also said esure can still cancel Mr Ss policy as long as it has a contractual right 
to do so. 
Id looked at what esure had done. It cancelled the policy from the date it says it discovered 
the misrepresentation  which was around a week before the policy was due to be renewed. 
esure said it hadnt recorded the cancellation on any central databases. And it has now 
agreed to pay Mr S £300 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Id looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. I saw this allowed esure to cancel the 
policy at any time by giving Mr S seven days notice in writing. The policy terms and 
conditions went on to say that this included where Mr S provided false or inaccurate 
information when buying the policy  or if he wants to use his car for a purpose not listed in 
his schedule. And so I was satisfied that the policy terms allowed esure to terminate the 
contract.
That said, it didnt look as though esure gave Mr S seven days notice  the policy was 
cancelled immediately. This meant Mr S needed to arrange new insurance at short notice, 
which was inconvenient as he needed to use the vehicle for his employment. In the 
circumstances, I thought the £300 the investigator recommended for the trouble and upset 
this caused was appropriate. I was mindful in particular that esure might have spotted this 
earlier  Mr S told them he was using his vehicle for work when he called them about his 
claim in December 2018.
I went on to consider the points Mr S had raised about the further losses he says he suffered following the cancellation. I had every sympathy with Mr S and didnt doubt hed had a 
difficult time. But I didnt think it would be fair to say the things that happened were as a 
result of what esure did.
I said this because if things had happened as they should have done, esure wouldnt have 
offered Mr S the policy at all. They didnt cover vehicles used for hot food delivery. So if 
things hadnt gone wrong, Im not persuaded Mr S would have ended up in a better position.
I was also mindful that this all came to light just over a week before the policy was due to be 
renewed. So I didnt think it would have been unreasonable for esure to have ended to cover 
at that point, given it knew what the vehicle was being used for.
So while I recognised that Mr S felt that esure was responsible for what happened to him 
later, I wasnt persuaded this was caused by something esure did wrong.
For these reasons, I didnt think it was unfair for esure to cancel Mr Ss policy. It had 
confirmed it hadnt added details of the cancellation to external databases, and had paid Mr 
S £300 for the trouble and upset it had caused. So I said that subject to anything else Mr S 
or esure sent me, my final decision would make no further award.
esure has confirmed that it has received the provisional decision and awaits the final 
decision. It hasnt sent me anything further to consider.  Mr S hasnt sent me anything further 
to consider.
Ive therefore reviewed the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither esure nor Mr S have sent me anything further to consider following my provisional 
decision. I therefore reach the same findings for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that it was fair for esure Insurance Limited to 
cancel Mr Ss policy. I understand it has paid Mr S £300 for the trouble and upset caused. I 
make no further award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman