DRN-3860004
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains through their director Mr K about poor service they received 
from True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM) when transferring their investment 
portfolio to TPWM from another business.
What happened
R wanted to move their general investment account from another business (B1) to TPWM. 
Mr K spoke to a representative of TPWM who accidentally set the transfer process to start 
on 18 March 2020. TPWM called Mr K and explained the error and queried what Mr K 
wanted them to do. It was decided that the transfer should be allowed to go ahead as Mr K 
wanted to mitigate any additional costs that might be incurred by rebuying any holdings that 
had been transferred.
TPWM advised Mr K that R would be compensated for any potential loss of growth caused 
by the error. Unfortunately, there was a further error, TPWM had sent B1 a message asking 
for the transfer to be paused. The transfer was eventually completed on 20 April 2020 after 
TPWM discovered the error and restarted the transfer process. 
After a few months of discussion, TPWM paid R £24,530 in compensation. They calculated 
that this covered the loss in growth of the portfolio if it had been transferred on 18 March 
2020. Mr K didnt think that the compensation was sufficient as R had also incurred 
additional costs such as accountancy fees, capital gains tax (CGT), costs for his time spent 
looking into the matter and additional lost growth on the portfolio. He thought that R was due 
additional compensation of c.£11,100. 
TPWM didnt think additional compensation was due to R so the complaint was brought to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator looked into 
the concerns that had been raised but wasnt persuaded that TPWM needed to do anything 
else to resolve the complaint. He thought that TPWM had given Mr K the option of switching 
back after the error had been made but hed chosen to proceed due to concerns about 
capital gains liability.
The investigator thought that there wouldnt have been any CGT issues as any buyback of 
holdings would have taken place within 30 days of the initial sale. He appreciated that Mr K 
believed the transfer should have taken place on 20 April 2020, but he didnt think there was 
anything to suggest that the intention was that the transfer would have taken place then. 
Mr K didnt agree and said, in summary: 
R remained far from the position they would have been in if TPWM hadnt made 
multiple mistakes. He hadnt agreed for the funds to be transferred on 19 March. 
Instead, his instruction was to pause any transfer while he waited on the return of 
market stability at which point he would have decided whether or not to proceed. 
Hed wanted to stop any transfer back in order to mitigate the tax and accountancy 
costs that would arise from rebuying holdings within B1.
The approach to compensation wasnt correct as the funds wouldnt have been with 
TPWM between 19 March and 20 April. Instead, they would have still been with B1 
so the compensation should be calculated on that basis. This was evidenced by the 
call he had with TPWM on 19 March and the subsequent correspondence. 
He disagreed that any CGT would have been incurred if errors hadnt been made. 
The CGT incurred was caused by the error and TPWM werent aware of any plans 
that were in place to mitigate Rs potential tax liability. 
He was aware of this 30-day allowance regarding CGT. But because of the errors R 
was out of the market from 19 March to 20 April - at least 32 days. Therefore, the 
additional costs would still have arisen. 
The investigator didnt change his opinion so the complaint was passed to me to make a 
decision. I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
TPWM have accepted that they made an error in starting the transfer of Rs holdings before 
they should have. Therefore, my role is to determine if the compensation theyve offered R is 
fair and reasonable. Having done so, I dont think it is and I will now explain why. 
Mr K sent TPWM a secure message on 18 March 2020. He said that given the recent falls in 
the market he was thinking of pausing the transfer. He then spoke to a representative of 
TPWM who explained that the transfer had been started in error. The representative offered 
the option of reversing the process, but Mr K agreed for the transfer to go ahead in order to 
avoid any potential complex tax issues. So, while I appreciate what Mr K has said about 
pausing the transfer and waiting for market stability, Im persuaded that the available 
evidence shows that he was happy to start the transfer after he spoke to TPWM. 
However, during the call Mr K expressed concerns at Rs holdings being held in cash during 
the transfer and potentially missing out on any gains. The representative agreed that R 
would be covered for any loss in growth caused by the transfer being made early. TPWM 
have calculated the loss based on how much the portfolio would have grown under their 
management as opposed to the growth if it had remained with B1. 
Ive reviewed the secure messages sent and I can see that the representative said:
But once the transfer is complete I will check with B1 what the cost of being out of 
the market during this period is, if it turns out that you have missed out on some 
growth during this period. Then True Potential will cover this loss, so either way you 
wont your funds wont suffer for being out of the market during this period. 
We will have to wait until its invested to get the growth figures from B1 to check to 
see the performance over that period. Obviously if the performance figures are 
positive then you are due a reimbursement.
I think that the implication in the call and the subsequent secure messages between Mr K 
and the representative was that the compensation figure would be calculated based on 
potential growth with B1 not TPWM. Therefore, I agree with Mr K and think that TPWM 
should compensate R based on how much the portfolio would have grown with B1, not how 
much it would have grown under their management, as this was what Mr K was promised. 
They should also calculate how much this figure would have subsequently grown by to 
ensure that R hasnt lost out. Ive then considered if TPWM should cover the accountants fees and CGT costs that R 
incurred. Ive noted Mr Ks comments, but I think that the fees would have been incurred 
regardless of the errors that TPWM made. I say this because even though Mr Ks intention 
was to pause the transfer, hes said that he would have proceeded once the market volatility 
had subsided. At this point the transfer would have gone ahead and R would have then 
incurred the CGT and accountants fees. So, because these costs would have been due 
irrespective of the errors, I dont think I can fairly ask TPWM to compensate R for them. 
Ive also considered Mr Ks request to be compensated based on his hourly rate for the time 
hes spent trying to resolve the matter. But I can only compensate the eligible complainant 
who in this case is R and look at the inconvenience theyve suffered because of TPWMs 
actions.
I think its a reasonable expectation that someone will have to spend some time and effort in 
running a business. But its clear from his submissions that Mr K has spent a considerable 
amount of time dealing with Rs complaint which would undoubtedly have diverted his 
attention away from the running of the business. Therefore, I think R has been 
inconvenienced and I dont think the £250 compensation offered by TPWM is sufficient. 
Having considered everything, I think that compensation of £500 would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
In order to put things right TPWM should: 
Calculate A - B = C where 
A = how much Rs portfolio would have grown if it had been with B1 between 19 March 2020 
and 20 April 2020. 
B = how much Rs portfolio would have grown if it had been with TPWM between 19 March 
2020 and 20 April 2020. 
If C is a positive sum then the figure should be paid to R. TPWM should also calculate the 
growth on C from 20 April 2020 to date and pay that figure to R less any compensation 
theyve already paid for growth during that time. 
They should also pay R an additional £250 for the inconvenience theyve suffered due to the 
error.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr K responded and said, in summary:
The transfer was started by TPWM, and he accepted this provided that R received 
compensation in accordance with what TPWM had said as opposed to initiating a 
transfer back, with all the additional indicated costs that would incur.
He reiterated that his intention was that the funds stayed with B1 given the ongoing 
market instability at the time. Therefore, the accountant's fees and CGT costs 
wouldnt have been incurred.
R, as the eligible complainant, had been inconvenienced by the need to divert his 
attention away from the running of the company. The compensation for 
inconvenience of £500, while appreciated, fell short of the £4,608 hed calculated using Rs usual chargeout rate of £50 per hour plus VAT. 
He requested that any compensation for inconvenience and fees be adjusted to 
include standard commercial statutory interest between date of incurring, and date 
of reimbursement.
He requested £100 debt recovery costs, separate from the time incurred in compiling 
our responses.
Regarding the A - B = C calculation, he remained of the view that the figures were 
£24,048.85 - £21,128.37 = £2,920.48.
He noted that the remaining out of pocket costs had grown since the interim payment 
from TPWM. Including lost growth on remaining outstanding monies, and the other 
items hed outlined within his submissions.
TPWM responded and said, in summary:
They agreed with the comments in respect of the CGT liability and accountants 
costs. They didnt object to increasing the additional compensation from £250 to 
£500.
They were however concerned that the proposed resolution placed R in a better 
position than they would have been had the error not occurred. The reason for this 
was twofold - one being the time period over which compensation was calculated and 
the second being the performance comparison required.
Mr K agreed to the transfer on 19 March 2020 and didnt complain about the error. 
The transfer proceeded on 7 April, with funds invested on 20 April. The transfer and 
investment process took eight working days, accounting for two bank holidays. 
Disregarding the error, for the transfer to proceed, there would always have been a 
period the funds were out of the market to enable the sale, transfer of funds and re-
investment. Therefore, Rs losses should be based on the additional period out of the 
market. If the transfer proceeded correctly on 19 March 2020, it would have settled 
eight working days later. The funds would then have been invested in their portfolio, 
hence their calculation being based on the performance of their product not the B1 
product.
To reach a satisfactory conclusion and given what was said on the call with Mr K, 
theyd made a generous offer that covered the losses for the entire period out of the 
market based on the performance of their funds. This was more than fair as it meant 
R had been compensated for the full time out of the market. Had Mr K declined the 
option to transfer, theyd agree that compensation should be based on the entire 
period from 19 March 2020 to 20 April 2020 based on the B1 portfolio performance, 
but that wasnt what happened. 
Mr K appeared to have stated that the CGT could not be mitigated through a buyback 
within 30 days, noting that he was out of the market for 32 days. Had he declined the 
transfer, TPWM would have contacted B1 that day requesting that the transfer was 
cancelled and the same units purchased, which would have removed any CGT 
liability.
They also noted that Mr K had repeated his belief that he would have delayed his 
transfer until markets were more stable. Given markets generally rose for almost two 
years from March 2020, if hed delayed the transfer to some later point in that two year window then the likelihood is that R would have suffered some market losses 
when the transfer was actually instructed, as it would have been in cash for eight 
working days when the transfer took place  this again supported their belief that the 
proposed compensation placed R in a better position than they would have been had 
the error not occurred, which wasnt the aim of the redress process.
They acknowledged that the secure messages sent to Mr K referenced contacting B1 
to calculate losses, however this was a misunderstanding and was based on the 
assumption that the transfer would proceed on a normal transfer timescale, i.e. not 
considering the second error where an incorrect message was sent to B1.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the complaint, taking into account the comments by both parties, Im 
not persuaded to depart from the outcome in my provisional decision and I will now explain 
why. 
I dont think I should depart from the redress methodology Ive previously proposed. While I 
note what TPWM have said about their representatives comments being a 
misunderstanding, they made an error and gave Mr K assurances on how they would put it 
right. I think it is therefore fair that TPWM compensates R based on what they said as this 
was part of the reason why Mr K chose to proceed with the transfer at the time. 
I accept that the portfolio would have been out of the market for a period of time, but Mr K 
specifically raised concerns about Rs portfolio being out of the market and was told But 
once the transfer is complete I will check with B1 what the cost of being out of the market 
during this period is, if it turns out that you have missed out on some growth during this 
period. Then True Potential will cover this loss, so either way you wont your funds wont 
suffer for being out of the market during this period. 
I appreciate that the adviser didnt envisage that a further error would occur and delay the 
transfer. However, it did occur, and it doesnt seem fair to penalise R for an error that wasnt 
their fault. It therefore follows that TPWM should adhere to what they agreed and 
compensate R based on the growth of the portfolio had it remained with B1 between 19 
March 2020 and 20 April 2020.
Ive also thought about what Mr K has said regarding the compensation for CGT, fees and 
inconvenience. Im not persuaded that the CGT and accountants fees wouldnt have been 
incurred. Despite what Mr K has said about the transfer not going ahead because of the 
market instability - I still think that the intention was that the transfer would go ahead at some 
point and therefore the CGT and accountants fees wouldve been incurred. I think this is 
evidenced by the language used in the message he sent TPWM where he said ..Im thinking 
given the recent enormous falls in investment values of pausing making any further transfer 
from B1 to True Potential.
Ive also considered Mr Ks comments about the compensation for inconvenience but our 
awards for inconvenience are typically modest and arent usually based on an hourly rate. 
As Ive previously said, its a reasonable expectation that someone will have to spend some 
time and effort in running a business. In this instance, Im satisfied the award Ive proposed 
reflects the considerable time Mr K has spent dealing with the matter. 
We dont usually award interest on top of compensation awards - we only do so where a complainant has been deprived of money - and I see no reason to do so in this instance. 
And because Im satisfied that the £500 award fairly compensates R for the inconvenience 
theyve suffered in trying to resolve this complaint, I dont think I should make an award for 
debt recovery costs. 
In summary, Im satisfied with the outcome I reached in my provisional decision and my 
decision is that TPWM should award redress as detailed below.
Putting things right
In order to put things right TPWM should: 
Calculate A - B = C where 
A = how much Rs portfolio would have grown if it had been with B1 between 19 March 2020 
and 20 April 2020. 
B = how much Rs portfolio would have grown if it had been with TPWM between 19 March 
2020 and 20 April 2020. 
If C is a positive sum then the figure should be paid to R. TPWM should also calculate the 
growth on C from 20 April 2020 to date and pay that figure to R less any compensation 
theyve already paid for growth during that time. 
They should also pay R an additional £250 for the inconvenience theyve suffered due to the 
error.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, True Potential Wealth Management LLP 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman