DRN-3546335
The complaint
Mrs T complains that a car supplied to her by Hyundai Capital UK Ltd (trading as Hyundai 
Finance) was misrepresented to her. 
What happened
In September 2021 Mrs T entered into a conditional sale agreement with Hyundai for a new 
plug-in hybrid car. She says her decision was heavily influenced by information shed seen 
on the manufacturers website about the cars ability to "Go electric at the push of a button.  
Mrs T says she chose this car to try to achieve the maximum amount of travel using electric 
power. She says she told the dealer shed be charging the vehicle using free electricity 
generated by solar panels on her home  so she expected so there be no cost for her 
frequent short journeys.
But Mrs T was disappointed to find that, even in all-electric mode, the internal combustion 
engine (ICE) runs frequently. She says this often happens within a few hundred yards of the 
journey starting, when the battery is fully charged. 
Mrs T took the car back to the dealer for testing. But the dealer said it was running as it 
should. They said the ICE was coming on to support other functions, such as heating and 
de-misting. 
Mrs T complained to Hyundai that the car had been misdescribed and mis-sold to her. But 
Hyundai didnt agree. They said the dealer had confirmed there isnt a fault with the way the 
car is performing  and that it would complete the desired consumption in the ideal 
circumstances if the heating wasnt set as high. They said the manufacturers website stated: 
These figures may not reflect real life driving results, which will depend upon a number of 
factors including the accessories fitted (post registration), variations in weather, driving 
styles and vehicle load. 
Our investigator made Mrs T aware of an offer from the dealer to buy back the vehicle at the 
current market value. Mrs T rejected this. She felt the car operated more as a normal hybrid, 
so Hyundai should refund the difference in the price shed paid for this plug-in version. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. He said he didnt have any evidence to 
suggest theres a fault with the car - and he hadnt seen anything on Hyundais website or in 
the information Mrs T had been provided that persuaded him the car had been 
misrepresented. 
The investigator thought the paragraph Hyundai had referenced on the manufacturers 
website should be taken to relate to the overall performance and efficiency of the car, as well 
as its emissions. He felt it was reasonable to conclude the factors quoted (including 
variations in weather and driving styles) also apply to the operation of the electric-only mode 
- and that use of features that use electricity such as the heater would drain the battery 
quickly, or require additional power from the ICE. 
Mrs T said her complaint wasnt that the car was faulty  or about its emissions  but that 
that its operating characteristics had been misrepresented. 
Mrs T said Hyundais website contained statements that were untrue, ambiguous, and 
misleading. She thought the apparent requirement for the ICE to run when the air 
conditioning is set to a particular temperature should have been explained. She said shed 
provided fuel consumption figures to show the car doesnt in fact run in all-electric mode.
Mrs T said Hyundais offer to buy the car back at current market value would leave her at a 
financial loss  and wouldnt compensate her for the trouble shed been caused. She asked 
for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ts complaint is about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into Mrs Ts concerns about Hyundai. 
Mrs T complains that the car was misrepresented to her. For me to uphold this complaint Id 
need to be satisfied that a false statement of fact was made - and that this led Mrs T to enter 
into the agreement for the car. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says a lender like Hyundai may be liable 
for whats said in pre-contract discussions, like the ones Mrs T had with the dealer before 
she signed the agreement.
Mrs T feels strongly that the manufacturers website suggests the car wont use the ICE until 
the electric capacity has been completely drained. Shes quoted a section of the website 
which says: 
"Go electric at the push of a button. Once the all-electric mode is depleted the vehicle can 
continue on automatically in hybrid mode". 
Ive considered what Mrs T has said here. But I dont find this to state or imply that the hybrid 
drive system will only come into operation after the all-electric range has been used up. And 
it doesnt state that the all-electric mode will work under all conditions.
The evidence Ive seen shows that, when the dealer tested the car, it was found to be 
operating correctly. They noted that, when Mrs T brought the car in, the climate control had 
been set to 26 degrees. The dealer advised that the additional power required to maintain 
this temperature would cause the ICE to cut in. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest this car doesnt run in all-electric mode whilst using the heating 
functions to maintain an average internal temperature. Ive seen evidence confirming the 
vehicle was noted to run on electric power - without assistance from the ICE - when the 
dealer had set the climate control to 18.5 degrees.
Mrs T says the manufacturers website and sales staff should have made it clear that using 
the climate control for heating or cooling the vehicle would cause the ICE to start. But I 
consider an internal temperature of 26 degrees to be above what an average consumer 
would set the climate control at. So, I wouldnt expect the dealer or manufacturers website to specifically provide information about the cars ability to maintain that kind of temperature 
in all-electric mode. 
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied that its likely Mrs Ts car could run on electric only 
power until the battery is depleted - under the right conditions. And I dont think she was told 
the car would run on electric power only under all conditions. It follows that I dont think what 
she was told about the car was a false statement of fact. So, Im satisfied the car wasnt 
misrepresented to her.
I want to reassure Mrs T that Ive carefully considered all the other information, quotes and 
evidence shes sent to us. But Im satisfied on balance that she wasnt told the car will run in 
all-electric mode under all conditions. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
Mrs T has provided information shes recorded, showing the cars fuel consumption since 
November 2021. Shes calculated the cars fuel consumption to have been between 47.7 
and 49.7 miles per gallon. She says these figures clearly show the car isnt operating using 
only the battery. 
But Ive seen no information about the way the car was driven, the conditions nor the 
distance she travelled each time she recorded the amount of fuel used. So Im unable to 
comment on the fuel economy the car achieved. 
I appreciate Mrs T has made a significant investment in technology to enable her to 
maximise her use of cheaper and more environmentally-friendly power sources. And I can 
understand her disappointment that the car isnt performing in the way shed hoped. 
But I dont think Hyundai need to do anything to resolve Mrs Ts complaint, because Im not 
persuaded that the car was misrepresented to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman