DRN-3637283
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that they were mis-sold a points-based holiday club membership. 
Because their purchase was financed with credit provided by  First Holiday Finance Ltd, they 
say that it is liable along with the seller. They are represented by a claims management 
company, which Ill call S.   
What happened
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs J bought a trial membership of Club La Costa Vacation Club Ltd 
from Club La Costa (UK) Sucursal En Espaa (CLC). In June 2019 they attended a 
presentation while on holiday. They say that doing so was a condition of the trial 
membership. Following that presentation, Mr and Mrs J agreed to upgrade to full 
membership. 
The trial membership had been financed with a loan from FHFL and, when Mr and Mrs J 
upgraded their membership, they consolidated that loan into a new loan, also from FHFL. 
In or about July 2012 Mr and Mrs J complained to FHFL through S. In summary, they said:
The membership had been misrepresented to them.
Their contract with CLC was void as a matter of Spanish law, because it did not comply 
with Spanish law and the 2008 EU Timeshare Directive. It followed that the loan 
agreement was also void. 
They had not been given a choice of lender, so the loan agreement was unfair within 
the meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999 (UTCCR).    
In the course of making the complaint and referring it to this service, S has expanded on 
these points. 
S has said that Mr and Mrs J were misled into thinking that they would be able to resell the 
holiday product they bought. They were also told that accommodation was widely available, 
but they have not been able to book holidays as they wished. They were also led to believe 
that they had bought a timeshare, whereas in fact they were sold floating weeks, which is not 
permitted under Spanish law. 
S also said that FHFL did not properly assess the affordability of the loans before agreeing 
to them. 
FHFL did not accept Mr and Mrs Js complaint, and S referred the matter to this service on 
their behalf. One of our investigators considered it but did not recommend that it be upheld. 
S did not accept the investigators recommendation, so the case has been passed to me for 
further consideration.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The nature of the contract
Ss primary submission on its clients behalf is that the underlying contract with CLC is a 
contract for floating holiday weeks and is therefore void as a matter of Spanish law. That 
submission appears to me to be based on a number of misunderstandings and without full 
reference to the contract that Mr and Mrs J signed. 
The documents which Mr and Mrs J signed included:
an Application Form;
an Acquisition Agreement; 
a Members Declaration;
an Information Statement; and 
Standard Information in the form required by The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010.
The Application Form recorded that Mr and Mrs J were applying for 1,000 Points Rights. It 
also said that Mr and Mrs J understood that the purchase of membership was a personal 
right for the primary purpose of holidays, not a real estate interest. That was repeated in the 
Members Declaration, each section of which Mr and Mrs J initialled. Those sections 
included:
4. We understand that CLC World does not and will not run any resale or rental 
programmes and will not repurchase Vacation Club Points other than as a trade in against 
future property purchases (see Paragraph 5 below).
5. We understand that the purchase of our membership in Vacation Club is for the primary 
purpose of holidays and is not for the purposes of a real estate interest or an investment in 
real estate, and that CLC makes no representation as to the future price or value of the 
Vacation Club Holiday product. We understand that If we consider trading in some of our 
Points and it is not possible because of circumstances or due to availability of suitable 
properties, we still hold our points to use on holiday reservations.
The Standard Information included, under the heading Short Description of the Product: 
The Vacation Club is a multi-resort holiday Points system which allows Members to acquire 
their Points each year to use and enjoy the various Resorts located worldwide held within 
the Vacation Club from time to time   
In my view, it is quite clear that Mr and Mrs J did not buy a floating week contract; they 
bought a points-based holiday club membership. So, if  as S suggests  they did not realise 
they had bought a floating week product, it was because they hadnt. 
I think that the documents also made clear that what Mr and Mrs J were buying did not have 
a resale value, save in exceptional circumstances. 
Applicable law
Because I have found that Mr and Mrs J bought a points-based membership, rather than a 
floating week contract, I do not need to discuss in detail Ss argument that such contracts are void. I would note however that, in making that argument, S has referred to a judgment 
of the Spanish Supreme Court. Mr and Mrs Js contract was however expressly subject to 
English law  clause P of the Acquisition Agreement. That is repeated in the Members 
Declaration; Mr and Mrs J signed that document and initialled each paragraph to indicate 
they had read and understood them. 
Misrepresentation claims  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. It follows 
that if Mr and Mrs J made the purchase as a result of misrepresentations made by CLC, they 
have a like claim against FHFL. And the effect of section 56 is that statements made by CLC 
are to be taken as having been made by FHFL. 
I have discussed above the overall nature of the product Mr and Mrs J bought. Given the 
explanations in the contractual documents that they were buying a points-based holiday club 
membership, I do not accept that they were misled about that. 
The contractual documentation included provisions designed to ensure that the agreement 
between the parties was contained within that documentation. The Acquisition Agreement 
said, at clause N:
This Agreement is Irrevocably and legally binding upon both parties and will supersede any 
and all understandings and agreements between the parties hereto whether written or oral 
and it is mutually understood and agreed that this Agreement and the Information Statement 
and ancillary documents represent the entire agreement between the parties hereto and no 
representation or inducements made prior hereto which are not included In and embodied in 
this Agreement, or the documents referred to, will have any force or effect.
The Members Declaration included, at paragraph 10:
We understand that this Members Declaration, together with the Agreement, Is the entire 
written contract between the parties, anything additional shall only be valid if signed and 
stamped on behalf of the Company.
Mr and Mrs J initialled that paragraph.  
The misrepresentations alleged on behalf of Mr and Mrs J are not particularised in any great 
detail. Nor are they evidenced, save in their own recollections. Mr and Mrs J have not, for 
example, shown that they were unable to book holidays because of lack of available 
accommodation. But, even if they were able to show that, I would be reluctant to conclude 
that they had been induced into entering into the contract by statements that did not form 
part of it, given that they signed documents saying exactly the opposite.  
Unfair relationship claimsUnder section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
The main reasons given by S for saying there was an unfair relationship here that the 
holiday club membership is unlawful under Spanish law and that Mr and Mrs J were misled 
about the nature of what they were buying. I have however explained why I think there is no 
merit in those arguments. 
S says too that it was unfair that Mr and Mrs J were not given a choice of lender. The loan 
was arranged by CLC because it had arrangements with FHFL. That arrangement gave Mr 
and Mrs J some protections under the Consumer Credit Act, which I have discussed and 
which they would not have had if they had arranged their own finance. That is not unusual or 
unfair. And I am not aware of any reason why Mr and Mrs J could not have taken out a free-
standing loan to pay for their membership, had they wanted to do so. 
Nor do I think the interest rate of 13.8% a year made the loan agreement unfair. Under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (which has largely replaced UTCCR and which applies here), a 
court will not assess the fairness of a term which states the price of goods or services. In my 
view, the interest rate is part of the price of the loan. In any event, the rate here was 
comparable with that applicable in similar circumstances. It was clear from the outset what 
the rate was.
I am not persuaded either that any alleged failure to disclose commission made the loan 
unfair. Commissions paid for such products were not generally extortionate, and there is no 
suggestion that Mr and Mrs Js decision to borrow would have been any different if the 
commission had been disclosed.   
Affordability
Finally, S says that FHFL did not properly assess whether the loan was affordable. I note 
however that Mr and Mrs J have not suggested it wasnt. Be that as it may, Ss submissions 
on this point are not at all consistent. Its letter of complaint asserts both that neither FHFL 
did not request any information about its clients income and expenditure and that its clients 
provided that information in their loan application.
S says that FHFL should not have relied on self-certification in this way. Unless however the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs J was inaccurate, it does not seem to me that 
independent verification of that information would have made any difference to the decision 
whether or not to lend. S does not suggest that its clients provided inaccurate or incomplete 
information.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require First Holiday Finance Ltd to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman