DRN-3142205
The complaint
Mr K and Miss M complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG hasnt paid a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr K and Miss M booked a trip to an island Ill call T. They were due to fly out 
on 29 December 2019 and return to the UK on 12 January 2020. Miss M was 11 weeks 
pregnant at the time of the planned trip. While they were waiting at the airport to travel, Mr K 
and Miss M took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover their trip. 
Unfortunately, after Mr K and Miss M boarded the flight, Miss M noticed she was bleeding. 
Mr K and Miss M say the airline staff helped them to disembark the flight and Miss M was 
taken to hospital. Sadly, she was found to have suffered a miscarriage and had to undergo 
surgery the following week. Mr K and Miss M made a claim for the costs associated with 
cancelling their holiday.
URV turned down Mr K and Miss Ms claim. It said the policy didnt cover events a 
policyholder already knew about when they took out the contract. Given the timeline of 
events, it considered Mr K and Miss M may have already known they wouldnt be able to 
travel when they bought the policy. However, on appeal from Mr K and Miss M, URV said it 
would reconsider the claim if Mr K and Miss M could provide evidence from their airline that 
theyd boarded the flight and had had to disembark due to the onset of Miss Ms symptoms.
Mr K and Miss M were unhappy with URVs decision. They said the airline could only give 
them a no-show letter for the flight. This meant that they werent able to provide the 
evidence URV had requested. So they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our senior investigator didnt think Mr K and Miss M had been eligible to take out the policy. 
Thats because their trip had already started when they took it out, which meant they 
werent eligible to buy the insurance. So she didnt think theyd been covered by any of the 
policy and therefore, she didnt think URV needed to pay Mr K and Miss Ms claim. However, 
she recommended that URV should refund the premium Mr K and Miss M had paid for the 
policy.
URV agreed to refund the premium Mr K and Miss M had paid. But Mr K and Miss M 
disagreed with our investigators findings. They didnt understand why they hadnt been 
eligible for the policy, as they thought theyd be covered as soon as they took it out.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr K and Miss M, I think URVs offer to refund 
their premium is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to offer Mr K and Miss M my sincere condolences for their loss. I dont doubt 
that having to deal with making a claim added to their upset at an already very distressing 
time. 
However, like our senior investigator, I dont think Mr K and Miss M were eligible to take out 
the policy for the reasons Ill go on to explore.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr K and 
Miss Ms contract with URV. Page 1 of the contract terms include a section called Criteria 
for Purchase  in other words, the eligibility criteria. This says:
This insurance is sold on the understanding that you and anyone travelling with you and 
named on the insurance validation documentationhave not started the trip.
URV has set out what it means by a trip in the definitions section of the policy. This is a:
holiday or journey that begins when you leave home and ends on your return to either (I) 
your home, or (II) a hospital or nursing home in the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands or 
BFPO.
This means that in order to be eligible for this particular policy, a potential policyholder must 
not have left their home. In this case, Mr K and Miss M dont dispute that theyd already left 
home when they took out the policy. They were at the airport, waiting for their flight at the 
time of policy purchase. I can see from the policy schedule that the policy was taken out at 
1.06pm and their flight was due to depart at 2.10pm. Based on this, Im satisfied then that Mr 
K and Miss M had already left their home and begun their trip at the time they bought the 
insurance.
As such, Mr K and Miss M werent eligible to take out this policy with URV. And this means 
that the policy provided them with no cover whatsoever. So URV was reasonably entitled to 
turn down their cancellation claim. 
However, as Mr K and Miss M could never have benefited from any section of the policy, I 
too think that the fair and reasonable outcome here is for URV to refund the premium of 
£17.14 which Mr K and Miss M paid for the insurance. Im pleased to see that URV has 
agreed to do so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that URV must refund the premium Mr 
K and Miss M paid for their single trip travel insurance policy.
Union Reiseversicherung AG must pay Mr K and Miss M £17.14. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman