DRN-3974107
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Insurance (UKI) 
charged her a higher premium to renew her pet insurance policy than the amount quoted in 
the renewal notice. She also thought the premium had increased by an excessive amount.
What happened
Mrs M used to work for UKI. As a staff member she received a 50% staff discount on her pet 
insurance policy.
Prior to September 2022 she was paying £22.97 for cover. In August 2022 UKI offered to 
renew the policy for a monthly premium of £25.60. In fact the direct debit payments for the 
policy were £79 a month.
When Mrs M complained, UKI explained that she was no longer entitled to a staff discount 
and apologised for the fact the renewal notice had been sent in error before the staff 
discount had been removed on its system. UKI gave her the option to cancel the policy with 
a full refund or to continue with the policy at a cost of £79 a month. It also offered her £50 
compensation for its mistake.
As Mrs M was unhappy with this response, she brought a complaint to this service. She said 
if shed known the correct price of her policy before renewal, shed have shopped around for 
better terms. She said its more difficult for her to switch insurance providers now because 
shortly after renewal, her dog developed a lump which might be classed as a pre-existing 
condition by other insurers and so a linked problem in future might not be covered.
Our investigator thought UKI had offered sufficient compensation for the error with the staff 
discount and hadnt treated Mrs M unfairly in the way it had calculated her premium. 
As Mrs M didnt agree, she has asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focussed my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any 
specific point, its because I dont believe it affected what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, I want to recognise the impact on Mrs M of the matter referred to in this complaint. 
When she found out that she was being charged considerably more than shed expected 
based on her renewal notice, I can appreciate why she would have been upset. But I dont 
intend to uphold her complaint and Ill explain why.
There are two issues here  the removal of the staff discount without notifying Mrs M and the 
increase in the premium. Ill deal with both in turn.
UKI has accepted that it made a mistake in not removing Mrs Ms staff discount from its 
system before its renewal notice was sent out. Its not clear what loss Mrs M might have 
suffered as a result of this mistake. I accept that she might well have shopped around but 
theres no mechanism we can use to know what the market would have quoted Mrs M at the 
time of renewal and whether she could have got better terms from another insurer. 
I appreciate that if she switched insurers now, she might not be able to claim for anything 
connected with the lump discovered after the 2022 renewal. But theres no way of knowing 
whether her dog will in fact develop anything that could be linked to that lump. So, theres no 
evidence of any quantifiable loss to Mrs M from her not being told the correct renewal price 
before renewal.
Its clear, however, that Mrs M did suffer some distress and inconvenience as a result of the 
error. UKI has offered her £50 compensation for this. I think this fairly reflects the trouble and 
upset she was caused by its system error and I wont be asking UKI to do any more in this 
respect.
With regard to the premium increase, its important to realise that its not the role of this 
service to tell a business what to charge for the risk its insuring. So, Im not able to make a 
decision on whether the premium charged by UKI was excessive as it is entitled to charge 
Mrs M whatever premium it considers reasonable.
Ive looked at the information provided by UKI to show how it calculated the renewal 
premium. Apart from the removal of the staff discount referred to above, UKI said that the 
premium increased due to the pet getting older and an increase in the policyholders age. In 
these respects, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs M has been treated differently 
from any other policyholder in a similar situation. So, I cant say that UKI has acted unfairly 
when it determined the new premium for the pet insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman