DRN-2851110
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J have complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined their 
claim for damage caused by an escape of water at their home.
What happened
Mrs J and Mr J have a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Fairmead.
Mrs J and Mr J raised a claim for damage caused by an escape of water from their shower in 
December 2020. They had already reported this to their home emergency insurer  who had 
instructed a plumber to come and locate and repair the leak.
Mrs J and Mr J have provided comments from the plumber appointed by their home 
emergency insurer. The comments state the leak was coming from the shower waste. Mrs J 
and Mr J have also provided a video of the trap leaking from the time. 
Fairmead appointed a firm of surveyors to assess the claim on its behalf. The surveyor 
suggested the damage was more likely caused by issues with the sealant. Based on the 
comments of its surveyor, Fairmead declined Mrs J and Mr Js claim as damage caused by 
failed sealant is excluded under their policy.
Mrs J and Mr J raised a complaint about Fairmeads decision. One of our investigators 
considered Mrs J and Mr Js complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said the 
plumbers report and video clearly state and show that the waste was the cause of the leak. 
She says the fact the shower tray appears to have recently been resealed isnt surprising as 
the plumbers report states that it was removed and resealed during the repair. 
Our investigator recommended that Fairmead should reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. 
Mrs J and Mr J accepted our investigators findings, but Fairmead didnt. So, because no 
agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why in more detail below.
Loss or damage caused by the failure or lack of grout or sealant is specifically excluded 
under the terms of Mrs J and Mr Js policy.
Fairmead relied on this exclusion to decline Mrs J and Mr Js claim, based on the comments 
of its surveyor. The surveyor suggested the damage was more consistent with a slow leak 
over time and said there was visible damage beneath the sealant of the shower tray. Based 
on this, he suggested the damage was most likely due to an issue with the sealant, which he 
also highlighted appeared to have been recently reapplied to a poor standard. The surveyor 
said that if the trap had been leaking as shown in the video, he would expect to see much 
more damage in both the bathroom and the rooms below.
Mrs J and Mr J dispute this. Theyve provided comments from the plumber instructed by their 
home emergency insurer. These state that the waste on the shower tray was loose and 
leaking. To fix this, the plumber states he took out the waste, resealed, refitted and tested it. 
The plumbers notes make no mention of any issue with the sealant around the shower tray. 
Because the evidence is contradictory, I need to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely based on the evidence available.
Fairmeads surveyor states that there is visible damage to support that water was escaping 
through the sealant. However, having reviewed his report and the accompanying photos, I 
dont think this has been sufficiently evidenced. I say this because there are no photos which 
show this damage. 
The surveyor also highlighted that the sealant around the tray had been recently reapplied, 
and not to a professional standard. Fairmead have questioned why this would have been 
done unless Mrs J and Mr J were aware of an issue with the existing sealant. 
Mr J has explained that in order to access the void beneath the shower and fix the trap, the 
plumber had to remove a wooden access panel. Mr J says he needed to apply new sealant 
around this panel once the leak had been fixed. He says that when he did this, he reapplied 
sealant around the tray, in order to use up the open tube of sealant.
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said and provided. I can understand 
why the fact Mrs J and Mr J had reapplied the sealant around the shower tray could lead 
Fairmead to conclude that there was likely an issue with it, particularly in light of its 
surveyors comments. However, I dont think the fact that Mrs J and Mr J reapplied some 
sealant is persuasive evidence that there was an issue with it prior to this and this was what 
caused the damage. Mr J has offered an explanation as to why this was done, and I dont 
think its implausible.
In any event, I think the most persuasive evidence in this case are the notes provided by the 
plumber. I say this because he is the tradesman who physically inspected and repaired the 
leak. The plumbers notes are clear that the leak was caused by the waste, and they dont 
highlight any concerns or issues with the sealant around the shower tray. I dont agree that 
the surveyors concerns with the reapplication of the sealant or the level of damage are 
enough to outweigh the comments of an independent plumber who physically repaired the 
leak. 
So, in the absence of more persuasive evidence to support Fairmeads position, on balance, 
Im not persuaded that the damage was most likely caused by an issue with the sealant 
around the shower tray. Instead I think it is more likely that the damage was caused by the 
documented issue with the trap.
Based on the above, I dont think Fairmeads decision to decline Mrs J and Mr Js claim was 
fair or reasonable. It follows that I think Mrs J and Mr Js complaint should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must reconsider Mrs J and Mr Js claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman