DRN-2893158
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of her Legal Expenses 
Insurance (LEI) claim.
Where I refer to Fairmead, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
Mrs F has been helped with her complaint by a representative. But for ease of reading Ill 
mostly refer to Mrs F herself.
 
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, I 
wont repeat everything in detail again here. Instead, Ill provide an overview of some of the 
key events. 
Mrs F had the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses that was provided by 
Fairmead. Mrs F was in dispute with her employer. She contacted Fairmead as she wanted 
to explore her options in relation to taking her employer to the employment tribunal for a 
variety of reasons which included but arent limited to discrimination and victimisation. 
During a call in August 2018 Fairmead told Mrs F she needed to complete her employers 
internal grievance procedures before they could consider a claim. Mrs F accepted this 
advice and followed those processes. 
The grievance procedures and the associated appeal werent concluded until January 2019. 
Mrs F wasnt satisfied with the outcome and felt she had no option but to resign which she 
did the same month. In April 2019 Mrs F got back in touch with Fairmead. She wanted to 
restart her claim and said that she was already in touch with ACAS. 
On 10 May 2019 Fairmead asked one of their panel solicitors D to assess Mrs Fs claim. In 
June 2019 D advised that Mrs Fs claim for constructive dismissal had reasonable prospects 
of success (which was a requirement for cover under the policy). They said several other 
aspects of Mrs Fs intended claim didnt have the required prospects of success. Of note
amongst these was that several aspects that would all broadly be under the heading of 
discrimination didnt have reasonable prospects of success. But the reason for this was 
primarily as they had been brought too late. 
It was around this time that Mrs F became aware that shed been given incorrect advice by 
Fairmead in August 2018. And by following that advice, much of what she wanted to now 
pursue against her employer was out of time. Mrs F complained to Fairmead. 
On 10 June 2019 D reported to Fairmead that they had a conflict of interests and they 
ceased acting for Mrs F. Another solicitors firm H were appointed the following day. In 
August 2019 Fairmead responded to Mrs Fs complaint. They accepted that theyd given 
incorrect information and that this had impacted Mrs Fs ability to make those claims. They 
acknowledged that Hs recent assessment concluded that the discrimination claims had the 
required prospects of success (if the tribunal would accept them). But noted that the other 
side might argue the claim had been brought too late. So, they said they would fund H to the 
point at which the tribunal made a decision on whether the discrimination claims were made 
too late. And if they had been, Fairmead would look to compensate Mrs F for no longer 
being able to make those claims. 
H advised Mrs F to consider settling with her former employer in September 2019, the 
relationship between Mrs F and H later broke down and they ceased acting for her. Another 
firm M was then appointed to act for Mrs F. Ultimately, in December 2019 M advised Mrs F 
to accept an offer from her former employer. Mrs F declined to do so and Fairmead withdrew 
further cover from the claim, relying on a policy term to do so. Fairmead also said that whilst 
they had previously agreed to fund legal action as far as the tribunal (to see if the 
discrimination claim would be allowed despite having been made late), they were now no 
longer prepared to do so. They reiterated that they would seek advice as to the value of that 
claim from a barrister and that they would then appropriately compensate Mrs F. 
Mrs F remained dissatisfied. She feels shes been denied her day in court and she is also 
unhappy with the decisions taken by and the overall service provided by Fairmead. The 
complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. In summary, 
he acknowledged that throughout the course of the claim, Fairmead had already offered 
Mrs F several hundred pounds in compensation. He thought that was fair for where there 
had been delays or poor service. But he recommended that a further £200 be paid to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused by Mrs F no longer being able to 
take her discrimination claim to tribunal. He also concluded that Fairmead having a barrister 
assess the value of the discrimination claim with a view to compensating Mrs F appropriately 
was fair. 
Fairmead accepted this outcome but Mrs F wanted an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
Whilst the complaint was awaiting allocation to an ombudsman, there was further 
disagreement between Fairmead and Mrs F as to how the barristers assessment should be 
conducted. Our investigator tried to help mediate a solution and the case has now come to 
me for a decision. 
In May 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead accept that their agent gave incorrect advice to Mrs F about her needing to 
exhaust her employers internal grievance procedures before she could bring a discrimination 
claim. Following that advice meant that Mrs F was likely to have been out of time to bring 
that claim to an employment tribunal. The legal opinions obtained support that there were
insufficient prospects of success (a requirement for cover under the policy) because the 
claim was being made too late. 
Initially Fairmead agreed to fund the claim to the tribunal to see if it would be allowed despite 
the time limits. They also said if that wasnt possible they would then compensate Mrs F for 
her lost opportunity. I think that was fair, and rather than just saying that they would assess 
the value of the lost opportunity, I think Fairmead did what they could to still try to allow 
Mrs Fs claim to be heard at a tribunal. However, as the claim progressed, circumstances 
changed. In December 2019 M advised Mrs F to accept an offer that had been made by her 
former employer. 
Mrs Fs policy says: If you do not accept an offer the administrator views as reasonable, we 
will not pay any further costs. In this context the administrator is Fairmead (or their claim 
handler as their agent). Fairmead themselves arent legal experts, they are an insurer. So in deciding if an offer is reasonable or not, I think its fair that they rely on suitably qualified 
legal opinion. Im satisfied that M believed the offer to be reasonable and their advice was to 
accept it. There is also evidence to show that in January 2020 Mrs F declined to do so. So, 
on that basis I dont think Fairmeads decision to withdraw further cover from the claim was 
unfair or unreasonable. 
I appreciate that Fairmead had previously told Mrs F that they would fund the claim as far as 
tribunal. But doing so would have potentially opened Fairmead up to liability to significant 
costs from the other side if Mrs F were to achieve a less favourable result than the offer that 
was already on the table. I dont think it is reasonable to expect Fairmead to take on that 
potential liability (which could have been a significant sum) when the legal advice was to 
accept an offer. 
But that doesnt mean that Fairmead didnt have to do anything further in relation to the 
previous error which resulted in the discrimination claims being made too late. Our 
investigator recommended a further £200 compensation for the impact of losing that 
opportunity, I agree that is a fair amount in the circumstances. And whilst I appreciate it 
might not feel that way to Mrs F, any legal dispute is always going to be a difficult and 
stressful time. And I must isolate (as far as Im able) the impact of Fairmeads mistake, 
rather than consider how Mrs F was impacted overall by the wider circumstances. 
I also understand that there is a further dispute in relation to how the barristers assessment 
should be conducted and by whom. I acknowledge that Mrs F wants to use her own solicitor 
to appoint a barrister and has also offered to pay the difference between the costs of a 
barrister that Fairmead might appoint and her own choice. I accept that this is an instance of 
putting things right for Mrs F, rather than being the continuation of a claim in line with the 
policy terms. But I still think it would be simpler and quicker for both parties for the instruction 
to come from a solicitor that Fairmead have an existing relationship with. Im not persuaded 
the solicitor would be any less independent and Ive included provision below for Mrs F to 
provide input to the instructions. This will avoid the need to negotiate over an hourly rate and 
to agree terms with a non-panel solicitor, and Im mindful of the impact Mrs F has said this 
matter dragging on is having on her health. With the aim of helping both parties reach a 
resolution I intend to direct Fairmead to do the following:
Give Mrs F the choice of three suitably qualified barristers (with experience of 
employment law) to assess the quantum of the discrimination claims against 
her former employer that she missed out on bringing due to the incorrect 
advice from Fairmead.
These barristers can come from Fairmeads preferred chambers. Im not 
persuaded that if a barrister has previously worked with the insurer, that this 
means they wont be independent.
Allow Mrs F the opportunity to comment on the instructions provided to the 
barrister, before work starts on the assessment.
The costs of the assessment should be paid by Fairmead.
Mrs F has said she would like to have a conference with the barrister. If the 
selected barrister deems this necessary to make his/her assessment, then 
this should be allowed and funded by Fairmead.
Fairmead should pay Mrs F the amount the barrister assesses her 
discrimination claims would have settled for, had she been able to pursue 
them.
Im also aware that there were other aspects of the handling of Mrs Fs claim that she 
remains unhappy with, so Ill address these below for completeness. Mrs F believes Fairmead were at fault for instructing D in the first place as the group that 
they are a part of has a working relationship with her former employer (who themselves are 
a firm regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority). It is a matter for D to manage their own 
conflicts, and this isnt something that Fairmead would have any influence over or knowledge 
of. So, I cant say Fairmead acted unfairly when referring the claim to D in the first instance.
Mrs F points out that the change of solicitors from H to M left very little time for the work 
required to meet a tight deadline imposed by the tribunal process. She feels this resulted in 
her claim being watered down. I appreciate there are often tight deadlines, particularly in 
employment tribunal cases. But where the relationship between an insured and a panel 
solicitor breaks down, Id usually expect the insurer to arrange an alternative. And I dont 
think the short amount of time that was available to M is down to unreasonable delays by 
Fairmead or that they can reasonably be held responsible for the impact of this. 
Fairmead throughout the course of the claim have offered £450 compensation for the impact 
of poor service such as calls not being returned and similar. This was made up of £50 in the 
final response letter (FRL) dated 18 October 2019, £150 in the FRL dated 19 December 
2019 and £250 in the FRL dated 9 January 2020. Having considered Mrs Fs overall claim 
journey and the service received and noting that Fairmead arent responsible for the service 
provided by solicitors acting under the policy, I think this is fair. But as Ive covered above, I 
still think a further £200 should be paid for the impact of being denied the opportunity to go 
to tribunal. 
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either 
Mrs F or Fairmead Insurance Limited, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part.
Fairmead responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mrs F provided a response 
which Ill address below. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go 
ahead with my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all of Mrs Fs detailed response to my provisional decision. But I 
wont be responding in similar detail. Much of the response reiterates her position and 
repeats arguments I considered in my provisional decision. As well as other points about the 
conduct of solicitors that I cant comment on. Overall, Im not persuaded to deviate from the 
outcome explained in my provisional decision. But where I feel I can add some value, Ill 
address some of the points raised.
Mrs F has sought further clarity around the arrangements between Fairmead, her former 
employer and other involved parties. I appreciate these relationships can be complex, but 
Im satisfied that Fairmead are the correct respondent to this complaint. They are 
responsible for the acts of their agents in handling the claim and also for those of the 
previous insurer that Fairmead acquired in 2020. Im not persuaded that the business 
relationships between the involved parties represented a conflict or that Fairmead acted 
inappropriately.
Mrs F also suggested that it was Fairmead who told D that they had a conflict of interest, and 
not the other way around. Ive seen evidence in the form of a call note (as referred to above) 
that D reported to Fairmead on 10 June 2019 that they were conflicted. But even if this were 
incorrect, it wouldnt change my mind as to the outcome of this complaint. An insurer wont necessarily be aware of when and if a solicitor appointed under the policy has a conflict of 
interest with any given client on any given case. Irrespective of the origin of the message, D 
were conflicted. I maintain that Fairmead wouldnt have known this prior to their appointment 
(and so appointing D wasnt a failure) and that they then took appropriate action by 
arranging another firm without delay once aware of the conflict. 
Mrs F doesnt believe that there was a breakdown in her relationship with H. Again, Ive seen 
communication between H and Fairmead in which H explain their relationship has broken 
down with Mrs F and give their reasons why. So, I dont think Fairmead were wrong to again 
appoint a further firm for Mrs F. 
Mrs F says she has lost trust in Fairmead and doesnt think they should have involvement in 
the assessment of the quantum of her missed claim. She repeats that she would like to use 
legal professionals local to her. Ive considered this and I again acknowledge this is a case 
of putting things right rather than following the policy terms in the continuation of a claim. 
But for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that my 
proposed resolution is fair. Im not persuaded that the legal professionals wont be 
independent and there is provision for Mrs F to make her own selection (from a choice of 
three). 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
Pay Mrs F £650 compensation for the trouble and upset shes experienced. (If 
the £450 from the previous FRLs mentioned above has already been paid, 
then only the further £200 needs to be paid);
Give Mrs F the choice of three suitably qualified barristers (with experience of 
employment law) to assess the quantum of the discrimination claims against 
her former employer that she missed out on bringing due to the incorrect 
advice from Fairmead. (These barristers can come from Fairmeads preferred 
chambers.)
Allow Mrs F the opportunity to comment on the instructions provided to the 
selected barrister, before work starts on the assessment.
The costs of the assessment should be paid by Fairmead.
If the selected barrister deems a conference with Mrs F to be necessary to 
make their assessment, then this should be allowed and funded by Fairmead.
Fairmead should pay Mrs F the amount the barrister assesses her 
discrimination claims would have settled for, had she been able to pursue 
them.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman