DRN-3370921
The complaint
Mr S complains about delays and problems when trying to arrange a transfer from his HSBC 
UK Bank Plc account.
 
What happened
Mr S has a UK based account with HSBC but lives in another country. In December 2020 
HSBC wrote to Mr S to say his account was inactive. HSBC explained that if Mr S didnt take 
action he wouldnt be able to use the account for transactions from February 2021. Mr S was 
asked to make a payment or complete a transaction on his account to ensure it wasnt 
frozen. HSBC didnt hear from Mr S and no transactions were carried out. The account was 
frozen. 
In June 2021 Mr S contacted HSBC to complete a withdrawal transfer. Mr S was asked to 
supply documents to verify his identity in order to reactivate his account. Mr S has explained 
he sought assistance in a branch of HSBC in the country where he resides but it was unable 
to help. Certified copies of Mr S identification was supplied to HSBC in the UK and the 
account block was removed on 8 July 2021. 
Mr S attempted to make the transfer on several occasions but it was picked up by HSBCs 
fraud systems for further checks. After HSBCs fraud team was able to speak with Mr S the 
payment was released on 11 July 2021. 
Mr S complained and has explained he wanted to use the funds for investment purposes. As 
a result, Mr S says hes lost out on returns he expected to receive. HSBC sent Mr S a final 
response and said the account block was removed on 7 July 2021 but the transaction was 
reversed on 8 July 2021. HSBC said the payment reversal wasnt linked to the dormant 
account issues and paid Mr S £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
HSBC had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
HSBC wrote to Mr S in December 2020 to explain what he needed to do so his account 
remained active. As no action was taken by Mr S, Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly by taking 
steps to restrict the account. 
As the account restrictions were in place when Mr S wanted to withdraw funds he had to 
take further steps before it could be authorised. I appreciate the process of providing 
certified documents to verify Mr S identity was complicated by the fact Mr S doesnt reside in 
the UK. But I think that reflects difficulties operating a UK based account whilst residing in 
another country. And Im satisfied there were alternative options available. 
Mr S has told us he tried to complete the process via an HSBC branch where he lives. Were 
only able to consider the actions of HSBC UK and I think its reasonable to note that any 
branches operated where Mr S lives are a separate business. So I cant comment on the 
service provided to Mr S in branch. 
I can see that HSBC received identification documents from Mr S and it took some time for 
them to be approved. Ive seen HSBCs processing notes and they show HSBCs decision to 
accept Mr S documents were made as an exception to its normal process. HSBC has 
already explained it doesnt normally accept emailed documents. HSBC has also told us it 
accepted Mr S non UK drivers licence for identification purposes as an exception. Given 
HSBC was acting outside its normal process I havent been persuaded there were 
unreasonable delays. 
When the account restrictions were removed, Mr S attempted the transfer. But the transfer 
was picked up several times by HSBCs fraud prevention systems. HSBC has sent us 
evidence to show the transfer attempts were picked up for further review as claimed. HSBC 
attempted to contact Mr S but was unable to do so which meant the transfers didnt go 
through until 11 July 2021. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S as I dont doubt he found the process 
of completing the transfer frustrating. And its clear there were difficulties speaking with Mr S 
to confirm the transfer. But I havent been persuaded that HSBC dealt with the transfer 
attempts unreasonably or treated Mr S unfairly. 
HSBC paid Mr S £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Im satisfied £50 fairly reflects any distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr S so Im not increasing the award of telling HBSC to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman