DRN-4165276
The complaint
Mr D complained through a representative that Stagemount Limited trading as 
Quid Market (Quid Market) gave him loans without carrying out sufficient affordability 
checks. 
What happened
Mr D took two loans from Quid Market and Ive outlined a summary of the borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountdate loan 
was fundedrepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £600.00 11/04/2022 04/05/2022 6 £185.29
2 £600.00 13/05/2022 15/08/2022 6 £183.95
Following Mr Ds representatives complaint, Quid Market issued its response. It said it had 
carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were affordable. Although, 
Quid Market didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill it offered to remove these 
loans from Mr Ds credit file.
Mr Ds representative didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. She didnt think
Quid Market had made an error when the loans were provided because it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Mr Ds representative didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans decision and 
therefore the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market had to assess the lending to check if Mr D could afford to pay back the
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Quid Markets checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mr Ds income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quid Market should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include:
Mr D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied to Mr Ds complaint, and I agree as only two loans were granted, for the same 
capital sum. 
Quid Market was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr D was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint.
Loan 1
Quid Market has shown that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr D for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr D declared his income to be £1,800 per month. However, 
Quid Market says it verified Mr Ds income and so for the purposes of its affordability 
assessment it used a monthly income figure of £1,620.
Mr D also declared his monthly outgoings were £645. This left disposable income of around
£1,155 per month. However, following a credit check Quid Market believed Mr Ds outgoings 
were more likely to be around £984 per month. This meant a decrease in his monthly 
disposable income to £636. 
Even with this smaller disposable income figure there was sufficient disposable income for 
Quid Market to believe Mr D could afford the largest planned repayment of around £186 per 
month. The loan looked affordable.
Before this loan was approved Quid Market also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Quid Market carried out a credit search there
wasnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
Quid Market couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the
information it received if necessary.
Quid Market was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit reference
agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained
within it, that wouldve either prompted Quid Market to have carried out further checks or
possibly have declined Mr Ds application.From the credit check results provided by Quid Market, I can see that Mr D had five active 
credit accounts, owing these providers just over £550. The results also showed that Mr D 
had only opened one account within the last six months. 
So, while I accept that Mr Ds representative has found in Mr Ds credit file that he had 
opened a lot more credit accounts than the one Quid Market knew about, I still think for a 
first loan it was reasonable and proportionate for it to have relied on the credit check results 
Quid Market received. 
Quid Market also knew that Mr D had defaulted on accounts in 2017 and 2018. But in my 
view, these were too far removed from the loan start date to have given Quid Market cause 
for concern that Mr D may have been having current financial difficulties. 
However, looking at the rest of the credit report, there wasnt any other adverse credit data 
or anything to suggest that Mr D was either overindebted, having financial difficulties or was 
reliant on this sort of credit. Therefore, the credit report wouldnt have prompted 
Quid Market to carry out further checks. 
Im satisfied that Quid Market carried out proportionate checks which showed it the loan was 
affordable and I dont yet think it had reached the stage where it needed to verify the 
information it had been provided or have prompted it to conclude the lending was 
unsustainable for Mr D. 
Im therefore not to upholding Mr Ds complaint about loan one.
Loan 2
Quid Market carried out similar checks before it granted loan two. This time Mr D declared a 
monthly income of £1,900 and outgoings of £556  leaving enough disposable income to 
afford the repayment. 
However, as before, Quid Market says the income was verified and so it used a monthly 
income figure of £1,710 for its assessment. Quid Market also carried out a credit search and 
so adjusted the figures Mr D had provided as part of his application. Having done so, it 
concluded Mr Ds outgoings were likely to be around £1,030 per month. However, this still 
left a sufficient amount of disposable income to afford the loan repayment. 
Loan one also appeared to have been repaid without any other difficulties. I accept it was 
repaid much sooner than Quid Market had expected, but that alone wouldnt have prompted 
it to have carried out further checks. 
Like loan one, a credit search was carried out for loan two and the same caveats apply to 
the results. As expected, Quid Market was told much the same information by the credit 
reference as it was told for loan one. This time it knew that Mr D owed other creditors around 
£554 and had six active accounts. There wasnt anything in my view that had changed since 
loan one to have given Quid Market cause for concern about the results. I say this bearing in 
mind that Quid Market adjusted Mr Ds expenditure based on what it saw in the credit check.
So, like loan one, Im satisfied that the credit check results wouldnt have led Quid Market to 
decline the application or to have led it to carry out further checks. Overall, Quid Market 
carried out proportionate checks before this loan was advanced and therefore, I am also not 
upholding Mr Ds complaint about loan two. In saying that, Quid Market has made a gesture of goodwill offer in the final response letter 
to remove these loans from Mr Ds credit file. If Mr D wishes to take Quid Market up on this 
offer he will need to contact them directly, to see whether that offer is still available to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman