Complaint
Ms C complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis- sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy. The policy was sold to Ms C in July 2005 
alongside additional borrowing on her mortgage, and provided cover for accident, sickness 
and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs complaint. 
Theres limited information available from the time the PPI was sold to Ms C, which isnt 
unusual given the sale took place over 14 years ago. As a result, Halifax hasnt been able to 
provide copies of Ms Cs actual paperwork from the time of sale. 
So, Ive based my findings on the information I do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened at the time of sale. 
Halifax says that Ms C would have been given a choice about the PPI and it would have 
gained her consent before adding it to her mortgage. Using what I know generally about 
Halifaxs sales processes around the time of sale the PPI was sold to Ms C, I think its likely 
that this would have been the case. Businesses arent required to keep information 
indefinitely and so it would be unfair to say that Halifax wouldnt have given Ms C a choice or 
gained her consent, just because it doesnt have the paperwork. I cant assume something 
went wrong when there isnt any persuasive evidence that it did. So it wouldnt be fair for me 
to uphold this complaint on this basis.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Ms C. And the policy seems to have been right for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was eligible for cover and 
I cant see that she would have been affected by any of things the policy didnt cover  such 
as pre-existing medical conditions. DRN-1043886
 
Ms C says she didnt need PPI as she would have received generous sick pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. She says she would have been entitled to six 
months full pay followed by six months half pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to any sick pay Ms C would have received from her employer and would have paid out for up 
to 12 months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Ms C was ever made redundant. So 
I dont think the sick pay Ms C had would have meant that Halifax was wrong to recommend 
the PPI to her.
Ms C has also told us that she applied for the additional lending in order to consolidate some 
of her debts. She also said she was looking to extend her mortgage term in order to reduce 
her overall monthly expenses. So, Ive thought whether this would have meant that Halifax 
was wrong to recommend that she take out the PPI.
Having considered this information, I dont think it means Halifaxs recommendation was 
unsuitable. Based on what Ive seen, I can see that the policy was free for the first three 
months and that cost of the premium was relatively low compared to the benefit payable in 
the event of a successful claim. 
Ive noted that at the time Ms C took out the PPI, she told Halifax that she was planning on 
selling her property towards the end of 2005. I can see that Ms C did go on to sell her 
property approximately a year after she took out the PPI. So, Ive thought about whether this 
would have made a difference to the suitability of Halifaxs recommendation. Again, I dont 
think it does. Taking a mortgage is a large, long term financial commitment. If repayments 
arent met borrowers stand to lose their home. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI 
would have paid a benefit which would have enabled Ms C to pay her mortgage at what 
could be a difficult time. And at the time Halifax made its recommendation it wasnt known 
that Ms C was guaranteed to go on to sell her property. Her situation and circumstances 
may have changed. So I cant fairly say Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI. It could 
have provided a useful benefit as explained above.
So, I dont think Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI to Ms C. And I think Ms C could 
have found the cover useful if she ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Ms C, Halifax also had to give her clear 
enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Halifax didnt give her all the 
information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it should have 
been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Ms C from taking it out.
So overall, I think Halifaxs recommendation was suitable and I dont think that any better 
information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
It follows that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
Based on everything Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman