DRN-3065648
The complaint
Mr B complains that Quilter Financial Services Ltd didnt deal with his instructions to make a 
withdrawal from his stocks and share Individual Savings Account (ISA), and this caused him 
a financial loss.
What happened
Mr B called Quilter on 13 January 2020 and asked them to withdraw £25,000 from his stocks 
and shares ISA. Mr B and Quilter agreed to meet on 23 January to discuss the imminent 
removal of the ISA provider from their portfolio management service. During this meeting 
Quilter recorded that Mr B wished to withdraw £25,000 from his ISA before the balance was 
transferred to an alternative provider.
On 1 February, Mr B emailed Quilter and asked that the withdraw amount be amended to 
£15,000 as he was concerned about the downward trend of stock markets triggered by 
Covid-19. Quilter acknowledged the email on 3 February and said they would amend the 
suitability report to reflect this. Mr B responded the same day to tell Quilter to pay the funds 
into his joint account.
Mr B then contacted Quilter by email on 11 February and amended the sum he wanted to 
withdrawal back to £25,000 and asked the for the withdrawal to take place as soon as 
possible. Quilter acknowledged the email the same day and met with Mr B on 12 February to 
discuss the suitability report and confirmed his instruction to withdraw £25,000 from his ISA 
before any transfer took place.
On 10 March, Mr B emailed Quilter and told them not to complete the £25,000 withdrawal 
due to uncertain market conditions and their lack of action in the matter. The withdrawal was 
not completed, and Mr B didnt take up any of the recommendations made by Quilter in their 
suitability report. Mr B independently withdrew £15,000 from his ISA on 29 June 2020.
Mr B complained to Quilter that hed suffered a financial loss when he withdrew £15,000 
from his ISA in June 2020. He said that if Quilter had acted on his instruction in January he 
wouldnt have had to sell as many units to achieve the £15,000 he still needed. Quilter 
provided a final response to the complaint. They agreed there had been some delay in them 
dealing with the withdraw, but felt they werent responsible for the unforeseen market 
fluctuations caused by Covid-19 concerns. They offered Mr B £250.00 for the trouble and 
upset the delays had caused him.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response from Quilter and brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought Quilter should compensate Mr B by 
calculating how much the units in the funds cost on 25 February compared to the price on 
the day he withdrew £15,000. And that they should then pay Mr B the difference between 
these two calculations if there is a financial loss.
Quilter didnt agree with our investigator and theyve asked that an ombudsman decides the 
complaint. Quilter say they dont think its fair and reasonable to expect them to pay redress 
as Mr B made an independent decision to withdraw £15,000 after hed told them not to go 
ahead with it.
Mr B has asked that an ombudsman consider that he changed his request with Quilter 
because of their lack of response and he lacked confidence in them because of this. He 
explained that it wasnt until 11 February 2020 that Quilter realised that his bank details were 
not to hand, and this supports theyd only just commenced preparation for the withdrawal.  
As Id reached a conclusion that relied on different evidence than that referred to by our 
investigation, and the remedy I was considering was also different, I issued a provisional 
decision and asked both parties for their comments/ My provisional decision said:
Quilter accept Mr B first contacted them to ask for the £25,000 withdrawal on 13 January 
2020, and that they didnt process any withdrawal for Mr B thereafter. The crux of the 
complaint is that Mr B believes if Quilter had dealt with his withdrawal promptly, he 
wouldnt have had to sell as many units as he did in June. As Quilter dont dispute they 
failed to act on any of these instructions, I will now consider how this may have impacted 
Mr B.
Ive seen that our investigator relied on section 13 of the ISA terms and conditions which 
said, You will receive the payment of your one-off withdrawal within ten working days 
after we start to carry out your instruction. However, this deals with when Mr B would 
likely receive the proceeds of the withdrawal and not the time Quilter should reasonably 
have acted on his instructions. So, I wont be relying on this section as Quilter didnt 
process any of Mr Bs instructions.
Instead, Ive looked again at the terms and conditions of the ISA account. Section 21 
deals with what Quilter say they would do when they receive an instruction to sell units. 
They say, If we receive an instructionwe will arrange the transaction for you by 
sending instructions to the fund manager(s) on your behalf. We will submit that 
instruction to the fund manager by the time indicated in the table. The instruction was 
initially by telephone on 13 January, but Mr B and Quilter agreed to meet up to discuss 
the withdrawal process on 23 January. Ive seen that Mr B signed an updated service 
agreement on this day. I consider this to be the date when Mr B wouldve understood 
Quilter had accepted his instruction. I say this because the financial planning report 
Quilter produced dated 5 February explained Mr Bs objective was to withdraw £25,000 
from his ISA, and this report relied on the information Mr B provided on 23 January.
In section 22.1 Quilter provide a table of the time they would take to instruct the fund 
manager. The table says that they would instruct the fund manager to withdraw the funds 
at, {the} end of the next working day after we accept the instruction. So, I would 
expect Quilter to have submitted the withdrawal request to the fund manager no later 
than 24 January (a Friday). The unit price will be the price that applies on the dealing day 
on which the fund manager acts on the instruction. Section 22.1 says this is typically the 
next dealing point after the next cut-off time following receipt of the instruction. So, in this 
case, it seems reasonable to conclude the next dealing point would be 27 January, which 
was the next working day.
In his comments to our investigator, Mr B says he required the £25,000 to change his car 
and for any domestic emergencies, which included helping out his children. He added 
his initial request wasnt a result of the pandemic. This is generally supported within the 
fact find Mr B competed with Quilter on 23 January and the financial report Quilter sent 
him dated 5 February.
Mr B did change his instruction, but he quickly changed it back to the £25,000 again. I 
can understand why Covid-19 caused Mr B to reflect and request a lower amount, but Im satisfied Mr Bs intention was to withdraw £25,000. Mr B then cancelled the instruction to 
withdraw £25,000 on 10 March because of the worsening stock market position and 
because hed lost faith in Quilter dealing with his requests. He independently withdrew 
£15,000 from his ISA on 29 June 2020.
If Quilter had dealt with Mr Bs initial £25,000 withdrawal request in line with their 
commitments, its likely units wouldve been sold from his ISA on 27 January 2020. In my 
opinion, because of the actions of Quilter, Mr B missed the opportunity to sell units at the 
price on 27 January. So, I consider its reasonable for Quilter to put Mr B back in the 
position he wouldve been in on 27 January, and any redress should take this into 
account.
Ive considered Quilters comment that they shouldnt be responsible for any reduction in 
units when Mr B withdrew £15,000 on 29 June. The markets did move downwards in 
March 2020, but it seems to me that Mr B took reasonable steps to delay any withdrawal 
until there was some market recovery. In other words, he took steps to mitigate his 
potential loss, which is what I would expect a reasonable person to do. However, he still 
needed funds that Quilter failed to provide him because they didnt follow any of his 
withdrawal instructions. So, I consider Quilter should take steps to put Mr B back in the 
position he wouldve been in if theyd dealt with the withdrawal request on 23 January.
Mr B wanted £25,000 in January, but only withdrew £15,000 in June. So, intend saying it 
would be fair and reasonable for any redress to be based on the £15,000 Mr B withdrew. 
And that any redress should be calculated on the difference between the unit prices on 
the ISA on 27 January and 29 June 2020. If the number of units Mr B had to sell on 29 
June 2020 is higher than the units he wouldve have sold on 27 January 2020, I intend 
asking Quilter to pay Mr B the difference. I also intend asking Quilter to pay Mr B 8% 
simple interest on this amount until the date they pay him the difference for the time Mr B 
has been deprived of these funds.
Mr B originally held his funds within an ISA account, and I considered whether any 
redress should be made direct to the ISA account. But, in this case Quilter arent the ISA 
provider and never were. As Quilter are a third-party to the withdrawal and they cant 
purchase units in the ISA fund for Mr B, I consider that any redress should be paid direct 
to Mr B. I note Mr B hasnt used his ISA allowance for 2021/22, so he can place any 
funds into an ISA this year up to the ISA limit.
Ive seen that Mr B had to contact Quilter several times in respect of his instructions as it 
became clear they hadnt dealt with them. Ultimately I can see that Mr B felt he had to 
cancel the instruction as hed lost faith in Quilters ability to deal with his instruction. Im 
satisfied that between the initial instruction on 13 January and the cancellation of his 
instruction on 10 March, Mr B wouldve suffered some inconvenience and upset by the 
lack of action from Quilter. However, I intend saying that the £250.00 payment Quilter 
offered in this regard was fair and reasonable.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision without further comment.
Quilter say the suitability report they provided to Mr B confirmed the withdrawal was to put 
funds back into Mr Bs ISA, rather than to cover anticipated of expenditure. And, Quilter point 
out that Mr B hadnt been in urgent need of the funds because if he had been, he wouldve 
withdrawn the funds much earlier than 29 June 2020. Quilter again express the view that its 
unreasonable they should pay for redress for a decision Mr B made independently months 
after informing them he no longer wanted to proceed with the withdrawal. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In respect of the comments provided by Quilter, Ive looked at things again, but Im not 
persuaded they change my mind. I will now explain why.
The suitability report is dated 6 February 2020. It states the purpose of the review was, 
amongst other things, for Mr B to withdraw {sic} £25,000 using your ISA On page five 
of the report it goes on to say the following, in table form;
Stocks and Shares ISA (company N); Withdrawal - £25,000; Recommended Investment 
Solution  N/A. 
Therefore, Im persuaded the suitability report doesnt support the £25,000 was to be 
transferred into another ISA. Instead, it supports it was Mr Bs intention to withdraw £25,000 
from the ISA and that this was part of the recommendation.
Quilter believe that if Mr B wanted the funds urgently he wouldve taken funds out of his ISA 
much earlier than 29 June 2020. And they say again its unreasonable they should pay for 
redress for a decision Mr B made independently months after informing them he no longer 
wanted to proceed with the withdrawal. I dealt with this in my provisional decision. To clarify, 
I dont consider the actions Mr B took were unreasonable at the time. I believe he took steps 
to mitigate any losses, but he still needed funds after Quilter failed to deal with his 
withdrawal requests. And, if Quilter had dealt with the withdrawal requests he made in good 
time, it seems unlikely he wouldve needed to withdraw funds at all in June 2020. The fact 
that Mr B withdrew only £15,000 in June 2020 persuades me he was trying to manage the 
difficulties Quilters failure to deal with the withdraw requests within a reasonable time scale 
caused him.
So, having considered the comments from Mr B and Quilter, Im satisfied that my provisional 
decision was a fair and reasonable one and Ive adopted it as my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and Quilter Financial Services Ltd 
should:
 Pay Mr B any difference between the prices of the units of a £15,000 withdrawal from 
his ISA on 27 January 2020 and a £15,000 withdrawal on 29 June 2020;
 Pay Mr B 8% a year simple interest* on any amount payable from 29 June 2020 until 
the funds are paid to him; and
 Pay Mr B the sum of £250.00 to reflect the inconvenience and upset they caused him 
by not dealing with his instructions.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quilter Financial Services Ltd to take off tax from this 
interest. Quilter must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if he asks for 
one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Paul LawtonOmbudsman