DRN-4478728
The complaint
Miss S complains that Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd (F&L) rejected a claim on 
her legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd, this includes its agents and 
claims handlers acting on its behalf.  
What happened
Miss S took out an after the event legal expenses insurance policy in relation to a legal claim 
she was pursuing. The policy covered her opponents costs and disbursements if her case 
was not successful.
After proceedings were issued Miss S made an application to the court to amend the 
particulars of claim. Her application wasnt successful. The court struck out her claim and 
ordered Miss S to pay the defendants costs. 
When her solicitors tried to claim on the policy, F&L said Miss S could not make a claim 
because theres no cover where proceedings are struck out due to procedural error or 
default. Miss S complained but F&L didnt change its decision. 
F&L later said it was also entitled to reject the claim because Miss S had breached policy 
terms that required her to notify it of any settlement offers that had been made, and she had 
received several offers but hadnt told it about any of them.
Miss S referred her complaint to this Service but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said the court order was clear that the main reason the claim had been struck 
out was because Miss S claim didnt comply with the procedural rules.
Miss S disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. She says 
F&L failed to respond to her complaint properly, in accordance with the relevant 
rules.
Procedural error is not defined in the policy terms. There are many possible ways to 
interpret this and its difficult for a consumer to understand what it covers or when it 
may be used. But its intended to address the most basic and obvious errors, which 
are wholly procedural or administrative, and that wasnt the case here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy provides cover where Miss S court case is not successful. Thats the case here  
but F&L says it doesnt need to cover the claim because of an exclusion in the policy terms 
and because she is in breach of the policy conditions.  
When it originally rejected the claim F&L relied on an exclusion, which says there is no cover 
for
Opponents Costs and/or Own Costs and Disbursements if the Proceedings are struck out 
due to procedural error or default.
Procedural error isnt defined in the policy terms. Miss S says this is unclear and its difficult 
for a consumer to understand what it covers or when it may be used, but its intended to 
address the most basic and obvious administrative errors. She also says even if some of the 
failings identified by the judge were procedural, many of the issues concerned the merits of 
the case and its possible the outcome would have been the same without any potential 
procedural error. So the case wasnt struck out solely due to procedural errors.
Ive considered her arguments carefully but I think it was fair for F&L to rely on this 
exclusion. 
Where something isnt defined in the policy terms, the usual approach is to give the words 
their ordinary meaning. An error is simply a mistake, or getting something wrong, while 
procedural means relating to a procedure or process. On that basis, I dont think the phrase 
procedural error is unclear. It refers to making a mistake or doing something wrong in 
respect of procedural matters, as opposed to the merits of the case. 
There are procedural rules (the Civil Procedure Rules) and Practice Directions that should 
be followed when pursuing litigation. If a party to a case doesnt comply with those rules and 
their case is struck out because the rules have not been followed, then I think its fair to say 
the case was struck out due to a procedural error.
The judge made a number of comments about this, including the following:
The rules of court provide that the particulars of claim should contain necessary 
particulars and practice direction PD 53 says that in claims such as Miss S claim 
there are specific things that the claimant must specify in the particulars of claim
there has been a failure to provide the necessary particulars required by PD 53
the latest draft of the particulars of claim does not comply with the requirements 
of PD 53.
He also said the Defendants have been put to unnecessary trouble and cost by the chaotic 
manner in which the claimant has chosen to conduct this litigation
I appreciate that the judge also considered the underlying merits of the case, and there were 
reasons relating to the merits that contributed to his decision. But its clear the failings 
identified above concern procedural issues and also led to the decision. Miss S failed to 
comply with the procedural rules and the case was struck out, and costs awarded, because 
of the way she had conducted the case. 
In these circumstances, I think it was fair for F&L to conclude that these were procedural 
errors, and they led to her case being struck out.
F&L also referred to breaches of conditions that required Miss S to notify it of any settlement 
offers that had been made. There were several offers but Miss S didnt tell F&L about them. 
If she had done so, it could have considered whether cover should continue but it lost the 
opportunity to do that. Instead, Miss S continued with the case which the court then struck out, ordering her to pay all the costs. That might have been avoided.
Miss S has referred to a note prepared by her barrister explaining why, in his opinion, the 
case wasnt struck out due to procedural error. He said it was done after a lengthy hearing 
about the merits of the case. But he didnt refer to the judges comments about breaching the 
procedure rules and practice directions. He wasnt giving an impartial view, since he had 
been involved in drafting the particulars which were criticised by the judge. And he didnt 
refer to the fact Miss S was in breach of other policy conditions too. Taking these factors into 
account, I think it was reasonable for F&L to maintain its position.
F&L says these were conditions precedent to cover  meaning if they are breached, there 
is no cover. I still need to consider whether it was fair to apply these terms. I know the events 
leading to the court case and the litigation itself were very distressing for Miss S, and having 
her claim rejected has added to that  particularly as she now faces a large legal bill. But 
taking all of these circumstances into account, I think F&Ls decision not to provide cover 
was fair. It wouldnt be fair to expect F&L to pay costs where those costs have arisen as a 
result of the way Miss S case was dealt with.
F&L didnt provide a final response to Miss S complaint as required under the relevant rules. 
It wanted to see the full file of papers from the solicitors, which were not provided. In any 
event, while a final response wasnt provided F&L had set out its position so Miss S was 
aware of the reasons for her claim being rejected and was able to refer her complaint to this 
Service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman