DRN-4002907
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that Vacation Finance Limited (VF) didnt fairly or reasonably 
deal with their complaint under Sections 75 or 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) in respect of a holiday product purchased in May 2019.   
What happened
In or around May 2019, Mrs B and Mr B agreed to purchase a points-based timeshare 
product from a company Ill call A. To fund the purchase, Mrs B and Mr B traded in their 
existing timeshare product and paid an additional £8,950 of which £6,265 was financed 
through a 10-year fixed term loan with VF.
In or around January 2021, Mrs B and Mr B submitted a complaint to VF. They said:
the loan agreement was void and unenforceable as it didnt make clear the total price 
of the purchase. Rather it only stated the total exchange cost of £8,950;
cheaper funding options werent explored in order to encourage them to complete the 
transaction on the day;
A used aggressive commercial practices;
the product benefits were misrepresented;
means testing for the loan/transaction was cursory; and
A has now gone into liquidation.
Due to the ongoing investigations following As entry into liquidation, VF werent able to 
provide Mrs B and Mr B with their final response within an eight-week period. So, Mrs B and 
Mr B referred their complaint to this service.
After they referred their complaint to this service, VF did write to us with their findings. In 
response to Mrs B and Mr Bs allegations of misrepresentations and an unfair relationship 
claim, they said they could find no evidence which leads them to conclude the timeshare 
product had been mis-sold or misrepresented. They also maintained that VF had lent to Mrs 
B and Mr B in a responsible manner, so didnt uphold their complaint.
One of our investigators considered all the evidence and information available and thought 
Mrs B and Mr Bs claim shouldve been accepted by VF. To put things right, our investigator 
thought VF should:
cancel the remaining loan and refund all payments made, adding 8% simple interest 
onto those payments up to the point of settlement;
pay Mrs B and Mr B £2,685, being the cash contribution paid at the point of 
purchase, plus 8% simple interest up to the point of settlement;
refund any maintenance fees paid by Mrs B and Mr B under the timeshare product 
agreement  subject to evidence of payment being provided; and
amend Mrs B and Mr Bs credit reports to remove any mention of the loan.
VF suggested an alternative offer, but Mrs B and Mr B didnt accept that. So, VF ultimately 
agreed to our investigators suggested resolution.
Mrs B and Mr B didnt accept out investigators proposed resolution. They wanted VF to pay 
a further £22,756 as they said this was the value of the timeshare product theyd traded in 
against the new product purchased. 
As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint was passed to 
me to reach a final decision. Having considered the relevant information about this 
complaint. I reached a different outcome to the investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 23 February 2023  giving Mrs B, Mr B and VF the opportunity to 
respond to my findings before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
Where the purchase price paid for a product or service is funded with a fixed sum 
loan, Section 75 of the CCA can apply to the whole transaction. Where it does, it 
means the purchaser (in this case, Mrs B and Mr B) could claim against the creditor 
(VF) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier (A) in the same 
way they couldve claimed against that supplier. However, section 75 only applies 
where the cash price (or equivalent) of the product or service purchased is more than 
£100 but no more that £30,000.
Mrs B and Mr B have provided evidence that suggests the timeshare product they 
purchased included the trade in of a timeshare product they already held. VF have 
told this service that the purchase price of Mrs B and Mr Bs points-based product 
shouldve been £16,374. And as such, a trade in value was applied of £7,424. But I 
havent seen anything else that confirms either the total cash price of the product 
purchased or the value that was attributed to the timeshare traded in from the time of 
the sale.
Mrs B and Mr B has repeatedly insisted that the previous timeshare held was worth 
£22,756 suggesting that the purchase price of the new points-based product was 
£31,706. If thats the case, because this is more than £30,000, section 75 wouldnt 
apply here, and a claim couldnt be made.
However, where a related credit agreement does exist, Section 140A of the CCA 
does allow The Courts to determine whether an unfair relationship exists as a result 
of that and any related agreement(s). The Courts can award a debtor (Mrs B and Mr 
B) a remedy if its found the relationship between a creditor (VF) and a debtor is 
unfair, on the basis of:
(a) any terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of their rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement; or
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after making of the agreement or any related agreement.
Section 140A is concerned with the (alleged) unfairness of the relationship, not the 
agreement. And because the debtor/credit relationship continues up to the point the 
agreement ends (here, thats the loan), any limitation to make a claim doesnt 
correspond with the date of that agreement, rather when that agreement ends. Its 
important to recognise that only a court is able to make that determination. But as its relevant law, Ive considered this when deciding what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome here.
What happened
Its important to recognise that where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, 
incongruent or contradictory, my decision is made on the balance of probabilities  
which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened given the evidence thats available from the time and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B believe the credit agreement is void and unenforceable, not least 
because it doesnt clearly show the total cash price of the product purchased. The 
credit agreement shows a cash price of £8,950 but makes no reference to any trade 
in value attributed to the timeshare product Mrs B and Mr B previously owned. Ive 
not found any requirement within the CCA to include any trade in value within the 
credit agreement. The cash sum paid to upgrade Mrs B and Mr Bs existing 
timeshare product was £8,950, and this is what was included. And this figure 
corresponds with the information detailed within the purchase agreement provided by 
A. Having considered this carefully, Im not persuaded that this would give any cause 
to invalidate or otherwise make the credit agreement unenforceable.
Mrs B and Mr B suggest A used unfair and aggressive sales practices. That said, Im 
aware theyd previously bought and owned timeshare products through A before. The 
first of these was in 2010 followed by their agreement to upgrade that product in 
2016. So, Mrs B and Mr Bs relationship with A appears to have been ongoing for 
around nine years up to and beyond the point of the most recent purchase.
I think its reasonable to conclude that Mrs B and Mr B would have been familiar with 
attending sales meeting with A, and the sales practices they employed. And while 
some purchasers mightve perceived those sales presentations to be aggressive, I 
think Mrs B and Mr B had sufficient experience and knowledge to ensure such 
meetings didnt create a relationship that could be considered unfair.
Mrs B and Mr B allege the points-based timeshare product they were sold was 
misrepresented to them. As Ive already said, based upon their insistence that the 
total transaction value exceeded £30,000 in value, they wouldnt be able to make a 
claim for misrepresentation under section 75. But due to a lack of clarity, Ive still 
considered the alleged misrepresentations and also whether theyd give cause to an 
unfair relationship.
Much of Mrs B and Mr Bs concerns relate to the equivalent value of the points-based 
product they purchased relative to their previously defined timeshare. They suggest 
that changes in the buying power of their points, over time, means the benefits they 
derive have eroded. Ive seen a copy of the membership application and associated 
terms and conditions. They refer to the Standard Information Document, the Rules of 
Membership, the Reservation Rules and the Deed of Trust. Unfortunately, these 
documents havent been provided. But Mrs B and Mr B have signed the Membership 
Application confirming theyd received them.
Having considered the agreement they signed together with VFs summary of the 
benefits under the points-based product, I dont think its a simple task of comparing 
like with like. The points-based products appears to offer greater flexibility and choice 
in terms of locations and experiences than the previous product theyd held. So, I 
think its reasonable and likely this would be valued differently.
Theres also a suggestion Mrs B and Mr B were told the new product would have a 
resale or second-hand market value, albeit not immediately. They also said theyd 
been told previously that their timeshare(s) would have an investment value. I can only consider the product purchased in 2019 as this is the transaction complained 
about. Ive found nothing within the documentation provided to support these 
suggestions. So, I cant reasonably conclude that this was included as a key feature 
of the product they purchased.
Mrs B and Mr B say they were led to believe they could use their points to stay at 
luxury resorts all over the world at no significant cost. Furthermore, that the points 
could be used to secure holidays in the UK. But they couldnt find many options that 
suited their needs and booking had become more challenging.
Ive found nothing within the documentation provided that gives any guarantees 
about availability or costs. Its also relevant that the points-based product applied to 
their 2020 membership year onwards. So, I think its likely that availability may well 
have been impacted by the effects of the global pandemic at the time. And I dont 
think that couldve reasonably been foreseeable.
Can the points-based products still be used?
Mrs B and Mr B are aware that A subsequently entered an insolvency process 
resulting in the business being liquidated. The suggestion being theyre no longer 
able to use their membership to book holidays and experiences which might 
constitute a breach of contract.
My own research revealed that the liquidator was quickly able to engage a new 
company to manage product holdings and memberships sold by A. That company 
established a website that remains active and is accessible and available for use by 
all members and holders of the product type Mrs B and Mr B have. Having looked at 
that website, it appears to provide access to all the benefits and options associated 
with the product they hold. And because of that I cant reasonably find any grounds 
for a contract breach or misrepresentation.
Was the loan application adequately means tested?
The rules and guidance relevant at the time were set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). These required VF to 
carry out an assessment using reasonable and proportionate checks to determine 
whether Mrs B and Mr B could afford to repay their loan in a sustainable way. Those 
checks needed to be borrower focussed and consider whether making the 
repayments could result in financial difficulties for Mrs B and Mr B.
In cases where there isnt evidence that proportionate checks were carried out, I 
need to consider if proportionate checks would likely have shown the credit was 
sustainably affordable.
VF confirm they took steps to comply with the FCAs CONC rules and had a credit 
and lending policy in place. They dont agree that the checks they completed were 
inadequate. They havent provided specific details of the checks they did complete. 
So, Ive thought about whether those checks mightve revealed that the loan wasnt 
sustainably affordable.
Mrs B and Mr B havent made any suggestion theyve had problems meeting their 
repayments. Or that making them had given cause to personal financial difficulties. 
And Ive also not seen anything else to suggest that was the case. So, whether or not 
the checks completed by VF were adequate, I cant reasonably say that Mrs B and 
Mr B suffered loss as a result.
I also think its relevant that since the complaint was referred to this service, it 
appears VF have written off any amount remaining under the loan agreement.  
SummaryAssuming Mrs B and Mr Bs assertions are correct, and the total transaction value 
was in excess of £30,000, I dont believe a claim under section 75 of the CCA can be 
made. In any event, Ive considered the points made by Mrs B and Mr B here as it 
appears unclear what the actual cash value attributed to the transaction was.
Their interpretation of what they were told about the product benefits appears to vary 
from what Ive seen in the documentation provided. I accept their understanding and 
expectations of what they were sold may differ from what the relevant paperwork 
suggests. But, based on everything thats been said and/or provided so far, while I 
certainly dont doubt the honesty of their recollections, Im not persuaded that there 
were one or more representations that were factually untrue. 
Ive carefully considered everything Mrs B and Mr B have told this service in relation 
to their complaint together with the evidence and documentation available from the 
time. Overall, thinking about the circumstances at the time of the sale and how the 
sales process took place, I also think its unlikely a court would determine this 
created an unfair relationship under S140A of the CCA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, VF agreed with my findings and confirmed they dont 
intend to make further representations unless further information is received from Mrs B and 
Mr B that could lead to a change in the proposed outcome.
Mrs B and Mr B didnt accept my findings and provided a detailed submission explaining why 
they didnt agree with my provisional decision. My role doesnt require me to list the 
substantive points in detail within my decision. But I would like to assure all parties that I 
have considered every point raised very carefully. 
Although by no means an exhaustive summary, Mrs B and Mr B:
believe my findings are contrary to the principle of natural justice;
said a claim has been settled for a previously purchased timeshare, used in part 
exchange for the product purchased in this complaint;
believe VFs decision to write off the remaining loan cant be ignored;
dont remember seeing or being supplied with the required regulatory documentation 
at the time of the sale;
believe elements of their claim havent been properly considered;
point out that I havent made a finding on undisclosed commission paid by VF to A; 
and
believe that research Ive undertaken in considering their complaint wasnt 
appropriate and reaches beyond the evidence and arguments provided.
Mrs B and Mr B challenge the validity of the agreements under various regulations and 
legislation they believe should apply.  They also suggest the burden of defence lies with A, 
as the supplier, under the Timeshare Regulations. 
In considering the various points raised by Mrs B and Mr B, I want to take this opportunity to 
clarify this services role in considering their complaint. Its important to recognise that the 
complaint considered relates to whether I believe VFs response to their claim was fair and 
reasonable given all the evidence and information available to me. Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service and cant make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer 
doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue any 
claim in alternative ways.
The legal principle of natural justice relates to the rule against bias and the parties right to a 
fair hearing. It endeavours to ensure that any legal claim is decided by someone who is 
impartial and makes provision for an appeal process, where any party feels its appropriate. 
But this service doesnt provide a legal service or make legal decisions. That said, each 
party to this dispute has been provided with the chance to put forward their arguments and 
any evidence for consideration. And in issuing my provisional decision, Ive also given each 
party the opportunity to respond with any additional information and arguments they believe 
might be relevant before I reach a final decision. 
As regards another recently settled claim made by Mrs B and Mr B, Im unable to consider 
that. Not only am I not familiar with the full circumstances and evidence relating to that claim, 
but ultimately it doesnt form part of the complaint Im considering here. That being against 
VF. I cant reasonably hold VF responsible for circumstances relating to a claim to which 
they werent party.
Mrs B and Mr B acknowledge VFs decision to write off and close their outstanding loan with 
them was made without any admission of liability. But they feel this shouldnt be ignored. 
Ultimately, that was VFs own commercial decision. And I dont reasonably believe it should 
be considered as any admission or acknowledgment of fault on their behalf. 
Mrs B and Mr B suggest I havent considered whether any commission paid by VF to A was 
undisclosed to an extent that this may have resulted in an unfair relationship under section 
140A of the CCA. VF have confirmed that no commission was paid to A in this case, so 
there was no requirement to disclose this.
As regards the regulatory documentation Mrs B and Mr B were given at the time of the sale, 
I explained in my provisional decision that Id seen evidence theyd both signed the 
Membership Application Agreement in which they acknowledged receipt of those 
documents. So, while Mrs B and Mr B may not recall receiving them, the evidence 
persuades me they were provided.
This services role is to look at what we believe a business shouldve looked at when dealing 
with a complaint. This means Im expected to do more than just look at the complaint as its 
written and explained. I need to consider the whole picture based upon not only the 
information and arguments presented, but also any other aspect that I feel might be relevant. 
This inquisitorial remit means that I may find the need to consider publicly available 
information where I feel it might be relevant. So, I dont agree with Mrs B and Mr Bs 
suggestion that research Ive undertaken was inappropriate.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Bs arguments carefully. But Im not persuaded to vary from my 
original findings. In particular because my role isnt to make a finding on any legal claim Mrs 
B and Mr B may have. I can only consider whether I believe VFs response to their claim was 
fair and reasonable. And having considered everything, I believe it was. So, while I 
appreciate Mrs B and Mr B will be disappointed, I will not be asking VF to do anything more 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman