DRN-2792272
The complaint
Mr K complains that Phoenix Life Limited hasnt paid a bonus into his whole-of-life policy 
which he feels has caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
In making his complaint, Mr K is represented by his son, Mr K2.
What happened
In 1964, Mr K took out a with-profits whole-of-life policy with a predecessor business of 
Phoenix Life.
 
In February 2020, Mr K complained. He said he was disappointed with the death benefit of 
his policy and didnt think it was correct. He asked Phoenix Life to bring his policy in line as 
he didnt think the bonuses had been added to it. 
Phoenix Life said that Mr Ks whole-of-life policy had a sum assured set at the start with the 
aim of adding bonuses to increase its value over the term, but these werent guaranteed. It 
said that the sum assured of Mr Ks policy was £292 and that annual bonuses declared to 
date amounted to £1,076.85. It said that since 2001, the bonus rate had been zero. 
Phoenix Life said the returns from the assets had been affected by interest rates and other 
economic factors, such as stock market growth. The with-profits fund Mr Ks policy was in 
was disinvested from equities in 2003 to reduce the risk it was exposed to. Phoenix Life said 
that all policy holders had been sent a letter about this at that time and the information that 
the fund had no investment element was included in the policy statement each year. 
But Mr K felt that there should have been bonuses added to his policy every year. He didnt 
believe this was fair. Mr K said that Phoenix Life had earned profits over the years and not 
paid bonuses. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that the annual statements Phoenix Life had sent to Mr K said that the addition and rate 
of future bonuses wasnt guaranteed, and that information about how the policy was 
managed was available on Phoenix Lifes website. The investigator said that Phoenix Life 
had explained why it made the commercial decision to remove the annual bonus element of 
the policy in the early 2000s and he didnt see any evidence that it had breached the policy 
terms and conditions.
Mr K2 didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for Mr Ks complaint to be 
reviewed. He said that some areas of the evidence needed clarification as they had raised 
important issues about the way that the policy is administered. He said that no bonuses had 
been paid to policy holders whereas shareholders got a fixed percentage irrespective of how 
the fund performed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for much 
the same reason.
Although I do appreciate Mr K and Mr K2s strength of feeling about Mr Ks whole-of-life 
policy, I havent seen anything to suggest that Phoenix Life has acted wrongly or unfairly in 
the way it has administered it.
Because of the passing of time, there is understandably limited information available from 
the time that Mr K started his whole-of-life policy. The basic sum assured of Mr Ks policy is 
£292. The addition of bonuses over time was aimed at increasing its value, but these werent 
guaranteed. 
I fully understand Mr Ks reasons for believing that bonuses should have been added to his 
policy. But Phoenix Life has explained the reasons why it made the decision to remove the 
addition of annual bonuses and change to final bonuses and has said that this was to protect 
the fund against potential poor returns in the future. Phoenix Life has said that any surplus 
available to policyholders will be distributed as final bonuses, but these arent guaranteed. It 
has also explained the decision to disinvest the with-profits fund from equities which it said 
reduced the risk it was exposed to but also restricted it growth. These were commercial 
decisions it was entitled to make and not something that I would generally interfere with.
 
Mr K has said that he wasnt informed that the with-profits fund had been withdrawn from 
equities. However, I understand that this was communicated to affected customers in a 
mailing sent in 2003. Again, because of the time since, there are no longer any records of 
this. 
But Ive reviewed the annual statements Mr K has been sent, dating back to 2014. As well as 
giving the policy benefits, these showed Mr K that no bonus had been added for the 
particular year. They also say: The addition and rate of future bonuses are not guaranteed.
So although I do understand that Mr K has been disappointed that bonuses havent been 
added to his whole-of-life policy since 2001, I dont think that Phoenix Life has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman