DRN-4108806
The complaint
Mr D complains about the reports Fly Now Pay Later Limited, trading as Fly Now Pay Later, 
who Ill call FNPL, have made to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint FNPL, but I think they need to put things right for Mr D. Ill explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Ds agreement was due to be paid by a deposit of £147.08, followed by six monthly
instalments of £247.85 beginning in August 2019. Mr D didnt make all of the payments on 
time as he missed the payments due in November and December 2019. He then paid £100 
per month from January to May 2020, and in June 2020, he made the final payment and 
settled the agreement.
The credit file thats been provided shows that FNPL reported the agreement to have been 
four months in arrears before the default was applied, but the payment history suggests the 
arrears never exceeded three months. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says 
when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then a default may be 
registered. As the information suggests Mr D was never three months behind in his 
payments, I dont think it was fair of FNPL to register a default, and they should remove it.
Mr D has shown us a copy of his credit report which shows amounts due after the
settlement date in June 2020 and thats clearly wrong. FNPL should amend his credit file to 
show there is nothing further due after June 2020.
FNPL paid Mr D £50, and in an email in October 2022 they explained that was in relation to 
an overpayment. Ive not seen evidence that an overpayment was made but I do think it 
would be fair for FNPL to compensate Mr D for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ive 
not seen evidence of any loss Mr D incurred as a result of the inaccurate credit reporting, but 
I can imagine its caused him some distress and inconvenience. In the circumstances, I think 
£50 is sufficient compensation for that distress and inconvenience, but Im not asking FNPL 
to make another £50 payment as I think Mr D has already received that amount.
 
Putting things right
FNPL should put things right in the way Ive set out above and detailed below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Fly Now Pay Later Limited 
to:
Remove the default from Mr Ds credit files.
Amend how Mr Ds agreement is being reported to the credit reference agencies, to 
accurately show the amount in arrears for each month he was in arrears.
Ensure that nothing further is being reported as being due after the agreement was
settled in June 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman