DRN-3396632
The complaint
Mr G complains that Kingswood Law IFA gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his pension 
funds from a small self-administered scheme (SSAS) to a self-invested personal pension
(SIPP). He says their advice led to a loss when his investments later failed.
What happened
Mr G first met with Kingswood Law in November 2011 to discuss his pension. At that time
Mr G had a SSAS which hed had since 2007.
Kingswood Law say that Mr G had experienced difficulties in administrating the scheme
having previously removed the professional trustees.
In November 2011, Kingswood Law completed a fact-finding exercise with Mr G. It recorded
the following;
He was 58, married and had no financial dependants.
He was employed as a Managing Director earning an annual salary of
£65,000. He also generated an annual income of £21,000 from other sources;
He was a trustee of a SASS with a total transfer value of £171,217.87. He
also had a Personal Pension Plan with a fund value of £37,317.26. This was
invested in a with-profits (85%) and managed fund (15%);
He owned his home with his wife, valued at £350,000 with an outstanding
mortgage of £187,000;
He held investments worth £15,000 and jointly held savings of £55,000;
He was categorised as a moderately adventurous investor, scoring 8 out of
10 on a risk profile.
In December 2011 Kingswood Law sent Mr G a recommendation report. It recommended he
transfer his funds from his SSAS and open a SIPP. The report said Mr Gs investment
strategy going forward had not been set in stone, but it was most likely to include third party
loans and property. Kingswood Law recommended a specific SIPP provider which would
allow this type of investment and set out their initial and on-going fees.
Mr G accepted Kingswood Laws recommendation and the SIPP was opened in April 2012.
Mr G paid Kingswood Law 2% of the transfer value as an initial fee and agreed to pay 1%
per year for on-going advice.
In November 2012 Kingswood Law introduced Mr G to an unregulated business - Sipp Club.
Kingswood Law say Sipp Club was aimed at sophisticated or high net worth individuals and
provided information about investments that could be held in a SIPP.
Mr G made an investment in a UK hotel of around £40,000 in April 2013 and a further
£100,000 investment in a loan note for an overseas property group called Dolphin Capital in
October 2013.
In 2018 the Dolphin Capital investment failed to mature as expected and later entered into
bankruptcy proceedings in Germany where it was based. So, Mr G says hes suffered a
financial loss as a result of his investment in it.
In September 2019, Mr G complained to Kingswood Law via a professional representative.
In summary he said Kingswood Law failed to give him suitable advice when they advised
him to transfer into a SIPP, as they didnt consider the underlying investment in
Dolphin Capital. He said the investment wasnt suitable for him and hed lost out as a result.
In their response Kingswood Law said their advice to transfer into a SIPP wasnt given in
order to facilitate an investment in Dolphin Capital, as the investment happened some time
after their advice to transfer. They said their advice to transfer was because of Mr Gs
objective of moving out of the SSAS. Kingswood Law went on to say that Mr G had made
the investment in Dolphin Capital after hearing about it from Sipp Club, not Kingswood Law.
And he didnt ask them for any advice on the investment before making it himself. So,
Kingswood Law didnt think they were responsible for Mr Gs losses.
Mr G was unhappy with Kingswood Laws response and so brought his complaint to our
service. Our investigator said Kingswood Law couldnt have given Mr G suitable advice
without considering the underlying investments he was going to make. She concluded that 
Mr G had a need to transfer out of his SSAS into a SIPP, but should have been advised to 
invest in medium risk funds. And therefore, had suffered a loss as a result of 
Kingswood Laws lack of appropriate advice.
Kingswood Law disagreed with our investigators opinion. They provided a detailed
submission which in summary said;
Mr G was a high net worth individual. In January 2012, while renewing his life
cover, hed said his income was £140,000. He was also a director of several
firms and had previous investment experience.
Without their advice Kingswood Law didnt think it was fair to say Mr G would
have invested in mainstream funds.
Kingswood Law hadnt advised Mr G on the Dolphin Capital investment; hed
found that through Sipp Club who only dealt with sophisticated or high net
worth investors.
In 2014 Kingswood Law gave regulated advice to Mr G to invest in a low risk
Fund to balance out his high-risk investments.
I sent Kingswood Law and Mr G my provisional decision on 18 March 2022. In summary I 
said;
I wasnt satisfied the evidence showed Mr G was a high net worth investor. 
Kingswood Law had failed to provide Mr G with any investment advice when he 
transferred his pension from the SSAS to the SIPP. 
There was little evidence to show Mr G was experienced in investing in commercial 
property or loan notes. 
Kingswood Law had a duty to consider whether the intended underlying investments 
in the SIPP were suitable, but they didnt. 
A transfer to a SIPP could have been suitable had Kingswood Law developed a 
suitable investment strategy. 
Kingswood Law failed to demonstrate how the pension would provide an income for 
Mr G in retirement. 
I didnt think Mr G would have been introduced to SIPP Club and invested in 
Dolphin Capital if Kingswood Law had developed a suitable investment strategy 
when transferring his pension. Mr G accepted my provisional decision. Kingswood Law provided a detailed submission in 
response to my provisional decision. In summary they said;
Mr G was a sophisticated client from the outset. He was the director of a large firm and 
already had a SSAS. Hes also directed numerous other companies. 
Mr G wasnt relying on Kingswood Law to invest in funds. Hed considered and made 
numerous other investments before Dolphin Capital.
Mr G had become a high net worth client during the course of engagement with 
Kingswood Law. And hed confirmed that to Kingswood Law, Sipp Club and the SIPP 
provider.
Mr G had also made a complaint against the SIPP provider, so they didnt think he 
should be entitled to compensation from both parties.
Mr Gs complaint has now been returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G, via his representatives, provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mr G and Kingswood Law, and reach what I think is 
an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
But having reconsidered all of the evidence in this case again, Im upholding Mr Gs 
complaint for much the same reasons that I explained in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
What were Kingswood Laws responsibilities?
As a regulated firm, Kingswood Law had many rules and principles that they had to 
adhere to when providing advice to Mr G. Many of these were found in the regulators 
handbook under the conduct of business sourcebook (COBS) and principles for 
businesses (PRIN).
The most relevant rules to this complaint are;
COBS 2.1 says a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with their clients best interests.
COBS 9.2 says a firm needs to obtain the necessary information regarding 
their clients knowledge and experience in the investment field, financial 
situation and objectives.
PRIN 6 says a firm must pay due regard to their customers interests and treat 
them fairly.
PRIN 9 says a firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice.Throughout the years the regulator has also issued supplementary alerts and guidance for 
firms providing advice and recommendations in situations like this. In January 2013 the 
then regulator, the Financial Services Agency (FSA), issued an alert regarding advice to 
transfer pensions. Amongst other things, it said;
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating.
Although this alert was issued after Mr G transferred his pension, it didnt mark a change 
in the expectations placed on a business. It was sent to remind businesses of their 
existing obligations.
Did Kingswood Law comply with their responsibilities?
I dont think they did, Ill explain why.
When Mr G first approached Kingswood Law they completed a fact-find and risk 
assessment. The fact-find recorded that Mr G had a main income of £65,000 with 
£21,000 coming from another source. It recorded that he had £15,000 savings in stocks, 
shares, bonds or ISAs, and he had £55,000 saved jointly with his wife.
Kingswood Law say that Mr G was a high net worth individual. But generally, to be 
considered high net worth, consumers need to have an income over £100,000 or hold 
assets in excess of £250,000. And the fact find recorded neither of these things.
Kingswood Law say Mr Gs income increased after the fact find in early 2012, as they had 
his income recorded as £140,000 when they reviewed his life cover. I asked for evidence 
of this and Kingswood Law sent a handwritten note from the time. But the note had details 
of both Mr G and his wife. There was a £120,000 figure recorded under current finances.
But the document isnt persuasive that the £120,000 was referring to Mr Gs income alone. 
It could have easily referred to a joint income of Mr and Mrs G. Which was a similar figure 
to what was recorded as their joint income in the fact find conducted just three months 
earlier.
Mr G has also sent us his tax returns from that time. His tax return for 2011/2012 showed 
an income of around £40,000; in 2012/2013 an income of around £85,000; and in 
2013/2014 an income of around £76,000. I also havent seen sufficient evidence that his 
assets exceeded the £250,000 of assets required to be classified as high net worth.
Kingswood Law have provided evidence that Mr G filled in for his SIPP provider in 
November 2013 that indicated he thought he was a high net worth individual. They also 
provided a note of an email Mr G had sent them in January 2014 where Mr G 
acknowledged that he understood property and loan notes were for high net worth or 
sophisticated investors. Kingswood Law also say Mr G would have had to confirm to SIPP 
Club that he met their criteria too.
The evidence supports the assertion that Mr G thought he was a high net worth investor, 
even though his income and value of his assets didnt appear to have been high enough. 
Even if Mr G was a high net worth investor, the relevant rules in COBS regarding the promotion of non-standard investments didnt include the term high net worth until 
January 2014.
 
At the time of the advice in 2011, COBS described the type of client to whom these non-
standard investments could be promoted to. Which included;
A person in relation to whom the firm has undertaken an adequate assessment of his 
expertise, experience and knowledge and that assessment gives reasonable assurance, in 
light of the nature of the transactions or services envisaged, that the person is capable of 
making his own investment decisions and understanding the risks involved;
While Kingswood Law maintain it wasnt them who promoted the investments to Mr G. It 
shows that if Kingswood Law knew it was Mr Gs intention to invest in these types of 
investments, they ought to have assessed his knowledge and experience of the specific 
types of investments he was likely to make  as the FSA said in their January 2013 alert. 
At the time of the recommendation Kingswood Law gave in 2011, COBS categorised 
clients as retail or professional. To be a professional client, there was a strict criteria which 
Mr G didnt meet. 
COBS also said a business must notify their client of their categorisation before providing a 
service  especially if they were to be categorised in such a way as to limit the protections 
available to them. And Ive seen no evidence that Mr G was treated, or told he was being 
treated, as anything but a retail customer
So, even if Mr Gs income had exceeded £100,000  which I dont think it did  that wasnt 
enough to mean it was suitable for Mr G to invest in whatever he liked. Importantly here, Mr 
G was paying Kingswood Law an on-going adviser fee of 1% of his fund each year. So, his 
relationship with Kingswood Law continued to be an advisory one and they needed to act in 
Mr Gs best interest throughout their relationship.
In their suitability report Kingswood Law recorded Mr Gs objectives in seeking advice 
from them. They recorded one of his objectives as having a wider investment choice 
which now meet your current circumstances and provide a diversified portfolio in line with 
your attitude to risk.
It recorded that Mr Gs investment strategy for going forward is not set in stone it is 
most likely to include third party loans and property which you are familiar with.
The report also said Mr Gs financial goal at age 65 or earlier was to receive a 
monthly income of £6,500. And that by retirement age, Mr G was planning to have 
paid off his outstanding mortgages and have £1,500,000 jointly in savings with his 
wife. He was prepared to invest £1,000 a month into his pension.
Ive seen no dispute that Mr G approached Kingswood Law for advice about his pension. 
And I think its relatively clear that he needed it. I say that because the vast majority of his 
pension savings had been held in cash for several years, so its purchasing power is likely 
to have fallen during that time due to the effect of inflation.
Mr G says he needed help in deciding what to do with his funds. He says he was 58  so 
not too far away from retirement  and was looking for advice. But Kingswood Law initially 
failed to provide Mr G with any investment advice. And I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence as to why that was in Mr Gs best interests. Ill explain why.Kingswood Law recorded that no investment strategy was set in stone, but Mr G was likely 
to invest in loan notes or commercial property. Mr G disputes this. He says he was looking 
to Kingswood Law to advise him on what to invest in with no pre-conceived plans.
As Ive pointed out earlier, Kingswood Law had a duty to take into account the overall 
investment strategy when advising to transfer. It was Kingswood Laws role to provide Mr G 
with suitable advice and in order to do so, they needed to know his investment experience 
in the specific fields that he was intending on investing in.
While Mr M had previously invested in a commercial property. It was a hotel that he 
worked and lived in as his marital home. And he only lived there for 20 months before 
selling the hotel. Mr G says his wifes buy to let property was also a previous marital home 
which they decided not to sell due to its value dropping.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr G was particularly experienced in investing in commercial 
property, especially inside a pension wrapper which adds to the complexity of the 
arrangement. Whilst he had previously considered holding commercial property in his 
SSAS, he never did and so hadnt gained experience in this field.
Similarly, before approaching Kingswood Law I havent seen any persuasive evidence 
that Mr G was experienced in investing in loan notes either. 
Kingswood Law say that Mr G having a SSAS demonstrates that he was not a normal 
retail client. But Mr G only had a SSAS because hed considered investing in a post office 
several years beforehand. When he didnt make that investment, the funds sat in cash for 
several years. So, Mr G had never held a commercial property in his pension, and had no 
evidence of making non-standard investments of his own choosing. 
I think the pension history of Mr Gs SSAS demonstrates that without the input from an 
adviser, Mr G hadnt made any pension investment decisions for several years. It doesnt 
demonstrate, as Kingswood Law suggest, that Mr G was an experience investor who 
knew the risks of non-standard investments. 
Kingswood Law have sent us a list of several investments that Mr G either considered or 
proceeded with. But the list started from August 2012  several months after their advice 
to transfer Mr Gs pension. And considering an investment isnt the same as having had 
experience in it. Mr G has explained that many of the investments mentioned by 
Kingswood Law were either put forward by them or SIPP Club.
The rules Kingswood Law had to follow said they needed to understand if Mr G had the 
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in the 
investments they thought he was going to make in his SIPP. But it doesnt appear that 
Kingswood Law considered whether Mr G had any experience in the intended 
investments or whether they were suitable for him.
Kingswood Law also put a lot of weight on the fact Mr G has held several roles as a director 
over the years. But holding these roles doesnt mean Mr G had any greater experience or 
knowledge of non-standard investments. Theres no evidence these roles were explored 
during the fact find process in 2011 or that Kingswood Law took them into consideration as 
part of their recommendation. Mr G has explained that none of the roles exposed him to the 
types of pension investments he later made.
Another important aspect was not only Mr Gs experience in the intended investments, 
but whether that matched his attitude to investment risk and capacity for loss. Kingswood Law sent us the attitude to risk (ATR) questionnaire that both Mr G and his 
wife completed.
The questionnaire itself is incomplete as it didnt record Mr Gs scores or indicate his ATR 
on the form. But Kingswood Law said in their suitability report that Mr Gs ATR was 8 out of 
10  moderately adventurous.
But Kingswood Law had a responsibility to truly know their client. They needed to probe 
and understand his ATR. And I havent seen sufficient evidence that they did. Mr Gs 
answers to the ATR questionnaire may have led to a categorisation of moderately 
adventurous. But that doesnt mean the intended investments were suitable.
As well as Mr Gs ATR, the rules required Kingswood Law to consider Mr Gs financial 
situation so that they could be satisfied he had the capacity for loss to bear the investment 
risks. The fact-find recorded that Mr G had some savings and while he owned a house and 
buy-to-let property, both were heavily mortgaged. The buy-to-let also being on an interest 
only mortgage. The pension itself made up the vast majority of Mr Gs retirement provisions 
and he was only seven years away from his intended retirement age. So I dont think Mr G 
had a particularly high capacity for loss.
Investments in commercial property and loan notes inside a SIPP carry a high risk. Which 
is why they are usually reserved for high net worth individuals or sophisticated investors 
that have experience in those investments, have a high attitude to investment risk and also 
have the capacity to lose potentially all of the investment should it fail. And as Ive said, I 
dont think Mr G had the capacity for loss for a large proportion of his pension to be 
invested in those things. Kingswood Laws own assessment of Mr Gs ATR also didnt 
indicate it was high enough to say these investments were suitable. 
So, if it truly was Mr Gs intention to invest in these types of investments in his SIPP, 
Kingswood Law had a duty to tell Mr G that these type of investments were outside of his 
attitude to investment risk and capacity for loss.
I dont think Kingswood Law could say that this pension transfer was suitable for Mr G 
without understanding or recommending a clear investment strategy for him. After all, the 
failure to have any suitable investments held in his SSAS is what led Mr G to wanting 
advice from Kingswood Law in the first place. It was Kingswood Laws role in this case to 
provide suitable investment advice along with the transfer recommendation. And failing to 
give suitable investment advice meant that the advice to transfer without an investment 
strategy in place was unsuitable.
Kingswood Law say that by taking control of the SSAS from the professional trustees, it 
shows Mr G was comfortable in making his own investment choices. But I disagree. I say 
that because Mr G never made any investment choices in the SSAS, the funds sat in cash 
for several years. That shows that on balance, Mr G required investment advice. Thats 
further evidenced by the fact that Mr G still made no investment decisions when the money 
was transferred into a SIPP in April 2012. It wasnt until he was introduced to SIPP Club 
several months later that any investments were made at all.
Mr G has confirmed that he was interested in where his funds were invested. And he had 
previously considered  although he didnt go ahead with  an investment in a 
commercial property. But he says he wasnt experienced in choosing investments himself 
and was fully reliant on Kingswood Law to suggest and advise him on investments. And I 
think the evidence supports that.Kingswood Law claim that they tried to speak to Mr G about his investments, including a file 
note from February 2013. But that was almost a year after Mr G had transferred his funds. 
And while the note simply records a discussion topic as cash or funds for balance, 
Kingswood Law havent provided any persuasive evidence that they had any in depth 
conversation with Mr G about that or recommended funds in which Mr G should invest. And 
I havent seen any evidence Mr G insisted against any such recommendations.
In 2010, the then regulator, the FSA issued a report regarding good and poor practices 
when advising clients on investing in unregulated collective investment schemes.
It noted that a UCIS investment like a loan note could be held by a customer if the firm 
provided full advice based on a comprehensive assessment of the customers personal 
and financial situation. And if the firm considered the suitability of the recommended UCIS 
transaction as part of the customers overall portfolio risk tolerance, his ATR and the need 
for capital/income.
The report also gave examples of good practices like where a firm had set a maximum 
portfolio proportion for UCIS investments within their clients portfolio. This level was 
between 3% and 5% and was backed up by the firms robust and on-going due diligence 
and monitoring.
In response to my provisional decision, Kingswood Law maintain that Mr G was looking for 
a business or property to invest in. While that might have been the case, it was 
Kingswood Laws role to advise Mr G on his investment strategy. And as Ive shown, it may 
have been suitable to recommend a UCIS investment, if the overall portfolio was diverse 
and it fit in line with Mr Gs ATR and capacity for loss.
Kingswood Law could have left funds aside to make such an investment if that was 
suitable. But I dont think allowing Mr G to invest a large proportion of his funds in a single 
high risk investment without pointing out the risks demonstrates that Kingswood Law were 
following best practice or working in Mr Gs best interests. 
Had Kingswood Law developed an investment strategy, taking into account good industry 
practice at the time, a recommendation to transfer from a SSAS to a SIPP could have been 
suitable advice. Kingswood Law had recorded in the suitability report that it was Mr Gs 
objective to have a diversified portfolio in line with his ATR, which could have been 
achieved in a SIPP. But without an investment strategy, Kingswood Law didnt act with due 
skill, care and in Mr Gs best interests.
I think its also important to point out here that, whilst Mr Gs objectives may have been the 
reason why he sought advice, his needs in retirement should have also influenced the 
advice being given. I say that because someones objectives arent always realistic or in 
their best interests. And the overarching principles governing Kingswood Law said that it 
needed to work in its clients best interests.
Kingswood Law recorded that Mr G wanted an income of £6,500 in retirement. And the 
main purpose of a pension is to provide an income in retirement. But Kingswood Laws 
suitability report fails to address how Mr G is likely to achieve his required income in 
retirement. Thats not surprising considering Kingswood Law didnt assess the likely 
investments that were to be held in the SIPP.
Mr G had little other pensions or sources of income in retirement. So, his objective of 
having a reasonable income in retirement should have been considered as one of the most 
important. Especially considering he only had seven years until he wished to retire. Mr G 
was likely to need to access his pension within a relatively short amount of time to provide an income, which adds further weight to the fact that investing a high proportion of his 
funds in illiquid investments such as property or loan notes was unlikely to be suitable for 
him.
Kingswood Law failed to show how likely it was Mr Gs income objectives would be met 
through his transfer. Which meant Kingswood Law hadnt paid due regard to their 
clients interest as they were required to.
Would Mr G have invested in Dolphin Capital and other unregulated investments anyway?
I dont think he would have. Ill explain why.
Kingswood Law say that Mr G asked for an introduction to Sipp Club but Mr G disputes this. 
He says Kingswood Law recommended SIPP Club to him and made it sound as if SIPP 
Club were part of the same company as Kingswood Law. Kingswood Law havent provided 
any persuasive evidence that Mr G asked to be introduced to SIPP Club and it seems 
unlikely Mr G would have known about the existence of SIPP Club of his own volition. On 
balance, I think its more likely that Kingswood Laws director  also being a director of 
SIPP Club at that time  was the one who introduced Mr G to the idea.
But as Ive said, Kingswood Law should have treated Mr G as a retail customer. I think its 
likely, due to the director being involved in both companies, that Kingswood Law would 
have known the investments promoted by SIPP Club were inappropriate investments for a 
retail customer with little to no experience of non-standard investments. And so, by 
introducing Mr G to SIPP Club, they werent acting in his best interests. Therefore, I dont 
think Kingswood Law should have introduced Mr G to SIPP Club. Because in doing so, its 
recommendation that he transfer his pension to a SIPP with no alternative investment 
strategy enabled him to make the unsuitable investments.
Its also important to note that during the time Mr G received promotions from SIPP Club, 
he was still paying Kingswood Law a 1% fee for their on-going advice. And whilst being 
aware of the unsuitable investments Mr G was making, Kingswood Law failed to act in his 
best interest by stepping in and pointing out the risks and unsuitability of the investments 
he was making.
Kingswood Law say Mr G was aware of the risks of the investments he made but I havent 
seen evidence of that. As Ive said, theres no evidence Mr G was experienced in investing 
in unregulated loan notes. 
On balance I think Mr G only made investments through SIPP Club because 
Kingswood Law failed to provide him with appropriate investment advice when he first 
transferred his funds. Had they given suitable advice; he wouldnt have had a large amount 
of cash uninvested in his pension. So, it follows that it wasnt likely Mr G would have 
invested in these unregulated investments but for Kingswood Laws actions.
In summary
I havent seen any persuasive evidence that Mr G had made up his mind as to the types of 
investment he wanted to make. I also havent seen any persuasive evidence that Mr G was 
against investing in regulated, mainstream funds. Theres simply little evidence that 
Kingswood Law ever discussed investing in regulated funds until 2014. And when they did, 
Mr G accepted their recommendation and agreed to invest in them.On balance I think if Kingswood Law had recommended liquid, regulated, mainstream 
investments which were aligned to Mr Gs attitude to investment risk when he first 
transferred in 2012, theres no reason why Mr G would have gone against their advice.
There subsequently would have been no need to introduce Mr G to SIPP Club where he was 
promoted unsuitable investments. And Ive seen no compelling evidence Mr G was likely to 
have sought out that type of investment had his pension already been invested in a suitable 
way.
Therefore, I hold Kingswood Law responsible for the losses Mr G suffered by having not
been given suitable investment advice when transferring his pension.
While Mr G has made a complaint to the SIPP provider. This complaint focuses on the 
actions of Kingswood Law. And as Ive said, I think Kingswood Laws action have led to 
Mr Gs losses. I say that because the advisers role is pivotal and of primary importance. If 
Kingswood Law had acted as they should have done, Mr G wouldnt be in the position he is 
now. So despite the role the SIPP provider potentially had, I think Kingswood Law should 
meet Mr Gs losses in full. I think that approach is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. 
Any rights Mr G may have against the SIPP provider (or indeed any other party involved) 
can be assigned to Kingswood Law. In that way, if Kingswood Law thinks another business 
is responsible for all or part of Mr Gs losses, Kingswood Law can, if so advised, take action 
against that party to recover all or part of any redress paid out by Kingswood Law to Mr G. 
And, if Mr Gs complaint against the SIPP provider proceeds, the outcome of this complaint 
against Kingswood Law will be taken into account to ensure that Mr G wont recover any 
losses twice.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr G may still have transferred to the SIPP but would have 
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done 
differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr G's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Kingswood Law do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Kingswood Law must:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Kingswood Law should add interest as set out below:
Kingswood Law should pay into Mr G's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection or allowance.
If Kingswood Law is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to reclaim 
any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr G 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr G £250 for distress caused by the large reduction in his funds value 
as he neared retirement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Kingswood Law deducts income 
tax from the interest it should tell Mr G how much has been taken off. 
Kingswood Law should give Mr G a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if 
Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some FTSE UK Date of Date of my 8% simple
liquid/some Private investment final decision per year from
illiquid Investors final decision
Income Total to settlement
Return Index (if not settled
within 28
days of the
business
receiving the
complainant'
s
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this 
case. Kingswood Law should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Kingswood Law 
pays should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.If Kingswood Law is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculating the actual value. Kingswood Law 
may require that
Mr G provides an undertaking to pay Kingswood Law any amount he may receive 
from the illiquid assets in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Kingswood Law will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of 
a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was 
prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within 
the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr Gs circumstances and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business 
to pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend 
the business to pay the balance.
Kingswood Law IFA Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr G in a clear, 
simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Kingswood Law IFA Limited 
should pay Mr G the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of 
£160,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on 
the amount set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Kingswood Law IFA Limited pays Mr G the 
balance plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind 
Kingswood Law IFA Limited. It is unlikely that Mr G can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.If Kingswood Law IFA Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any 
portfolio currently illiquid should be retained by Mr G. This is until any future benefit 
that he may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by 
Kingswood Law IFA Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair 
compensation as set out above.
Kingswood Law IFA Limited may request an undertaking from Mr G that either he 
repays to Kingswood Law IFA Limited any amount Mr G may receive from the portfolio 
thereafter or if possible, transfers the portfolio to Kingswood Law at that point.
Mr G should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he
may have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I direct Kingswood Law IFA Limited to 
compensate Mr G as set out above,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman