DRN-3729705
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) incorrectly
requested the full value of her self-invested personal pension (SIPP) from her SIPP provider.
This caused her to suffer financial losses.
Mrs H is represented by Mr H.
What happened
Mrs H held a SIPP with a provider Ill call A. Her pension was invested in over 20
funds and she also held cash reserves in her SIPP. Her funds were uncrystallised. Mrs H
wanted to access some of her pension funds to provide a financial bridge until she began to
receive her state pension. And so she applied to L&G to request that £35,000 be transferred
from her SIPP to L&Gs Cash Out Retirement Plan. Mrs H intended to purchase a three-year
fixed term annuity and use some of the funds to take 25% tax-free cash. As Mrs Hs SIPP
with A included cash reserves, shed intended that the cash be transferred to L&G, without
her funds needing to be disinvested.
L&G received the application on 13 May 2020. It requested the pension funds from A on the
same day via an online transfer platform called Origo. However, it requested a transfer of all
of Mrs Hs SIPP funds from a drawdown plan. A turned down this request, as Mrs H didnt
hold a drawdown plan with it. So L&G sent a further transfer request via Origo on 8 June
2020  again for the full value of Mrs Hs SIPP, rather than the partial transfer shed asked
for.
A disinvested Mrs Hs full SIPP funds on 2 July 2020 and let Mrs H know that itd done so.
Mrs H got in touch with A to ask it to pause the transfer, as this wasnt what shed wanted.
L&G sent the correct request via Origo on 14 July 2020 for the partial transfer of £35,000.
The funds were received by L&G on 18 August 2020. Mrs H took £8750 as tax-free cash,
with L&G paying an annuity of £8706.60 gross per year, in monthly instalments. Mrs H
received her first annuity payment on 27 August 2020.
Mrs H was unhappy that L&G had wrongly requested the full value of her SIPP from A,
rather than the partial transfer shed applied for. She said shed lost out financially because
her funds, which had been built up over a number of years, had been disinvested. And
therefore, shed incur losses in reinvesting the liquidated funds.
L&G accepted that itd made an error when it requested a transfer of the full value of Mrs Hs
SIPP. But it understood that Mrs H had begun reinvesting her SIPP funds on 17 August
2020. And it concluded that by 18 August 2020, when it had received the correct transfer of
£35,000, Mrs H had been in a position to reinvest her disinvested funds. Mrs H initially
indicated to L&G that her losses due to lost growth were around £450. Therefore, it offered
to pay Mrs H £500 to reflect the lost portfolio growth between 2 July and 18 August 2020,
and it said it would arrange a payment of £250 for her trouble and upset.
Mrs H remained unhappy with L&Gs stance. In February 2021, she told it that her SIPP
funds had been reinvested at an additional cost of around £5934. She felt that L&G should
pay her a total amount of £10,000, to represent the additional cost of reinvestment; an
additional tax burden she was likely to incur as a result of receiving the annuity later than
shed planned and to represent her distress, time and inconvenience. Mr H asked us to look
into Mrs Hs complaint.
Our investigator asked Mrs H and A for some further information about the reinvestment of
the SIPP funds and when Mrs H had started reinvesting them. A told us that Mrs Hs
liquidated SIPP funds were available for reinvestment on 3 July 2020. It also told us that itd
recorded the loss figure of £5934 at Mrs Hs request, but it could only speculate how this
amount had been calculated. Mr H told us that L&G had done nothing to correct its error and
queried whether we expected victims to repair the damage caused by L&G itself. Having
given up on a proper response from L&G, theyd decided to reinvest the funds with A
themselves on 27 January 2021. Mr H also told us that Mrs H no longer wished to pursue
the part of the complaint which related to potential further tax losses.
The investigator thought L&G had made a fair offer to resolve Mrs Hs complaint. He
considered itd been fair for L&G to rely on the loss figure Mrs H had given it in September
2020, when calculating the loss its error had caused her. And he didnt think it wouldve been
fair to require L&G to keep any potential loss ongoing until such time as Mrs H had
reinvested the liquidated funds. So he concluded that £500 was a reasonable sum to put
right Mrs Hs actual financial loss. He also felt that £250 compensation was fair to reflect the
impact L&Gs error had had on Mrs H.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator and Ive summarised his responses:
L&Gs error had been made against a lack of background controls and a lack of
security controls at A;
L&G had never paid the £250 compensation itd offered;
L&G had offered £1500. Our investigator asked for evidence of this offer, but to date,
this has not been received;
L&G had done nothing to put things right  it didnt tell Mrs H what to do once her
funds had been liquidated. She hadnt reinvested the liquidated funds on 17 August
2020, as L&G hadnt told her how to do so with a shortfall. Instead, shed made an
unrelated investment with A. The earliest they couldve reinvested was November
2020, when L&G issued its response to their complaint, but it hadnt explained the
reinvestment process. It hadnt attempted to reinstate her funds  it had simply
sought to limit its own liability;
L&G had slightly increased its compensation offer to £764. But this amount bears no
relation to the actual reinvestment value;
L&G shouldve asked A to reverse the mistaken transfer request at the time;
The operational controls surrounding pension transfers were non-existent. L&G had
had no authority to request liquidation of the fund and A shouldnt have done so
without checking Mrs H agreed to it.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 August 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld in part. I said;
First, its important that I explain our role. Were not the industry regulator and so we have 
no power to tell a financial business how it should operate or to change its processes. This
means I cant tell L&G to change the way it processes pension transfer requests, or what
systems should be in place. And L&G isnt responsible for the way Origo works  this is a
separate platform, which isnt owned by L&G and it is widely used to carry out pension
transfers between pension providers. I must also make clear that this decision only concerns
L&G and how it handled Mrs Hs transfer request. I cant look here into any concerns Mrs Hhas about how A handled the requests it received from L&G via Origo.
Mrs H is understandably very unhappy that L&G wrongly requested the full value of her SIPP
funds from A. Ive seen a copy of her Cash Out Retirement Plan application form. Mrs A
clearly indicated that she only wanted £35,000 to be transferred from her SIPP to L&G and
that this amount wasnt her full pension fund. Despite this, L&G agrees that it wrongly sent a
request for Mrs Hs full pension funds. This led to A liquidating her investment funds, when it
appears she had the cash reserves to allow the transfer to take place without any need for
disinvestment at all. I dont doubt how frustrating and worrying this was for Mrs H when she
learned from A about the instruction itd been given by L&G and the action it had taken
accordingly.
I appreciate Mrs H feels that L&G ought to have told her how to go about reinvesting the
funds, or indeed, reinstate them itself. I appreciate that any decision about what to do with
Mrs Hs SIPP funds needed to be made by her and communicated to A to be actioned. L&G
had no authority to reinstate the disinvested funds itself. With that said, I do think that L&G
couldve let Mrs H know it would pay her any financial loss she suffered in reinstating her
funds as a result of its mistake. And I think it couldve been clearer in letting her know that
she had a choice to reinstate the disinvested funds if she wished to. It doesnt appear though
that L&G gave Mrs H any such communication or took any real lead in trying to help Mrs H
sort things out.
As L&G made a clear error, which it promptly acknowledged, it needed to ensure Mrs H was
placed in as close to the position that she wouldve been in but for that error. In this case, it
means that if Mrs H suffered any loss of growth of her investment funds as a result of the
liquidation or any reinvestment fees, L&G would be responsible for paying them. This is to
ensure that Mrs Hs position wasnt prejudiced by L&Gs failing.
I can see that L&G asked Mrs H if she could tell it about any financial disadvantage shed
suffered. Mrs H responded by email on 27 September 2020 and said:
I had cash in mypension pot to purchase the L&G annuity, no investments should have
been sold. As it was, all of my portfolio was sold, value £83,071. To re-purchase the
investments (valued at 26 September) would cost £83,502, an extra £431.
So if I re-bought now, I would lose £431, plus the cost of selling the portfolio, plus the cost of
buying back, plus any income between selling and re-buying.
On 20 October 2020, Mrs H let L&G know that shed assessed her loss at £10,000. L&G
requested information from A about her potential losses and it appears that Mrs H did so too.
However, little information was forthcoming from A. L&G asked for clarification as to how Mrs
H had quantified her loss, given the marked increase between the estimate shed provided in
September and the estimate around a month later. I dont think this was an unreasonable
request from L&G  in my view, it was entitled to see evidence of the financial losses Mrs H
had said shed sustained.
In the absence of such detailed evidence from either Mrs H or A, L&G had to assess Mrs Hs
likely loss based on its own investigations. It concluded that A didnt charge buying or selling
fees for funds. Ive checked As website, and this still appears to be the case. It noted that
Mrs H had invested SIPP funds on 17 August 2020  which it said tied-in with when it
received the correct transfer funds from A on the following day. So it decided that Mrs H
could reasonably have reinvested the liquidated funds by 18 August 2020.
As such, L&G was able to calculate the cost of repurchasing Mrs Hs portfolio on 18 August
2020, using published unit prices from a reputable source of information. This showed thatthe cost on that date wouldve been £83,833.09. This was a difference of £762.13 between
Mrs Hs fund on the date her SIPP was liquidated and 18 August 2020. It therefore told Mrs
H it would review its original £500 loss offer.
Currently, I think L&G should pay Mrs H £762.13 to represent the actual loss it caused her. I
say that because Im satisfied its provided enough evidence to demonstrate that this is the
likely amount Mrs H wouldve paid had she reinvested her SIPP into the same portfolio on 18
August 2020. This was around 45 days after Mrs Hs SIPP was liquidated. A told us that Mrs
H couldve reinvested her funds from 3 July 2020.
While I can understand why Mrs H may have wanted to resolve her complaint with L&G
before reinvesting her funds, I think it wouldve been reasonable for her to try and mitigate
her financial losses. She seems to have been aware that the costs of reinvestment were
likely to continue to rise and also that she could lose out on potential income and growth.
And so I think she ought to have sought to limit her potential losses and L&Gs potential
liabilities. In my opinion, 45 days was a reasonable timeframe for her to discuss her options
with A and seek the reinvestment of her liquidated funds. I dont think it would be reasonable
for me to find that L&G should be liable to pay any ongoing increased reinvestment costs
between 18 August 2020 and 27 January 2021, as I consider Mrs H couldve reinvested her
funds much sooner than she did.
And in the absence of any evidence from A that L&Gs calculation of £762.13 is substantially
inaccurate and that it wouldve cost more for Mrs H to reinvest her funds on 18 August 2020,
I presently find that this award is fair and reasonable.
L&G also said it would pay Mrs H £250 compensation for her trouble and upset. As Ive set
out above, I dont doubt how upsetting it was when Mrs H learned about L&Gs mistake. And
as Ive referred to above, I dont think L&G clearly communicated Mrs Hs options to her at
an early stage. Neither do I think it took direct action to put things right as quickly as it should
have, nor did it seem to take responsibility for its mistake at an early point. Its clear too that
Mrs H was put to some time and inconvenience in dealing with the mistake and in needing to
contact A to reinvest her funds. Mrs H also then experienced an unnecessary delay in
receiving her annuity payments, which I think is likely to have caused her additional
frustration, given the reason for taking the annuity was to provide a financial bridge. And Mr
H told us that Mrs H had to borrow money from family and friends due to this delay, which I
think is also likely to have caused her some distress. In my view then, I currently find an
award of £400 total compensation (inclusive of L&Gs original compensation offer) to reflect
Mrs Hs trouble and upset appears fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence or comments they wished 
me to consider.
L&G had nothing further to add.
Mrs H didnt accept my provisional findings and so Ive summarised the further 
representations Mr H made on her behalf:
L&Gs story around what had happened in August 2020 was a lie. Mrs H had made a 
small investment in an unrelated fund, using cash. It was nothing to do with the 
liquidated fund and wasnt the start of the re-invested monies. It was convenient for 
L&G to latch onto this date, but it wasnt true. He also questioned how L&G had 
become aware of this transaction. Mrs H hadnt given permission for A to share such 
information and so L&G had obtained it illegally. For me to endorse this reasoning 
was endorsing a lie and an illegal act;Id incorrectly stated that A had said it could only speculate how the amount had 
been calculated. As platform recorded all of the transactions and it was a simple 
matter of subtraction to find the difference between the liquidation transactions and 
the reinvestment transactions;
Mrs H had kept the liquidated funds ring-fenced until January 2021, as shed 
expected L&G to take responsibility for its actions. She couldnt have reinvested 
without injecting more funds. Shed felt L&G had to agree to cover those additional 
funds. The claim of £10,000 was intended to cover the variable and increasing capital 
loss, liquidation costs, loss of income and compensation;
L&Gs settlement should be based on at least the actual capital loss of £5934.30, 
which had been checked by A.
I hadnt charged L&G any penalty and awarded Mrs H no compensation. I had given 
the impression that L&Gs behaviour was ok and my conclusions were heavily biased 
towards L&G with minimal support for the victim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and Ill explain 
why.
Its clear that Mrs H feels strongly that A has shared information with L&G about the 
transactions on 17 August 2020, which she believes L&G wasnt entitled to see. As I set out 
in my provisional decision, I am only considering L&Gs actions and how it handled Mrs Hs 
transfer request. I am not looking into any concerns Mrs H may have about the way A 
handled information relating to her SIPP transaction history. And I think L&G clearly 
explained to Mrs H how it had obtained this information in its final response to her complaint. 
It said:
The documentation (A) sent us suggested you started re-investing the proceeds of the 
disinvested pension on 17 August 2020.
In my view, L&G was entitled to rely on the evidence it was sent by A when assessing Mrs 
Hs financial loss and her complaint. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that L&G acted 
unreasonably or illegally in this regard. Whether the transaction was an unrelated one or not 
(and L&G concluded it wasnt), the evidence still shows that Mrs H was actively investing on 
17 August 2020. By this point the wrongly liquidated funds had already been available for 
reinvestment for around five weeks. 
Mr H says the funds were ring-fenced until January 2021, as Mrs H expected L&G to take 
responsibility for its actions. Its clear though that in mid-September 2020, L&G had told Mrs 
H that it would look to review her losses as a result of its mistake. On 27 September 2020, 
Mrs H gave L&G a potential loss value of £431, plus lost income and charges. It seems to 
me then that by mid-September at the latest, Mrs H knew that L&G was seeking to 
compensate Mrs H for financial loss she incurred as a result of its error. This didnt mean 
that L&G accepted ongoing liability for an indeterminate period and it wouldnt be fair for me 
to find that it should do so.
It remains the case then that I still think it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs H to try and 
mitigate her financial losses. As I explained above, she seems to have been aware that the 
cost of reinvestment was likely to continue to rise and also that she could lose out on 
potential income and growth. So I still find that she ought to have sought to limit her potential 
losses and L&Gs potential liabilities. And I remain persuaded that 45 days was a reasonable timeframe for her to discuss her options with A and seek the reinvestment of her liquidated 
funds. I dont think I could fairly find that L&G should cover Mrs Hs losses until January 
2021, as I remain satisfied that she couldve reinvested much sooner than she did.
Turning to the loss itself, Mr H considers that Mrs H had demonstrated her actual capital loss 
had been £5934.20, which had been checked by A. However, A told our investigator that it 
hadnt calculated this figure and it couldnt comment whether or not it was correct.
But regardless of this figure and whether or not the calculation of it was correct, it still seems 
to me that the funds couldve been reinvested from 18 August 2020 onwards. The figure of 
£5934.20 appears to have been calculated some time after I think Mrs H could reasonably 
have reinvested her funds. For that reason, I think it was reasonable for L&G to calculate 
Mrs Hs losses from that time, using published unit prices from a reputable source.
As I explained, Ive found that it was fair for L&G to calculate Mrs Hs losses up until 18 
August 2020. And Im satisfied that L&G took reasonable and appropriate steps to calculate 
what Mrs Hs actual losses were at this point  an amount of £762.13. I remain persuaded 
that this amount represents the financial and evidenced loss which I can reasonably hold 
L&G responsible for.
Mr H has raised concerns that I havent applied a penalty to L&G. As were not the regulator, 
I have no power to fine or penalise the financial businesses we cover. Our role is to consider 
whether a financial business error has caused a consumer to lose out or suffer material 
distress and inconvenience and if so, how it should put things right. In this case, Ive set out 
how I think L&G should put right the financial loss which I think can reasonably be found to 
have flowed from its error. And Ive also awarded total compensation of £400 to reflect the 
trouble and upset I think L&Gs actions caused her. I still find that this represents fair and 
reasonable compensation for the material distress and inconvenience L&Gs error caused 
Mrs H.
In summary, I now direct L&G to pay Mrs H £762.13 to represent her financial loss and a 
total amount of £400 compensation (less the £250 its already offered if it hasnt paid this 
amount). I find this is fair compensation to put right L&Gs mistake.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to:
Pay Mrs H £762.13 to represent her financial losses. L&G must add interest to this 
amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from 18 August 2020 until the date settlement 
is paid.
Pay Mrs H a total of £400 compensation (inclusive of the £250 compensation its
already offered if it hasnt already paid this amount.) This compensation must be paid
within 30 days of any final decision being accepted. If the compensation is not paid
within 30 days of decision acceptance, then L&G will also need to pay interest on the
compensation amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from that date onwards until
the date its paid.
If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Mrs H how much it has taken off. It should also give Mrs H a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman