DRN-3584692
The complaint
Mr H complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) made two payments from his 
share dealing account to a bank account which wasnt his. He also complains about the poor 
service he received when he brought this to HSDLs attention and when he complained.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr H logged onto his share dealing account and changed the nominated 
bank details. Unfortunately he typed in the wrong sort code by mistake. On 15 January 2021 
he made two payments of £142.31 and £500. On 22 January, when he realised the money 
hadnt been credited to his bank, he realised his mistake and he phoned HSDL. He says 
HSDL reassured him it would be able to claim the money back for him.
Mr H told us that he had difficulties getting through to HSDL, that promised call backs didnt 
happen, and that he received continuing poor service when he complained.
HSDL said it hadnt made an error  it had paid the money to the account provided by Mr H. 
But it accepted it should have acted more promptly when Mr H contacted it and offered him 
£100 for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that it was HSDLs fault that the money had been paid to the wrong account. She 
thought HSDL should have acted sooner when Mr H contacted it, but she couldnt conclude 
this would have made a difference to Mr H getting his money back. She thought HSDLs 
offer of £100 was fair and reasonable.
Mr H didnt agree. In particular he thought HSDLs delay in trying to retrieve the money had 
made a difference to the chances of him receiving the money back.
My first provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld. Briefly, I thought that HSDL should reasonably 
have done more to check that the account Mr H had nominated had been verified as an 
account in his name. I thought HSDL should pay Mr H £642.31 (the money hed transferred), 
plus interest. 
And I thought HSDL should pay Mr H £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
HSDL didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
There isnt a regulatory obligation for it to check that the nominated account is in the 
customers name. And anti-money laundering regulations dont apply.
The provisional decision suggests HSDL should change the way it operates  but this is 
outside of the ombudsman services jurisdiction.
My second provisional decision
Having considered HSDLs comments and reconsidered its terms and conditions and 
regulatory obligations, I reached a different conclusion. I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint and I explained why. I said:
Id previously concluded that it was Mr Hs responsibility to provide the correct 
nominated bank details. And that remains my conclusion.
Theres nothing in HSDLs terms and conditions which obligate it to check that the 
account details that Mr H provided were for an account in his name. And it wasnt 
unreasonable for it to rely on Mr H to provide the correct information about his own 
account.
I dont agree with HSDL that its anti-money laundering obligations arent relevant 
here. Its allowed a payment to a third-party account. But, taking into account the 
obligation to check and verify payments, accounts, and individuals is on a risk-based 
approach, I dont find it acted unreasonably in allowing the payments without 
undertaking any checks. I say this because the two payments werent particularly 
large or unusual.
Ive gone onto think about whether HSDL had any obligation as a payment service 
provider to check the payee account matched the account details provided by Mr H. 
But HSDL didnt fulfil the role of a payment service provider in the transaction. It 
allowed Mr H to withdraw his money from its bulk client money account and to pay an 
account with the details he provided. It was HSDLs bank that had the payment 
service provider role. It may have been useful for Mr H if HSDL had reminded him he 
needed to make sure he input the correct bank details as the payee of the account 
might not be checked. But I dont find HSDL had an obligation to do this. And, as it 
has suggested, my role is to resolve individual disputes. I cant order a business to 
change the way it operates. Thats the responsibility of the regulator.
Overall, I dont find HSDL was obliged to check the bank details provided by Mr H 
and, in the circumstances, I cant order it to repay the payments that were made to 
that account.
Ive also reconsidered the service HSDL provided when Mr H contacted it to find out 
where the payments had gone. I remain of the opinion that HSDL should have 
contacted its bank and asked it to try to retrieve the payments much earlier than it 
did. But I cant conclude that, had it acted earlier, the payments would have in all 
likelihood been successfully retrieved. For that reason, I cant order HSDL to repay 
the payments because it was slow to act and provided poor customer service. But I 
do still think £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the failings in its service caused.
Mr H was understandably disappointed by my second provisional decision. He set out in 
some detail why he thought HSDL should reimburse him and why he thought it had failed in 
its regulatory obligations. In summary, he said:
Inputting the incorrect bank details was simply due to human error. HSDL failed to 
safeguard him because it didnt verify the name on the account details he entered.
HSDL breached its obligations, and failed in its customer service, because it didnt do 
everything it could to recover the money when it was sent to the wrong account.
Mr H set out what he thought HSDLs obligations were. He said HSDL didnt provide him with details of its investigation. And that this has 
prevented him taking legal action to recover the money.
HSDL was obliged by the Financial Payment Regulator to introduce confirmation of 
payee by 30 June 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H responded in detail to my second provisional decision and Im aware that Ive 
summarised what he said in far less detail. Im not going to respond to every single point 
hes made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H says HSDL hasnt fulfilled its obligations under the Payment Service Regulations. But 
these regulations only apply to payment service providers. Mr H brings this complaint as a 
consumer of HSDL. And, as I set out in my second provisional decision, HSDL wasnt the 
payment service provider in this transaction. HSDLs bank was the payment service 
provider. This means Im satisfied that there wasnt a regulatory obligation on HSDL to verify 
the name on the account details Mr H entered, or to provide confirmation of payee.
The payment service provider in this transaction  HSDLs bank  will have had these 
obligations. But Mr H is not a consumer of HSDLs bank and is not an eligible complainant. 
So I cant consider whether HSDLs bank fulfilled its obligations.
I fully understand why Mr H feels so strongly about this, and why he thinks HSDL, as part of 
a larger banking group, should have done more to verify the account before it allowed the 
payments to be made. But, because of the reasons Ive explained, I dont find HSDL 
breached its regulatory obligations when it didnt verify the account details Mr H provided.
Similarly, it was the payment service providers obligation to investigate and attempt to 
recover the money. I can only consider what HSDL did or didnt do. I explained in my 
provisional decision why I couldnt order HSDL to repay Mr H the money hed lost because it 
was slow to act and provided poor customer service. But why it should pay him £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Im not persuaded to change my conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr H £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman