DRN-2773832
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Santander UK Plc declined their application to port their 
mortgage and take additional borrowing.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had a repayment mortgage with Santander. It had a fixed rate of 1.59% until 
2 February 2022 and an early repayment charge (ERC) of 3% of the amount repaid 
applicable until the same date. 
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs R contacted Santander as they wanted to apply to transfer, or 
port, their mortgage to a new property and take out additional borrowing. During the call 
Mr R explained that he had furloughed himself because of the Covid-19 pandemic. It was 
later confirmed that his accountant had also applied for the government scheme for furlough 
on Mr Rs behalf and he received a one-off payment of £1,200. 
As Mr R had applied for the government scheme for furlough Santander wasnt willing to 
take Mr Rs full income and dividends into account when assessing their application. As per 
its lending policy at the time for a self-employed company director, Santander explained it 
was only able to use 80% of Mr Rs salary up to a maximum of £2,500 per month or £30,000 
per annum. This meant Santander was unable to lend the amount Mr and Mrs R requested 
as it was deemed unaffordable. Unhappy with the decision Mr and Mrs R raised a complaint. 
Santander said it had followed its lending policy correctly and having amended Mr Rs 
income as per the guidelines, the application to port the mortgage and take additional 
borrowing became unaffordable for the required loan amount. It also advised that if a self-
employed applicant wasnt eligible for the government scheme but had continued trading 
after lockdown, then it could use 50% of the lowest income for the last three years when 
assessing an application instead. Santander outlined that it had given Mr and Mrs R two 
maximum mortgage amounts dependent on whether Mr R had taken the government 
scheme for furlough or not. 
As Mr and Mrs R were unable to secure the total borrowing they needed from Santander, 
they didnt proceed further with the application. They redeemed their mortgage in 
November 2020 and incurred an ERC. They secured borrowing with a different lender to 
purchase the intended property.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. In summary, they said Santander was entitled to set its own lending criteria based on 
its own commercial judgement, and they didnt think it was unreasonable for Santander to 
take into consideration the impact Covid-19 had on Mr Rs financial circumstances. As 
Mr and Mrs R had repaid their mortgage before the fixed rate period ended, the investigator 
said it was fair for Santander to charge the ERC.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They felt that Santander 
should have taken into consideration Mr Rs full income when assessing the application to 
port and take additional borrowing. Mr and Mrs R felt they were forced to go with a new 
lender and incur the ERC.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the mortgage offer and section 8 confirms that Mr and Mrs R could apply to 
transfer their mortgage to another property. To do so they must meet the conditions set out 
in the mortgage conditions, under Transferring your loan to a new mortgage. They must also 
meet Santanders current lending criteria and pass its affordability assessment at the time.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out its rules for mortgages in its handbook under 
the section Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB). These 
rules outline that a lender must assess a customers ability to repay the mortgage before 
entering into, or agreeing to vary, a mortgage contract. 
Mr and Mrs R wanted to port their existing mortgage and take out additional borrowing. As 
they were increasing their debt and varying their contract, I dont think its unreasonable that 
Santander wanted to check Mr and Mrs Rs ability to repay the new increased mortgage  in 
line with the rules - before agreeing to lend. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that Santander wouldnt take into consideration 
Mr Rs full income when assessing the affordability of the new mortgage. I appreciate their 
frustration with this, but Santander is allowed to set its own lending criteria and affordability 
checks, using its own commercial judgement, when deciding whether or not to lend to a 
customer.
In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, Santander adapted its lending criteria to take into 
consideration the ongoing impact the pandemic might have on its customers ability to repay 
lending. For self-employed customers this meant a lower proportion of an applicants income 
could be used when assessing affordability. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr and Mrs R had with Santander in relation to their application to 
port their mortgage and take additional borrowing. In the initial call with Santanders 
Mortgage Relationship Manager (MRM), Mr R explains his business was affected by 
Covid-19 and he furloughed himself. In a follow up call with the MRM, Mrs R explains that 
Mr R received a grant for furlough which his accountant applied for  this was a one-off 
payment of £1200. 
Ive also seen Santanders lending policy at the time of Mr and Mrs Rs application. This sets 
out what income Santander can take into account when a self-employed applicant has been 
affected by the Covid-19 pandemic  as Mr R had indicated he had been. It gives two 
options which are dependent on whether an applicant received the government scheme for 
furlough or not. Having reviewed this, Im satisfied the information provided to Mr and Mrs R 
about what amount of Mr Rs income could be used in their application to port their mortgage 
and take additional borrowing was clear and correct. 
Based off the amount of income Santander could accept in the application, the MRM 
explained to Mr and Mrs R that they wouldnt be able to borrow the amount they initially 
requested. The MRM outlined the two maximum loan values Santander could lend  these 
were dependent on whether Mr R had received the government scheme for furlough or not. Mr and Mrs R decided not to proceed further with the application and instead secured 
lending with another provider. As Mr and Mrs R repaid their mortgage within the fixed rate 
period, they incurred an ERC.
I understand that Mr and Mrs R are unhappy theyve had to pay an ERC and feel they were 
forced to go with another lender or lose the property they wanted to buy. But I dont think this 
means that Santander should refund the ERC. Porting a mortgage and taking additional 
borrowing is never a guarantee and is subject to a customer meeting Santanders current 
lending criteria and affordability assessments  which as Ive said Im satisfied it applied 
fairly. 
Ultimately, the decision to repay the mortgage early and incur an ERC, in order to not lose 
the property they wanted to purchase, was Mr and Mrs Rs own choice. The mortgage offer 
they agreed to in November 2019 clearly sets out under section 7 the implications for 
repaying the mortgage early and what amount of ERC would be applicable if they did so 
before 22 February 2020. So, Im satisfied they were aware of the implications before they 
made their decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman