DRN-1286803
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont refund her for a failed ATM 
cash withdrawal.
What happened
Miss A said she went to make a cash withdrawal for £500 so that she could pay her rent. 
She said the machine told her she was over the daily limit, even though this was the first 
transaction of the day. She said she knew this was wrong, so she tried again. She said she 
tried three times in all and was at the ATM for about six minutes, but the machine didnt 
dispense any cash.
She later saw that the money had debited her account. She called Nationwide the same day, 
but they were unhelpful. She called the ATM owner, who was a high street bank. She said it 
contacted Nationwide. 
As she was worried about paying her rent, she attended a Nationwide branch the next day 
and withdrew the cash in branch. She also made a complaint about the failed ATM 
transaction.
Miss A asked Nationwide for a refund.
It made enquiries of the ATM owner who told it there had been no reported faults or errors 
with the ATM. It said its records showed that the cash had been dispensed. Also, the cash in 
the machine was reconciled nine days later and there were no discrepancies.
Nationwide decided not to refund Miss A. However, it paid £75 into her account for giving 
incorrect information about its timescales for dealing with her complaint.
As Miss A wasnt happy with Nationwides decision, she asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint but decided not to uphold it. He said the ATM 
owner provided evidence that showed that the cash had been dispensed and even the 
denominations. The ATM owner also confirmed that the machine balanced and there was no 
surplus cash.
Miss A disagreed with the investigators view. She asked for CCTV footage from the ATM 
owner.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, Im afraid Ive reached the same conclusions as those 
reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
ATMs are not infallible, and mistakes do happen. So, where a consumer complains they 
didnt receive cash from an ATM, we will ask for various data from the business. In 
particular, we ask for the journal roll, which is an electronic record of all the transactions that 
day. We will also ask for evidence that the ATM balanced that day or in that accounting 
period. If cash wasnt dispensed, then it would show as a surplus. We also ask for details of 
whether there were any reported errors with the ATM or other claims raised that day, and 
any other relevant information to demonstrate whether there was a technical fault or any 
other deficiency. Where the business is not the ATM owner, we expect it to get the data from 
the owner. We may also ask for CCTV footage, but this is usually not available after 30 days.
We will also consider the consumers description of the physical environment and people at 
the ATM.
This information helps me to reach a conclusion on what is most likely to have happened. 
Ive looked at the extract from the journal roll from the ATM provider. According to the journal 
roll, Miss A entered her debit card and PIN at 10.51am and requested £500. The journal roll 
shows that the cash was dispensed in six £10 notes and in 22 £20 notes. The transaction 
was completed at 10.52am.
Errors or declined cash withdrawals are usually recorded on the journal roll. There are no 
errors marked on the extract that Ive seen. And there was only one attempt to withdraw 
cash, not three. Miss As transaction was flanked by two other transactions by other 
customers at 10.44am and 10 54am. The journal roll also shows that these two transactions 
were successful. These timings also confirm that Miss A was at the ATM for about three 
minutes. However, I think its widely perceived that we take longer at ATMs than we actually 
do.
The ATM owner also confirmed that there were no reported faults with the ATM and that it 
balanced after nine days, meaning there was no surplus. If the £500 hadnt been dispensed, 
then we would expect to see it show as a surplus.
Ive noted that Miss A didnt say whether shed noticed anything unusual or suspicious at the 
ATM. It seems it was fairly busy at that time, with three transactions before Miss A and two 
after her. Theres no other evidence that there was a fault with the machine.
Ive considered Miss As comments about the lack of any CCTV footage. The ATM owner 
said it was no longer available by the time Nationwide requested it. And that, even if it were 
still available, it couldnt release it because of data protection laws.
Im not impressed with the way the two businesses handled this request. Miss A is the data 
subject so if she consents to disclosure of her image then that should be sufficient authority 
to release the footage. At the very least, I expect the ATM owner to check the CCTV footage 
when a complaint is made and report back. Miss A may wish to take this up with Information 
Commissioner as the response from the ATM owner leaves customers at a disadvantage.
Although I find the handling of the CCTV footage unsatisfactory, Im still left with the data 
from the journal roll, which shows that the cash was dispensed and that there were no errors 
with the machine. I think this is persuasive evidence.
 
Based on the technical evidence, Im afraid I think its more likely than not, that the ATM 
dispensed the cash and I wont be asking Nationwide to refund Miss A.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman