DRN-2312241
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Bank of Scotland PLC trading as Halifax (Halifax) 
declined Mr Gs deposits to an online gambling site - which stopped him placing a winning 
bet.
What happened
Mr G enjoys playing roulette online.  He funds this by making payments from the account he 
holds jointly with Mrs G at Halifax.  
One evening in late 2019, he was playing roulette on an online site.  In order to keep playing, 
he had to transfer money to his gambling website account.  He was able to do this a couple 
of times, but then Halifax declined further payments.
Mr G went to his local Halifax branch the next day to find out why this had happened.  
Halifax told him it was because hed not updated his security details.  So they updated the 
information while Mr G was there.
That evening, Mr G wanted to play online again.  He managed to make several deposits.  
But then Halifax declined any further deposits.  Mr G believes that this stopped him making a 
winning bet and that hes lost £198.
Mr G complained about the blocking of his payments  and that Halifax didnt reply to a letter 
hed sent to his branch manager about this.  Halifax looked into his complaint and accepted 
theyd not replied to Mr Gs letter.  They offered him £50 compensation for that.  
Halifax didnt accept at that time that theyd blocked payments to the online gambling site.  
But, in a second response to Mr G, they said that, a few days before Mr Gs payments were 
blocked, theyd blocked all payments of more than £50 to gambling sites after theyd seen an 
attempt to make an unusually large transfer.  They said the block hadnt been lifted because 
Mr G hadnt contacted them.  Halifax paid Mr and Mrs G £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to us as they werent happy that Halifax hadnt taken 
into consideration Mr Gs loss of £198 - which he said hed suffered because he couldnt 
place a winning bet.  
Our investigator considered the complaint but came to the conclusion that Halifax didnt 
need to do any more than they had to resolve it.  He said that Halifax had blocked Mr and 
Mrs Gs account because someone had tried to make a large deposit to the gambling 
website.  And their terms and conditions allowed Halifax to block a payment if they had a 
suspicion it was unauthorised or fraudulent.  And the investigator also said he couldnt 
conclude that Mr G had lost £198 because roulette is a game of chance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Banks and other financial institutions have a responsibility to take steps to prevent their 
customers accounts from being used fraudulently.  For this reason, they may stop a 
transaction theyre suspicious about.  
Ive seen Halifaxs terms and conditions.  They include the following:
5.3 When can we stop you making payments?
We can stop or suspend your ability to make payments using any device or security details if 
we reasonably consider it necessary
The term goes onto explain that Halifax will tell a customer about this if they can  but thats 
not always possible.  
Im satisfied from this that Halifax were entitled to block transactions over £50 on Mr and Mrs 
Gs account because they thought the large attempted transfer was suspicious.  Its 
unfortunate that Mr and Mrs G didnt find out about this for several days.  But Halifax have 
apologised for this.  And I think the £150 Halifax was enough to compensate Mr and Mrs G 
for those few days inconvenience.  So I dont think they need to do anything more about 
that.
Ive seen that Halifax also offered Mr and Mrs G £50 for not replying to the letter Mr G sent 
to his branch manager.  I understand thats not been paid yet.  Mr G refused it when it was 
first offered.  But hes told our investigator that he now wants it to be paid.  And Halifax have 
confirmed theyre still willing to pay it.
So, if Halifax pay this, I dont think they need to do anything more to resolve that aspect of 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Finally, Ive thought very carefully about Mr and Mrs Gs complaint that Halifaxs actions 
have caused Mr G a financial loss of £198.  Mr G firmly believes that, if hed been able to 
place the bets hed intended to, the second bet wouldve recouped his losses and left him 
with a small profit.
Mr Gs explained he uses a system to decide what bets to place.  Which is why hes 
confident that the second bet he was planning to place wouldve won.  Ive considered what 
Mr Gs said.  And I asked if he could provide any evidence from his online gambling account 
to show his pattern of betting.
Unfortunately, Mr Gs not been able to send us anything, other than a printout of the deposits 
he made.  So Ive no evidence to show how he placed his bets.  And, without that, I cant say 
that his win was reduced because he couldnt add funds to increase the size of his stake.  
So  whilst I know he believes it to be the case - I cant say that Halifax have caused Mr G a 
financial loss.  And so I cant say that they should do anything more to resolve Mr and      
Mrs Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about Bank of 
Scotland PLC trading as Halifax.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman