DRN-1664728
 
The complaint
Miss M complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Miss M took out in June 
1995. It was sold in store. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Miss M aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding PPI. I can see that the application form included a separate section headed 
"Payment Protection" and that there were equally clear options to accept or decline the PPI. 
The "Yes" box has been ticked to indicate that Miss M wanted the PPI. And I think it would 
have been reasonable to expect Miss M to check over the document she was signing. The 
section about PPI was relatively brief, so I think Miss M would have still been able to do this 
even though the card and PPI were taken out in a store. So, overall, I think AXA made Miss 
M aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. Based on what Ive seen of Miss Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she could 
have benefitted from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information 
about these things would have affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable and she could have cancelled it at any time. Miss M told us she would have received less than three months pay if she couldn't work due 
to sickness or an accident. The PPI would have covered her until she returned to work and 
also covered her if she became unemployed. So it could have been a useful benefit. 
Overall, I dont think Miss M has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done 
wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman