DRN-3024192
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
handled and settled a claim they made under their home insurance policy.
Both parties have been represented at times. To keep things simple, references to either 
party includes things said and done by their respective representatives and agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr and Mrs P got in touch with RSA in May 2018, after they discovered water 
damage throughout the ground floor of their home.
RSA accepted the claim. The flooring was stripped out, the property dried, and a 
schedule of work was agreed upon in October 2018.
RSA paid for Mr and Mrs P and their children to go into alternative accommodation 
(AA) for 12 weeks whilst the repairs were carried out.
Repairs were complete in March 2019 and the family returned home.
Mr and Mrs P thought they should have been given AA throughout the claim. They 
said the ground floor had been uninhabitable and their cooker hadnt worked. They 
also said there had been unnecessary delays and poor service during the claim. 
They asked RSA to pay around £11,000 as a disturbance allowance (DA).
RSA didnt agree the house had been uninhabitable prior to repairs but it said it 
would have been inconvenient to live there and offered a total DA of £2,975. It also 
paid around £1,600 for costs Mr and Mrs P incurred whilst in AA. And it accepted it 
had caused avoidable delays during the claim, for which it offered a further £500.
Our investigator was satisfied that the offers RSA had made were reasonable to put 
things right and didnt recommend it do anything further.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and raised a number of queries about the way their claim 
had been handled. Their complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role in this complaint is to decide whether RSAs offer is reasonable  or whether theres 
more it should do to put things right. To do that, Ill focus on what I consider to be the key 
points of dispute that remain outstanding.
Whilst Ive read and thought about everything said by both parties, I wont comment on all of 
it. Ill only comment on the points I consider to be relevant to the outcome of the complaint. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Its clear Mr and Mrs P feel strongly that theyve been badly let down by RSA in a number of 
ways. But their complaint is primarily about three key areas:
The approach to AA
The amount of DA offered
Delays and poor service
Alternative accommodation
The policy says, in summary, that if the home is made uninhabitable, it will pay for additional 
expenses incurred until the home is made habitable again. That could include AA, as well as 
any costs associated with it and reasonably incurred.
RSA accepted the home was going to be uninhabitable whilst repairs were carried out. It 
paid for Mr and Mrs P and their family to be in AA during the period of repairs. It also paid for 
utility bills and extra travel costs. I understand these costs arent in dispute.
Mr and Mrs P consider their home was made uninhabitable by the water damage, so they 
think AA should have been offered at an earlier stage of the claim.
Its not in dispute that the water leak caused damage throughout the ground floor, primarily 
to the flooring and low-level furnishings, from the outset. RSA removed the flooring early in 
the claim. I dont think that was an unreasonable thing to do. It was damaged and would 
likely have need replacing  and the drying process was likely to have been much quicker 
without it. However, it left Mr and Mrs P and their young children in the home without the 
kind of flooring theyd usually expect  in some places the surface was concrete, whilst 
others have been described as mastic.
RSA accepted this would have made things inconvenient but didnt think it would have made 
the home uninhabitable. Ive looked at the photos provided and considered Mr and Mrs Ps 
description of what it was like to live in these circumstances. Having done so, Im inclined to 
agree with RSA on this point.
I think the change of flooring would have been an inconvenient and undesirable way to live. 
Particularly towards the end of the year, its likely the rooms would have been less well 
insulated and colder as a result. Mr and Mrs P have mentioned having to use their heating 
more than they would ordinarily. Whilst this is likely to have been uncomfortable and more 
expensive at times, Im not persuaded it made the home uninhabitable.
Mr and Mrs P have described the floor as unsafe to use, confining them to the upper floors 
of the house. But I havent seen any evidence to show that the conditions were dangerous or 
likely to cause problems, such as trip hazards. One contractor included in their report a 
section which said: alternative accommodation required  yes without elaboration or 
explanation. Balanced against the remaining evidence, this isnt enough to persuade me it 
was necessary.
Another factor was the cooker. I understand the water damage meant the main oven wasnt 
working following the water damage. Whilst the top part of the oven was, and it seems the 
hob was too, this limited the amount and type of food that could be cooked. As a family of 
five, Mr and Mrs P have explained this made preparing meals more difficult and at times more expensive. I dont doubt this was the case, but these factors indicate inconvenience 
rather than inhabitability.
In July, Mr and Mrs P confirmed the oven had been repaired and RSA paid the invoice for 
that work. Later in the year they said they were living without cooking facilities. RSA 
questioned why that was given the oven had been repaired and suggested a replacement 
may be needed if the repair hadnt lasted. At this point, communication was exclusively 
between representatives for both parties and covered a number of points, including the 
cooker. Ive looked through it carefully and I cant see that RSA received a clear answer 
about what had happened to the oven after the repair  or to agree a replacement. Im 
satisfied RSA handled this fairly. I think it was entitled to ask what had happened with the 
cooker and wait on a response before deciding what impact that had on the claim. A little 
later, the family went into AA. But when they returned, they said the cooker still wasnt 
working and a replacement was agreed, which RSA paid for.
Overall Im not persuaded the absence of the main oven made the home uninhabitable. And 
Im satisfied that RSA fairly offered AA in line with the policy terms.
Disturbance allowance
The policy doesnt cover a disturbance allowance. But its generally accepted good industry 
practice to pay a DA in certain situations. Typically this is where the insurer accepts the 
policyholder is entitled to AA under the policy, but the policyholder opts to remain in their 
home and incurs additional living costs, over and above the amount they would usually 
spend. Sometimes it might be paid where the insurer doesnt think AA is due, but it 
recognises some additional living costs are likely to have resulted from the damage. I think 
thats what RSA has done here.
RSA offered £2,975. It used a standard daily rate appropriate for the size of the family, £35 
per day, from the date of the claim until the date the cooker was repaired, which is almost 
three months (May 2018 to late July).
Mr and Mrs P have asked RSA to pay a DA from the date of the claim until the date the 
repairs completed, which is around 10 months (May 2018 to the following March). Using the 
same daily rate as RSA, that comes to around £11,000.
The purpose of a DA is to cover the policyholders financial loss caused by the additional 
living costs, rather than to compensate for inconvenience or disruption to normal living. If for 
example a policyholder would usually spend £200 a week on food, but without a kitchen they 
spend £300, the DA may be £100 per week to reflect that additional cost.
RSA has met Mr and Mrs Ps financial losses from AA separately by paying £1,600. If they 
have other financial losses from AA, theyre entitled to evidence those costs to RSA for it to 
consider. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect RSA to pay a DA whilst Mr and Mrs P 
were in AA and had access to the usual household facilities. Expenses such as food for the 
family are likely to be similar in AA as they were at home prior to the damage.
That leaves a period of around seven months to consider  from the start of the claim in May 
to the start of AA in December. I found above that the home wasnt uninhabitable. But there 
was likely to have been additional heating costs. And being unable to use the main oven 
may have had an impact on the cost of food. Some meals dont rely on an oven at all and 
others can be adapted or substituted to avoid the oven. But others will require more 
expensive alternatives, like takeaways or buying more fresh food.Theres been much debate about the cooker  when it was working, what happened when it 
stopped working, and the communication about it. The full circumstances havent been made 
clear. But Im satisfied it was repaired in July 2018. And in October 2018 it was reportedly 
not working  and that remained the case until it was replaced after Mr and Mrs P returned 
from AA. Why it wasnt working and what steps were taken to repair it again or replace it are 
unknown. In July RSA said it was prepared to replace the cooker if need be. But that offer 
doesnt seem to have been taken up.
In these circumstances Im not persuaded it would be fair to expect RSA to pay a DA for 
additional food costs after July. I say this because it seems likely a replacement would have 
avoided the need for any additional costs. And seemingly it would have lessened the 
inconvenience for Mr and Mrs P too.
For the time Mr and Mrs P were without a functioning oven, there was likely to be some 
additional cost. And as the weather got colder, there was likely to have been additional 
heating costs. RSA have offered £2,975 and Im satisfied that was reasonable and 
proportionate to the likely additional costs, bearing in mind the points made above.
Mr and Mrs P have shared with us copies of bank statements and loan agreements. Whilst 
this shows they were spending and borrowing money during the claim, Im not persuaded it 
shows that the additional living costs they faced during the relevant times exceeded the 
amount RSA offered.
Delays and service
Mr and Mrs P have raised a number of points about the way RSA and its agents dealt with 
the claim. I wont list them all, but some examples are:
Slow initial response  it took a long time for progress to be made with the claim after 
first reporting it. Mr and Mrs P had been told to expect a visit within 48 hours but that 
didnt happen.
Personnel handling the claim changed  but none of those involved carried out a 
visit, so the handlers didnt have first hand knowledge of the problem.
Schedule of work  the initial scope was created by a company based on a limited 
understanding of the damage and was priced at less than £5,000. After a further 
delay, it was agreed the scope of work was at least £20,000.
Numerous visits  whilst the handlers didnt visit, various contractors did. It wasnt 
always clear what the purpose of the visits were. And sometimes contractors arrived 
unprepared or prepared to carry out the wrong or inappropriate work.
RSA accepted there was a failing in the service it offered. It estimated an avoidable delay of 
around four months, and I think thats a fair assessment.
Ive looked at the timeline of events and I agree with Mr and Mrs P that the initial response 
should have been quicker, with more co-ordination between contractors to minimise the 
number of visits  and to make the visits more effective. Whilst a loss adjuster visit isnt 
necessary in every claim, when damage is as extensive as it was in this case, Id expect a 
visit to ensure a full understanding of the problem. 
Taking these extra steps to manage the claim would have reduced the length of time Mr and 
Mrs P spent in their damaged home  and reduced the amount of distress and frustration 
caused by multiple contractor visits that often achieved little.Similarly, the scheduling of repairs shouldnt have taken so long. Whilst a degree of 
negotiation on the finer details of the work is common, I dont think it was reasonable for 
RSAs first schedule to be so far away from what it later agreed was necessary to put things 
right. This only added to the delay and distress.
Taking everything into account, and the impact this had on Mr and Mrs P, Im satisfied £500 
compensation is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman