The complaint
Mrs W complains that she was mis-sold an agreement with Go Car Credit Limited ("GCC"). 
She says she was told she could refinance after two years but this didn't happen.
What happened
In December 2015 Mrs W was supplied with a car and entered into a hire-purchase 
agreement with GCC. The agreement was for 48 months with payments of £202.92 per 
month. The amount of credit was £4,865 with interest of £4,865.16, an interest rate of 
47.45%.
Mrs W says that at the time of entering into the agreement she expressed concern about the 
interest rate and the amount of credit. She says the dealership told her she'd be able to 
refinance the agreement after two years to obtain a  better rate of interest and a more 
affordable monthly payment. 
Two years later Mrs W contacted GCC to discuss refinancing the agreement on a lower 
interest rate. GCC advised Mrs W that it wasn't offering finance at that time and that the car 
was in negative equity.
Mrs W feels that she was mis-led into entering the agreement. She's explained that she's 
experienced financial difficulties which has led to the agreement falling into arrears. She 
says she would've been able to maintain payments if she'd been allowed to refinance.
Mrs W complained to GCC. In its final response, it said that finance was subject to status 
and meeting the underwriting criteria and was not guaranteed. Mrs W wasn't happy with the 
response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint and said that in order for there to have been a  
misrepresentation, the statement of fact must've been untrue at the time it was made. The 
investigator said that at the point of supply, it was likely that Mrs W would have been able to 
refinance but subsequently, other factors meant that this wasn't possible.
Mrs W didn't agree. She said it was obvious that the car would end up in negative equity 
because of the amount of interest being charged under the agreement. She said GCC would 
have known this at the time she entered into the agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1239278In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the supplying dealer made 
a misrepresentation at the point of supply. A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact 
which induces a consumer into entering a contract.
Mrs w has said that the dealership told her she could refinance after two years. I haven't 
been provided with anything from the business to rebut this and I have no reason to doubt 
what Mrs W has said. Although I can't be certain of exactly what was discussed between 
Mrs W and the dealership, I think its likely that she was told that she would be able to 
refinance the agreement.
I've thought about whether a statement of this kind could amount to a misrepresentation. 
The statement has to be untrue at the time. In other words, I would need to be satisfied that 
the dealership knew at the time it made the statement that Mrs W wouldn't be able to 
refinance in the future.
There are various ways to refinance. It might involve keeping the car and entering into a new 
agreement for the same amount with a different interest rate, or it might involve part 
exchanging the car.
GCC has said that it was unable to refinance when Mrs W requested this because it wasn't 
offering new finance. In addition, the car was in negative equity so Mrs W wasn't able to part 
exchange it.
I've taken Mrs W's concerns about negative equity into account. Even though the interest 
rate under the agreement is quite high, I don't think the business would have known at the 
point of supply that the car would end up being in negative equity. This is because there are 
other factors which can affect a cars value, such as (for instance) depreciation and the 
introduction of newer models by the manufacturer.
Taking everything into account, I'm not persuaded that there's been a misrepresentation 
here. I don't think the statement about refinancing was untrue at the time it was made. 
Refinancing became impossible due to external factors which happened after Mrs W entered 
into the agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman