DRN-1844589
The complaint
Miss F complains that Lex Autolease Ltd mishandled the termination of a lease for a car 
which was found to be of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2018, Miss F entered into a three-year hire agreement for a new car. The initial 
payment was £4,000 with monthly rentals of £430 falling due the month following the cars 
delivery.
Unfortunately, Miss F experienced a number of different faults with the car, the first of which 
arose only a short time after shed acquired it. The car required a number of repairs and 
software updating.
Miss F decided to complain to Lex Autolease in July 2019 and asked for an early termination 
of the agreement. Lex Autolease contacted the dealership and the repair history for the car 
was obtained. During this time further issues arose with the car and it was taken back to the 
garage for repairs. 
Lex Autolease says that, after consultation with the dealership, it was agreed that Miss F 
could terminate the lease early at no cost to herself. It wrote to her in September 2019, 
Informing her of its offer to end the agreement. Lex Autolease says that it didnt hear from 
Miss F and so assumed she had decided she wanted to retain the car. It closed her 
complaint.
However, it appears from Miss Fs chronology that she didnt receive this letter. She 
contacted Lex Autolease in October 2019 seeking an update to her complaint and was told 
her complaint had been closed. Lex Autolease re-opened the complaint as Miss F remained 
unhappy about the quality of the car. Lex Autolease says there was no further contact with 
Miss F until November, though Miss F says she emailed them to outline the outstanding 
issues with the car and chased for updates. 
In November 2019 Lex Autolease spoke with Miss F and said that it was agreeing to her 
request to terminate the agreement. It was arranged for the car to be collected by a third-
party company in December 2019. Miss F says she was advised by Lex Autolease not to 
drive the car from that point as the agreement had been terminated.
Miss F says that there was a delay in the car being collected though Lex Autolease says 
according to its notes the car was collected within the expected timeframe. 
In January 2020 Lex Autolease sent Miss F its final response letter to her complaint. In that 
response Lex Autolease said it accepted there had been faults with the car that hadnt been 
repaired successfully and so had agreed to the lease being terminated early. It also 
acknowledged that there had been delays in responding to some of her emails, that a 
monthly payment had been wrongly taken from her bank account (although it had been 
returned the same day) and that the partial refund of the initial payment had been wrongly 
calculated which was later rectified. It offered Miss F £275 as compensation for the 
inconvenience and distress caused and refunded the hire payment for November/December 
2019.
Miss F disagreed with Lex Autoleases offer and complained to this service. She said she 
thought it would be fair for her to be reimbursed the full amount of her initial payment made 
under the agreement.
Although our investigator agreed that Miss Fs complaint should be upheld, she didnt think 
Lex Autolease needed to do more. She thought the proposed settlement was reasonable 
and fair.
Miss F disagreed with our investigators view. She said she hadnt used the car from the 
date she had been told by Lex Autolease that she could reject it, and this had been at the 
suggestion of Lex Autolease. Miss F also said that she hadnt been able to use the car as 
she had wanted as it hadnt been fit for purpose since July 2019. She said she thought it 
would be fair for her to receive all her monthly payments back from July 2019.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that the car hired by Miss F under the agreement wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. The issue for me to decide is whether the settlement proposed by Lex Autolease is 
fair in all the circumstances.
Miss F had requested the full repayment of her initial payment made under the agreement. 
However, this payment isnt the same as a deposit. The initial payment pays the first months 
hire charge and then the remainder is spread across the life of the agreement to reduce all 
the monthly payments. So, I agree with Lex Autolease that the unused portion of the initial 
payment should be reimbursed to Miss F. Ive seen there was an error made by Lex 
Autolease when it first calculated the amount that should be reimbursed but this was later 
rectified. I also think Lex Autolease acted fairly by adding interest to this reimbursement at 
the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Miss F says that clearly the car was not fit for purpose from July 2019 and that she was 
unable to use the car as shed wished. However, looking at the mileages that were recorded 
in May 2019 when the car was repaired and also when the car was collected in December 
2019, Ive seen Miss F was able to drive the car for around an additional 6,000 miles. As this 
equates to what would be the average mileage fir a driver, I dont think I can reasonably say 
she wasnt able to use the car. And I think its fair Miss F pays for that use so I dont agree 
that Lex Autolease should reimburse the monthly rentals from July 2019. 
I appreciate Miss F has found dealing with the faulty car stressful, and Lex Autolease has 
acknowledged it didnt always answer her emails as promptly as it should have and made an 
error in calculating the amount to be reimbursed from the initial payment, so I agree 
compensation is fair here. 
Miss F has provided her own chronology of events which I have looked at closely. Its agreed 
that Miss F opened her complaint with Lex Autolease in July 2019. Ive seen that the 
dealership did not support the car being returned and so Lex Autolease undertook its own 
enquiries as to the existing and past faults with the car. Lex Autolease agreed the car could 
be returned and the agreement terminated at no cost to Miss F in September 2019. I dont think Lex Autolease took an unreasonable amount of time to reach that decision. However, I 
dont know why that decision letter, sent by Lex Autolease to Miss F in September 2019, 
didnt arrive, but I cant fairly say that was the fault of Lex Autolease. So, I dont think its 
decision at that time to close Miss Fs complaint was unreasonable. It re-opened the 
complaint as soon as it was informed that Miss F was experiencing further difficulties and 
wanted to return the car
The complaint was re-opened in October 2019 and it was agreed by the end of November 
2019 that the agreement would be terminated early. Arrangements were made for the car to 
be collected in December 2019. I appreciate Miss F didnt use the car from November 2019, 
but Ive seen that the monthly payment for November/December was reimbursed. So, Miss F 
didnt pay for the period she still had the car but wasnt using it.
Miss F says there was delay and complications over the car being collected. However, she 
hasnt provided any details. Lex Autolease says the car was collected as arranged. If Miss F 
wishes to pursue a complaint about the collection arrangements, then she will need to 
provide the details of what went wrong to Lex Autolease so that it can investigate that 
further.
So, while I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Miss F, Im not going to ask 
Lex Autolease to do more. I think the compensation offered is reasonable when taking into 
account the impact dealing with the faulty car had on Miss F, together with the level of 
service she received from Lex Autolease. Im partially upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Miss Fs complaint and Im asking Lex 
Autolease Ltd to pay Miss F £275 compensation if it has not already done so.
My final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Miss Fs complaint and Im asking Lex Autolease to 
pay Miss F £275 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of dealing with the faulty 
car and for its handling of the early termination of the agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 05 February 2021.    . 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman