DRN-2984111
The complaint
Miss H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) 
unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Around November 2020, Miss H filed an accidental damage claim for a bed and mattress. 
She later withdrew the bed from the claim but is unhappy that RSA decided not to pay out for 
the mattress because Miss H couldnt provide evidence of the damage.
Miss H complained to RSA. She says she disposed of the damaged mattress at the time 
because it was her only opportunity to do so and felt that the insurer hadnt dealt with the 
claim in a timely manner. RSA concluded it had declined the claim fairly. It referred to the 
policy terms that explain Miss H would need to provide any information or evidence that the 
insurer needs to decide the claim. RSA also said it had dealt with the claim reasonably.
Remaining unhappy, Miss H asked this service to review the matter. Miss H says she now 
suffers from a bad back because shes had to sleep on a pull-out bed since. Miss H wants 
RSA to pay the claim and waive her excess. 
Our investigator concluded that RSA had declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy 
terms. He also decided that the insurer had dealt with the claim in a timely manner. Miss H 
didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to carry out a final review of her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
The terms of Miss Hs policy set out that in the event of a claim:
RSA requires her to provide any assistance and evidence in relation to the cause and 
value of the claim
RSA may request additional information including photographs 
Damaged items should not be thrown away until RSA has had a chance to see them
I dont find these terms to be unusual. In fact, as our investigator points out, it is typical for 
insurers to require evidence to support a claim.
Ive seen a copy of Miss Hs original claim notification that she made online. I can see that 
Miss H explains that she doesnt have pictures of the damage and that shes disposed of the 
mattress. RSA declined the claim because it needed to see evidence to support the claim. 
Miss H couldnt provide this given the mattress was no longer in her possession. But the 
terms set out that additional evidence would be needed to support any claims. So I cant say 
that RSA did anything wrong given it has acted in line with its policy terms.
Miss H seems to suggest that RSA should pay the claim based on her testimony alone. But 
it wouldnt be fair for me to instruct RSA to do so. RSA needs to determine the validity of 
claims and ensure the event being claimed for is covered under the policy terms. In this 
instance, RSA needed to see evidence of the damage before making its decision. Given the 
insurer couldnt do so because Miss H had thrown the mattress away, I think its fairly 
declined the claim. 
Miss H recently indicated that the governments Covid-19 restrictions meant that she had a 
small window to dispose of the mattress. But in her original claim notification, she mentioned 
the availability of transport to move the mattress was the reason she threw the mattress 
away. I cant say for certain why Miss H felt she needed to dispose of the mattress 
immediately, but this isnt something I can place responsibility on RSA for. The insurers 
terms set out that damaged items shouldnt be thrown way. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for RSA to expect that Miss H would still have the mattress or at least have 
images of the damage. So I wont be instructing RSA to review its decision to decline the 
claim.
Miss H also complains that RSA didnt deal with her claim within a reasonable amount of 
time. Ive reviewed the correspondence between Miss H and the insurer, as well as RSAs 
internal notes  and I cant agree with Miss Hs assessment of RSAs claim handling. I can 
see that RSA responded to each of Miss Hs emails in a timely manner and the claim overall 
was decided within a month of Miss Hs original notification, which I dont think is 
unreasonable in these circumstances. So I wont be asking RSA to do anything differently.
In summary, I think RSA acted fairly when it declined Miss Hs claim as she couldnt provide 
evidence of the damaged mattress. And from what Ive seen, RSA dealt with the claim in a 
timely manner.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman