DRN-4267124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with Covea Insurance Plcs (Covea) handling of a subsidence
claim made under their home insurance policy. They are also unhappy with the quality of
repairs carried out to their flooring.
Where Ive referred to Covea below, this also includes any actions carried out by agents they
appointed to handle things on their behalf.
What happened
In November 2016 Mr and Mrs R reported a claim for subsidence damage to their property.
Covea arranged for an inspection and monitoring of the property to be carried out. Ultimately
repairs were finally completed in July 2022. However, Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with the
quality of the flooring repairs, and the overall handling of their claim, so they raised a
complaint.
Covea didnt issue their final response within the eight weeks they were allowed under the
Financial Conduct Authority complaint handling rules, so Mr and Mrs R asked this service to
consider their complaint.
After the complaint was allocated to one of our investigators, Covea then issued their final
response. In this they agreed there had been delays in the claim and offered £1,000
compensation. However, Covea only accepted a small element of the floor tiles required
rectification, rather than all of the flooring. They said their contractor could return and replace
them with spares, but Mr and Mrs R had rejected this.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with Coveas position so asked our investigator to continue
considering the complaint.
Our investigator reviewed things, but he didnt uphold the complaint or recommend Covea
do anything further. He said Coveas offer in relation to the flooring was reasonable, and
whilst he agreed there were delays in the claim, he thought Coveas compensation offer was
fair.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome on part of the complaint to our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings 
before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im issuing a provisional decision. Im minded to reach the same 
outcome as our investigator about the flooring, but I think further compensation is 
warranted for the claim handling part of the complaint. Therefore, Im issuing a 
provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings before I reach my final decision.
The flooring
The flooring was replaced as part of the repair works. The issues Mr and Mrs R have 
raised with this are:
The tiles have been laid on crack mat rather than cement boards
There are no levelling clips resulting in the tiles being lipped
The grout is white rather than brown
The floor is not level
Mr and Mrs R have provided a brief report from a tiler that outlines this. In contrast, 
Coveas contractor says cement boarding was not the correct way to install the tiles 
and Mr and Mrs R agreed to this at the time, level clips were in fact used, the tiles are 
one metre long and have a natural bow in them, so it is difficult to take a level 
reading, and Mr and Mrs R had agreed to the colour of the grout.
Covea has offered to either lift and relay the two tiles they accept arent quite level 
with the rest or provide the funds to do this if Mr and Mrs R provide costings. 
Whereas Mr and Mrs R say it is around 30 tiles which have an issue, along with the 
grout and underlay, and the whole flooring should be replaced.
Here the information is conflicting. Mr and Mrs R have also said photos wouldnt be 
able to show the issue they have with the flooring. So, in the absence of an 
independent report which shows one way or another, I need to decide on balance 
what is most likely.
As it stands, I havent seen any conclusive evidence to show Mr and Mrs R agreed to 
the type of underfloor, but equally I havent seen any evidence to show Covea 
agreed to what Mr and Mrs R asked for, and then reversed that decision. But either 
way, I havent seen anything which supports that using the method Covea has is the 
wrong method, wouldnt create a lasting and effective repair, or that this would have 
caused any detriment. So, Im not minded to direct Covea to replace the whole floor 
on this basis.
There is nothing to support any discussions surrounding the colour of the grout or 
what was agreed. And I dont think it would be proportionate even if I did have firm 
evidence to direct Covea to uplift the entire floor to replace the grouting alone. If 
there was firm conclusive evidence, I may have recommended compensation for the 
colour difference instead, but like I say, there is no evidence to support this.
Both parties disagree on whether there are level clips or not. But in the absence of 
evidence there arent any, I dont think it would be proportionate to direct Covea to 
uplift the floor to establish this, especially in the absence of any detriment being 
caused if there arent actually any.
Covea has said that the tiles naturally bow due to the type and design. I havent seen 
any firm evidence which shows this is incorrect or shows its how they were laid which is causing this, and Coveas explanation seems reasonable. So, in the 
absence of this, Im not minded to direct Covea to uplift and relay all the tiles, as if 
the tiles do bow as Covea say, then its likely the tiles would be the same even after 
relaying them.
Mr and Mrs R also argue that to replace just two tiles could result in damage to the 
rest of the flooring. I accept that could happen. But that isnt known for certain, and 
equally it may not. And just because there is a possibility it could, that isnt enough to 
persuade me that Covea needs to replace the entire flooring on the basis of a 
potential issue.
However, if that was to occur whilst Covea was carrying out works then theyd need 
to put this right. Or if this was cash settled, which is one of the offers from Covea, 
and was unavoidably damaged when Mr and Mrs Rs tiler was carrying out works, 
then theyd need to demonstrate this to Covea for further consideration.
With the above in mind, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my
provisional decision, Im minded to conclude Coveas offers  either to relay the two 
tiles or cash settle this if Mr and Mrs R submit costs  are both fair and reasonable.
The claim handling
Covea offered Mr and Mrs R £1,000 compensation for their handling of the claim. 
Our investigator said there were around a year of delays, made up of smaller delays, 
and he thought the compensation already offered by Covea was reasonable. Im not 
minded to agree, Ill explain why.
Ill also outline here that I dont intend on commenting on every event, communication 
or issue that occurred throughout the claim. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to 
either party, instead this reflects the informal nature of this service and my role within 
it. And as the claim duration was around six years, a lot has happened during this 
time. Instead, Ill focus on the key points in reaching my outcome, but Id like to 
assure both parties that Ive considered all the information theyve provided when 
reaching my provisional decision.
Subsidence claims do by their nature take some time, so length of time isnt always 
an indicator of poor claim handling by an insurer. They often taken time due to 
monitoring being required, finding the cause of the subsidence and often complex 
repairs being required to carry out a lasting and effective repair. This can take some 
time from a claim being made to repairs being finalised.
Having said that though, this claim was made in November 2016 and repairs werent
concluded until July 2022. And this is a particularly long period, even in this type of 
claim. There were things that caused the claim to be delayed which were outside Coveas 
control, for example:
Extended monitoring being required due to continued movement
Tree preservation order being put in place
Third parties not agreeing to trees being removed
Bats in trees preventing removal
Covid and access being limited
This is just an example of some of the things which contributed towards the delays 
which were outside of Coveas control. But in contrast there were also a number of 
things which both caused delays and resulted in a poor overall experience for Mr and 
Mrs R, which Covea were responsible for. For example:
Delays in Covea either arranging next steps, or chasing next steps, on 
multiple times over the years
Root barrier being proposed but never explored or implemented, despite third 
parties not agreeing to tree removal and tree preservation orders
Change of contractors due to a lack of progress
Delays in responses from the surveyor internally, on multiple occasions
Delay in requesting removal of the tree preservation order
Drain surveys missed in 2017 so needing to be completed in 2019
Changing proposed stabilisation methods and delays in drawing up schedules 
of works
Delay in the start date of repair works
Exploring whether not actually subsidence, five years into the claim
As there were multiple things that should have gone very differently, it is impossible 
to say how long exactly the claim should have taken if it wasnt for the issues that 
arose. But from what Ive seen, I think its likely it should have taken around half this 
time as an approximation. One key component of this is that its clear there would be 
issues removing third party trees, early on alternative repair methods were briefly 
mentioned to be explored, but nothing ever came of that despite the claim already 
having taken some considerable time. And due to the time taken, further monitoring 
needed to be completed. Ultimately when it eventually got to the repairs being 
completed, this was relatively timely compared to the overall claim duration, it just 
took far too long in my view to get to that point.
But along with the delays and issues Ive outlined above, its clear from the 
information I have been provided that Mr and Mrs R werent kept updated. So, from 
their point of view, understandably, they were under the impression little to no 
progress was being made, even if things were happening in the background. There 
were also delays with the works being completed meaning Mr and Mrs R had to 
remain away from home much longer than expected, and this had an impact on the 
alternative accommodation and them needing to move.
Ultimately Mr and Mrs R chose to return home before repairs were finished despite 
only having a microwave and kettle as cooking facilities, due to how long theyd been 
out of their home and the impact on their pets. Had things have been handled 
differently, they should have been able to return home with repairs completed much 
sooner.Having taken everything into account, I dont think £1,000 is sufficient compensation 
in the circumstances. Unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Im minded to direct Covea to increase the compensation to a 
total of £2,000.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Covea to increase the total 
compensation from £1,000 to £2,000.
The responses to my provisional decision
Covea responded and they agreed with my provisional decision and increased 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs R also responded. They said they were unsure if their tilers report had been 
considered when reaching the provisional decision, but they said theyve now decided to 
overlay the tiles with a wooden floor anyway. So, they said they accepted the provisional 
decision and increased compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
To reassure Mr and Mrs R, I did take into account their tilers report when reaching my 
provisional decision, and I explained where this differed to Coveas position on the tiles. And 
Im satisfied with the outcome I reached on this point, so my final decision remains the same 
as my provisional decision in relation to the tiles. But in any event, Mr and Mrs R have said 
they are now overlaying the tiled floor with a wooden floor anyway and that overall, they 
accept my provisional decision.
As both parties accepted the increased compensation I was minded to direct Covea to pay, 
and neither party provided any further comments in relation to this, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision on this point. Therefore, my final decision remains the same, 
and for the same reasons.
.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Covea Insurance Plc to:
Pay Mr and Mrs R a total of £2,000 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman