DRN-3780344
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc allowed a fraudulent account to be opened in her 
name, leading to significant stress and inconvenience for her.
What happened
Mrs B held several accounts with Santander. On 31 May 2022 she logged onto her online 
banking and noticed that a new account had appeared. Mrs B had not opened this account 
herself ,so she tried to contact Santander to let it know. She was unable to get through that 
evening, but was able to make contact on the morning of 1 June 2022. Santander agreed 
that the account was fraudulent and arranged to close it and to delete it from Mrs Bs 
records. Mrs B was unhappy that this account had been opened without the need for photo 
ID or any verification of the new contact details  an email and a phone number  that had 
been added to her profile.
Later that day Mrs B tried to log into her online banking but found that her access was 
blocked. When she was able to speak to Santander again the next morning she discovered it 
had been blocked because of the fraud, Santander advised that she would be sent a letter 
explaining how to re-register for online banking. When this information arrived over a week 
later Mrs B tried to re-register but was unable to do so, on calling Santander she was told 
this was because the new phone number added to her profile by the fraudsters had not been 
removed. This was corrected and Mrs B was then able to regain access to her online 
banking, around 11 days after the fraud.
Mrs B also discovered that Santander had recorded a fraud marker on CIFAS, she was 
unhappy that shed not been told this would happen as shed gone to the trouble of paying 
for a marker herself  costing £25  and says she would not have done this if shed known 
Santander would add a marker itself.
Overall Mrs B was very unhappy with how Santander had handled things, so she raised a 
complaint. Santander agreed that it should have warned her about her online banking being 
suspended, and that it should have immediately removed the fraudulent contact details from 
her profile. So it offered her £150 to recognise the impact of this. It didnt though agree that it 
had done anything wrong in opening the account as it had felt it had adequate information to 
open the account without the need for identification documents.
Unfortunately, when Santander wrote to Mrs B to confirm its response to her complaint it 
seems there was a significant typo in the letter, which stated that it was offering Mrs B 
£1150, rather than £150. In any case, Mrs B was unhappy with Santanders response, so 
she referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, but overall did not think Santander 
had been wrong to open the account, and felt that the £150 offered was fair compensation 
for any errors that occurred in Santander handling this issue.
Mrs B disagreed, so her case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
Its clear Mrs B has very strong feelings about this complaint and I want to assure her Ive 
read and considered everything she has submitted. However, I trust that Mrs B will not take 
the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision 
is to set out my overall conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
When the fraudulent account was opened, the fraudster had various details about Mrs B 
which were entered into the application. This included her name, date of birth, and address 
details. Santander considered this to be adequate information to open the account. Mrs B 
has said that Santander should have asked for additional identification documents to ensure 
the applicant was her.
General industry guidance and best practice is that financial institutions should take steps to 
identify customers when opening a new account. Santander has its own processes for doing 
so, and these are set out in its customer identification (ID) requirements. These state that for 
existing customers  which Mrs B was as she already held several accounts with Santander 
 identification documents are not always required. I appreciate that Mrs B feels Santander 
should have taken extra steps to identify the person opening the account, particularly as a 
different email and phone number were used. But I dont consider that Santander was 
required to do so given that she was an existing customer. It appears to have acted in line 
with the ID requirements it has set out.
Mrs B feels that if Santander had picked up earlier that the phone number recorded on the 
application had been previously used for fraud then the impact on her would have been 
lessened. But Ive not seen anything to show that this was identified until Santander 
reviewed the application details following the reporting of the fraud, so it seems that manual 
intervention was required to identify this issue, which wouldnt appear to be part of a normal 
account application. 
I also understand that, when the application was processed and correspondence sent to the 
email address recorded, it was returned as undeliverable. Mrs B feels that should have 
flagged to Santander that something was wrong, but I dont agree this was enough to 
suggest the application was fraudulent. I acknowledge Mrs Bs comment that when the email 
was returned then Santander could have contacted her on the correct email address, which 
it still had on file, but I dont think it was required to do this. Santander instead wrote to the 
address on Mrs Bs profile to notify that the email was not accurate, this seems reasonable 
in the circumstances as it would have previously verified the address with Mrs B so could be 
sure that anything sent to that address would reach the intended recipient.
Turning to the CIFAS warning that Santander recorded for Mrs B, I understand that Mrs B is 
unhappy she did not know this was going to happen and so paid for a protective marker to 
be added herself. But I also cant see that Santander was aware she would be doing so, and 
it wrote to her the day that it was made aware of the fraud to say the CIFAS marker would be 
added. I dont think I can fairly say that Santander did anything wrong here, it was not to 
know that Mrs B would choose to pay for the protective marker.Mrs B has been through a very difficult time, theres no doubt that the fraud perpetrated on 
her has been very distressing and time-consuming to sort out. These fraudsters clearly knew 
a lot of information about Mrs B and were able to use that information to their advantage. But 
from what Ive seen I dont think it would be fair to hold Santander responsible for all that has 
happened as a result of the fraud. I consider that Santander was reasonable to open the 
account with the information it had, and that it then largely did all it could to help limit the 
impact of that fraud once it was told what had happened. 
I want to be clear though that I agree there were some mistakes made here, specifically that 
Santander did not warn Mrs B that her online banking would be blocked, and that it didnt 
remove the fraudulent phone number from her account quickly enough leading to additional 
issues with re-registering her online banking. But overall Im satisfied that the compensation 
Santander offered and has now paid - £150  is reasonable to recognise the impact of those 
mistakes. I appreciate that, in writing, Santander set out a much higher level of 
compensation, but Im satisfied that was a genuine error and that the correct amount of £150 
was originally set out to Mrs B on the phone  where she rejected it. 
Matters of compensation are always a subjective issue, and often an emotive one. What one 
person may consider as fair compensation may not be viewed similarly by another person. 
However, I consider that the £150 paid by Santander is in line with what I would award in the 
circumstances of this complaint, so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman