DRN-4116200
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited unfairly rejected 
an escape of water claim under their home insurance policy.
Both Mr and Mrs M are named policyholders on their AA policy, so any claim or complaint is 
brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr M, Ill refer mainly to Mr M from here onward.
What happened
Mr M had home insurance with AA. He also had separate home emergency (HE) insurance 
with another insurer.
In March 2022, he noticed a leak in his bathroom. He made a claim on his HE insurance. His 
HE insurer appointed an engineer to investigate the leak. The engineer tried to fix the 
problem twice before identifying the likely true source of the leak  a pipe behind the 
bathroom wall. At that stage, the engineer advised Mr M to contact his home insurance 
provider. Mr M contacted AA on 23 June 2022.
AA appointed a surveyor to examine the leak. It said its surveyors photos showed mould 
and quite extensive damage, which indicates that the leak has been going on for a period of 
time. It concluded the damage resulted from gradually operating causes, told Mr M this 
meant the damage wasnt covered by his policy, and declined the claim. 
Mr M was unhappy with this and complained to this service. He told us he paid just under 
£2,500 (including VAT) for repairs and wants AA to refund this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He agreed that 
Mr M didnt tell AA about the leak for three months, so was satisfied that it could rely on the 
policy exclusion to decline the claim. Mr M disagreed with our investigator, so the case was 
passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 April 2023. I said:
Like most polices, Mr Ms cover only makes AA liable for damage caused by certain insured 
events listed in his policy booklet. The policy booklet also sets out some general exclusions 
to cover. AA declined Mr Ms claim based on one of these general exclusions, set out on 
page 8 of his policy booklet: Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes 
including deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes. It said Mr M first 
noticed the leak in March 2022 but didnt report it to AA until June, so the damage had been 
caused by a gradual leak over three months. 
However, that exclusion is typically applied where a policyholder has ignored a long-standing 
problem or tried to fix the problem themselves. Thats not the case here. 
Mr M discovered the leak on or around 10 March. I havent seen any evidence the leak 
started before this. Indeed, AAs surveyors report notes that the leak is consistent with Mr 
Ms claim and AAs correspondence with Mr M appears to accept the leak started in March 
2022. For the avoidance of doubt, I accept Mr Ms evidence that the statement in the 
surveyors report that he didnt think too much of a mark on the ceiling is incorrect. The 
evidence shows he contacted his HE insurer as soon as he noticed it.
Mr M told us he thought going through his HE insurer was the correct approach. I agree that 
fixing a water leak would be seen as an emergency so I can understand why he contacted 
his HE insurer rather than AA. I also think its reasonable that Mr M continued to rely on his 
HE insurer while its engineer tried to find the true source of the leak. While it took this 
engineer several attempts and over two months to find the source of the leak, this wasnt Mr 
Ms fault. 
AAs internal notes suggest Mr M should have appointed another engineer to attend when 
the original engineer cancelled appointments on 30 March and 11 April. I dont agree. At the 
time, Mr M was relying on his HE insurer to arrange repairs, so this was largely out of his 
control. In my opinion, AAs argument that Mr M should have arranged for another engineer 
to visit his home isnt reasonable.
Ive also thought about what would have happened if Mr M had contacted AA in March 2022. 
I accept its possible AAs engineer might have identified the source of the leak earlier and 
limited the damage. But I think its equally possible that AAs engineer would have followed 
the same process as the other insurers engineer. That is: replace the seal, then the shower 
trap, before finally identifying the true source of the leak in a pipe behind the bathroom wall. 
In my opinion, theres no guarantee that Mr M notifying AA any earlier would have limited the 
damage.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr M took all reasonable steps to fix the leak through his HE cover 
before he contacted AA. I dont think it was fair or reasonable for AA to rely on the policy 
exclusion to decline his claim. I think it should settle the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms. Mr M has already paid for repairs so I think AA should refund the cost of this, 
plus interest, less the policy excess.
Finally, I think AAs decision to decline the claim caused Mr and Mrs M unnecessary 
inconvenience. They had to arrange for the bathroom to be repaired at their own expense 
which meant they had a damaged bathroom until repairs were completed in September 
2022. I think AA should compensate Mr and Mrs M for this. Ive considered the amount this 
service has awarded in similar circumstances and think it should pay them £200 to reflect 
the inconvenience they suffered.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add I see no 
reason to change my findings. I find that AAs decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ms claim was 
unreasonable for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Settle Mr and Mrs Ms claim in line with the remaining policy terms by refunding the 
cost of repairs, less the policy excess.
Add interest to this amount at 8% simple per year from the date Mr M paid his 
engineer to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs M £200 to reflect the inconvenience its decision to decline the claim 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman