DRN-4060034
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited delayed paying a claim 
he made on his income protection insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr S made a claim on his income protection policy. Legal and General 
started assessing the claim. He was regularly in contact with Legal and General about the 
progress of the claim and was unhappy with how long it was taking for payments to start. 
Legal and General issued a final response letter, in January 2023. At that time a final 
decision about the outcome of the claim hadnt been made. However, Legal and General 
reviewed the service Mr S had received and offered £450 compensation to him. They 
acknowledged there had been delays and poor service. 
Mr S made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service that he wasnt yet receiving 
payments from Legal and General. He explained that he was told that no payment would be 
made during the deferred period and that he was unable to pay his rent. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He thought the compensation Legal and 
General had offered was fair taking into account the delays. But he thought it was fair for 
Legal and General to have asked for more medical evidence when they had. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said Legal and General were looking for reasons not to pay the claim. 
He said the policy hadnt offered him any peace of mind, the delays had caused him to get 
into debt and had an impact on his health. Mr Ss further comments didnt change the 
investigators thoughts on the outcome of the complaint. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When this complaint was referred to our service Legal and General had not made a decision 
to decline the claim. So, as our investigator explained, my decision will focus on what 
happened between when the claim was submitted in October 2022 and when Legal and 
General issued their final response letter in January 2023. 
Im aware Mr S has made a further complaint about Legal and Generals later decision to 
decline the claim, and other issues which took place after the final response letter was 
issued. I cannot consider those issues in this decision. My decision will focus on the  key 
points which I think are relevant to the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate this may be frustrating and upsetting given the wider circumstances of this 
complaint. But thats because, under the rules governing how the Financial Ombudsman 
Service operates, Legal and General is entitled to look into what happened before our 
service can review the further complaint Mr S wants to make. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General have a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. Im not directing Legal and General to pay any further 
compensation to Mr S. I say that because: 
The policy terms and conditions make it clear that there is a deferred period of 4 
weeks. Thats very common for policies of this type and, whilst I appreciate the 
difficulties Mr S was experiencing, there is no payment due during this period of 
time. 
Legal and General are entitled to ask for medical information when assessing the 
claim. So, it wasnt unreasonable for them to ask for medical information from the 
GP when Mr S claimed. But, they contacted the wrong GP practice in October 2022 
which caused a delay. They didnt ask for the records from the right GP practice until 
around a month after the initial request for medical information was made.
Legal and General had to go back to the GP to clarify some medical evidence. 
Theyve explained they needed more information about a referral to a specialist in 
2017. I dont think it was unreasonable to ask for more information. Based on the 
evidence I have the information they wanted was relevant to Mr Ss claim. 
Unfortunately, Legal and General repeated their error in December 2022 when they 
needed more information from the GP as they asked for information from the wrong 
GP. 
The combined impact of these errors caused a significant delay of several weeks. 
But I think the £450 compensation offered fairly recognises the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr S. I dont think it would be fair to direct Legal and 
General to pay a proportion of the claim to Mr S during the time he was waiting for 
the claim to be assessed, such as half the benefit available under the policy. I think 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is enough to put things 
right here.   
Ive taken into account what Mr S told us about the impact on his ability to pay his 
rent, his mental health, his physical health and the impact on his finances during the 
Christmas period. I understand that this was a very distressing time for Mr S and I 
have a lot of empathy with his circumstances. But, overall, I think Legal and General 
have done enough to put things right. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman