DRN-4251715
The complaint
Ms Z has complained that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) trading as Agria Frskring 
hasnt met in full a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Z took out a policy with Agria for her cat. Amongst other things the policy covered her for 
advertising and reward costs up to the policy limits if her cat were lost or stolen.
Ms Z made a claim under the policy after her cat was lost for £548.45 in respect of 
advertising costs and £1,500 in respect of a reward. The advertising costs related to the 
purchase of a printer, ink and paper to print posters for her lost pet. The printer cost £459.99.
Agria paid £250 in respect of the reward, being the maximum payable under the policy for 
this. It said the purchase of a printer didnt fall under the definition of advertising costs. It 
later agreed to pay £88.46 for the ink cartridge and paper.
Ms Z didnt think that was fair. She said there was no exclusion in the policy for the purchase 
of a printer. She said as the policy didnt cover using an independent company to produce 
flyers and advertise for a lost pet, she wouldnt have been able to produce any flyers if she 
hadnt bought a printer. 
She brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. He thought Agria had assessed the claims fairly based on the evidence 
available and the policy terms.
As Ms Z didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Agria has refused to reimburse Ms Z for the cost of a printer on the basis that it was not an 
advertising cost. I need to decide whether that decision was fair and reasonable.
Ms Zs policy covers advertising and reward. It says:
We will pay
If your pet is lost or stolen during the period of insurance we will pay up to the maximum 
benefit for this policy section for you to advertise to recover your pet and up to £250 for 
the cots of a reward if your pet is recovered.
The £250 cost of a reward is included in the maximum benefit of this policy section.
We will not pay

2. Any amount if you employ a company or organisation to search for your pet, report your 
pet missing, provide a contact point or produce their branded advertising material for you. 
According to the schedule the maximum benefit for this section of the policy was £1,000.
Although Ms Z paid considerably more, it doesnt appear to be in dispute that the maximum 
payable under the policy in respect of a reward was £250.
With regard to advertising costs, in my opinion the documentation is clear and not 
misleading. Ms Z says that there isnt an exclusion for the purchase of a printer and so it 
should be covered as an advertising cost. Im afraid I dont agree. So long as the policy 
clearly sets out what it will cover (in this case, advertising costs), it doesnt need to set out 
everything that wouldnt be covered under that heading. In any event it would be 
impracticable to list everything that wouldnt be covered.
Im aware that Ms Z couldnt claim for using a company to produce branded advertising 
material but I dont think that would have prevented a claim if shed produced a flyer herself 
and paid for it to be printed.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms Z but I think Agria has treated her fairly and in line with the policy 
terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman