DRN-3859932
The complaint
Miss B complained that the charges imposed at the end of her car finance agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) were too high. 
What happened
Miss B acquired a car using a Personal Contract Plan (PCP) with MBFS. The agreement 
started in September 2017 and ran for 48 months. At the end of the term, Miss B could either 
return the car or make a lump sum payment to purchase it. Miss B chose to return the car, 
and it was collected from her in May 2021. 
Miss B said that, shortly before collection, she took the car to a Mercedes dealership to 
check what was required before she handed it back. She told us that she was informed by 
the dealership that she needed to have the car serviced, and that various repairs were 
carried out including new brake pads. 
Following collection of the car, MBFS asked Miss B to pay end-of-contract charges totalling 
£819.22, broken down as follows: 
Left hand front wheel  rim damaged  £110.00
Right hand rear wheel  rim damaged - £110.00
Right hand rear tyre  gouge  £149.22
Front bumper  scratched - £210.00
Rear bumper  scratched - £210.00
Replacement of missing V5C document - £30.00
Miss B was unhappy about these charges (and also about the items not being identified by 
the dealership), so she complained to MBFS. After reviewing the charges, MBFS decided 
that the photographic evidence didnt support the charge for the rear bumper, so it reduced 
the amount due by £210.00 to £609.22. Miss B was still unhappy, so brought her complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Miss B 
disagreed and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
MBFS sent in copies of the finance agreement, photographs of the damaged areas of the 
car, the inspection report, and its invoice for the charges. It also sent in a copy of its vehicle 
return standards (VRS) document and charging matrix. Miss B sent in copies of emails 
from the dealership, her own photographs of the car and her account of the sequence of 
events. Ive carefully considered all of the information and evidence provided by both parties.
Ive also taken into account the guidance issued by the industry trade body - the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) - about charges made when a vehicle is 
returned at the end of the hire period. A vehicle will naturally incur a degree of wear and tear 
over the course of a few years, and the BVRLAs guidance sets out what can be considered 
fair wear and tear when returning a vehicle, and what damage can reasonably be charged 
for. Whilst MBFS are not members of the BVRLA, I consider the guidance to be an example 
of good industry practice so have taken it into account in reaching my decision. 
Miss B said she was unhappy about being advised by the dealership to have the car 
serviced and repairs carried out, which cost over £1,100.00 and which she was later told 
wasnt necessary. She also said that the dealership didnt identify the damage that she was 
later charged for.
Miss B sent in some copies of emails between herself and the dealership, but they are not 
conclusive in determining exactly what happened. I also dont have copies of invoices or job 
sheets for the work carried out. However, having looked at the information I do have, Ive 
concluded that I cant fairly hold MBFS responsible for what the dealership may have 
advised Miss B to do. I do note though, that the VRS document states that A full service 
history is required from a Mercedes Benz Retailer. If this is not provided you will be charged 
in accordance with our vehicle return standards. 
When the car was returned, it was inspected when it was collected by a representative of 
MBFS on 25 May 2021, and again three days later, after which MBFS issued the invoice for 
the charges. 
Miss B believed the damage was caused in transit back to MBFS  as I noted above, she 
said it wasnt picked up when the car was serviced at the dealership. Ive looked at the 
photographs that Miss B sent in, and although they dont all correspond to the areas of 
damage noted by MBFS, Miss Bs image of the right-hand rear wheel does show some 
scuffing to the rim, which is one of the items MBFS charged for. I also note that mileage at 
collection was 40,202 and at delivery back to MBFS it was 40,233  a difference of only 31 
miles. Ive also kept in mind that a routine service wouldnt normally pick up on cosmetic 
damage. Taking all this into account I think its more likely than not that the damage occurred 
before the car was collected by MBFSs representative. 
Turning to the areas of damage and the charges, Ive looked at the images provided by 
MBFS, alongside the VRS document and the BVRLA guidance. I note the VRS information 
was included as part of the hire agreement, and MBFS said it sent out a further copy six 
months before the end of the agreement and it maintains the information online. So I think 
Miss B would reasonably have been able to check the information over to see what repairs 
might be necessary to prepare the car for return. And the VRS information states that if the 
standards are not met on return of the vehicle, the hirer has to pay for the repairs. 
In relation to the wheels, the images provided by MBFS show scuffing to the rims, with a 
damage area of around 150mm on the left-hand front wheel and 90mm on the right-hand 
rear wheel. The damage areas are larger than the acceptable limits in both the VRS and the 
BVRLA guidance, so I think MBFS was fair to charge for these. There is a further charge for a gouge in the right-hand rear tyre. The MBFS inspection image 
shows the gouge, with a piece missing from the sidewall. Again, charging for this is in line 
with the VRS and also the BVRLA guidance, so I think MBFS was fair to do so. 
The final area of damage was the front bumper. The MBFS image shows a large scuff with 
an area of around 90mm in width and 50mm in height. This item also exceeds the limits set 
out in the VRS and the BVRLA guidelines, so again I think its fair that MBFS charged for it. 
Having concluded that it was fair for MBFS to charge for the items of damage, I went on to 
check that the charges were in line with its stated matrix of charges, and Im satisfied that 
they were. 
The final charge was for a replacement V5C document, which MBFS said wasnt returned 
with the vehicle. Miss B said MBFSs representative refused it, and that she contacted MBFS 
to discuss this, after which she sent it by post. We asked MBFS about this, but it said that it 
had never received the V5C document, so had had to get it replaced. It said that it had 
checked with its representative and that the document wouldnt have been refused. 
Both the BVRLA guidance and the VRS information state that all documentation  including 
the V5C - must be intact and available upon the collection of the car. 
I cant know exactly what happened at the handover of the car, but as MBFS said it didnt 
receive the V5C document, I dont think it is unreasonable for it to have charged for a 
replacement. 
Overall, based on the evidence and information provided, Im satisfied the charges of 
£609.22, applied by MBFS when Miss B returned the car at the end of the PCP, were fair 
and reasonable. So, although I do understand that Miss B feels strongly about this, Ive 
decided not to uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman