DRN-3916515
The complaint
C, a limited company, is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE turned down a claim it made on 
its Combined Liability Insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2021 there was a break in at Cs premises. It made a claim on its policy for losses 
relating to that. Great Lakes turned down the claim. It thought C hadnt traded since 
December 2020; initially because of Covid-19 and then because of renovations. And so its 
premises were unoccupied at the time of the break in. It said it hadnt been notified of the 
unoccupancy and didnt believe Cs brokers had either. If it had known about this cover 
would have been reduced and theft would have been excluded. It turned down the claim C 
made. 
Our investigator didnt agree the claim had been correctly turned down. He didnt think the 
issue here was what C told its broker but whether the premises were unoccupied at the time 
of the loss. And the policy defined unoccupancy as when the Premises are closed for 
Business for a period in excess of 14 consecutive days.
In this case C operated a caf. And while its dine in service was closed because of 
refurbishment it had continued to provide food for a local club every Friday (and sometimes 
on a Saturday or Sunday). From August 2021 it also operated a takeaway service on Friday 
evenings. Our investigator didnt think the definition of unoccupancy in the policy was met 
and said Great Lakes should reconsider the claim against the remaining terms and 
conditions. 
C agreed with what hed said. Great Lakes acknowledged receipt of his view but didnt 
provide a response. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions of Cs policy set out general obligations which include a 
requirement that it must notify Great Lakes of specified alterations in risk. That includes:
You must immediately notify Us if:
i) the Business is being wound up or carried on by a liquidator or receiver or 
permanently discontinued, or
ii) our interest ceases except by will or operation of law; or
iii) there is a change of trade or use of the Premises; or
iv) the Buildings becoming Unoccupied,
otherwise the Policy will be treated as cancelled and all cover will terminate unless You have 
notified Us of any such alteration(s) described in i)  iv) above and at Our option We have 
agreed to vary the Policy.
Unoccupied is defined as When the Premises are closed for Business for a period in excess 
of 14 consecutive days. 
Great Lakes hasnt suggested the definition of premises or business set out in the policy 
werent met in this case. Its turned down the claim because the buildings were unoccupied 
and it hadnt been notified of that. However, the definition of Unoccupied in the policy 
makes clear that premises need to be closed for business for a period in excess of 14 
consecutive days. 
In Cs case it doesnt appear that applies at any point from soon after Covid-19 restrictions 
were lifted. Its told us it was fulfilling a contract to provide food from the premises to a local 
club on an ongoing and at least weekly basis. And from August 2021 it was also open for 
takeaway service on a Friday evening. I appreciate a dine in service wasnt available while 
refurbishments were taking place but, based on what C has said, it appears clear the 
premises werent closed when the break in took place. And Great Lakes hasnt provided 
anything to dispute what its said. 
Given that I agree it hasnt correctly declined this claim. And so it will need to reconsider it in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of Cs policy. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to reconsider the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of Cs policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman