DRN-2122411
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt refunded him £2,400 he 
lost to a safe account scam.
The bank has declined to refund Mr M as it says he didnt verify who he was speaking with 
when called on the phone.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Ms complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I 
dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr M sent £2,400 via online banking to an account controlled by a fraudster on 
8 September 2019.
He did so on the premise he was protecting his money by sending it to a safe 
account. 
Hed received a call which appeared to come from the bank (though he didnt check 
the number at the time). It was in fact a fraudster who convinced Mr M the call was 
genuine by providing his name, date of birth, address, and account details. Mr M 
says the caller also knew his account balance.
The fraudster told Mr M someone was trying to use his account and had been setting 
up payments.
Mr M was panicked into action, not only because of the seemingly genuine call but 
also because hed experienced a form of account compromise a few months earlier.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme Halifax has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Halifax declined to refund Mr M and said he hadnt done enough to verify the identity of the 
person calling him.
It contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money. But no funds remained in the 
recipient account. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Halifaxs decision. One of 
our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld.
 
Our investigator found Mr M had met his requisite level of care under the CRM and had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was acting to protect his money. She noted:
the fraudster knew a lot of details and personal information about Mr M;
hed been the victim of fraud before making him uneasy and potentially vulnerable to 
falling victim again;
the fraudster read Mr M a declaration about sharing details with and potential contact 
from the police, lending reassurance; and
the context of the scam, the panic created by the fraudster, and the need to act 
quickly all needed to be considered in determining how reasonable Mr Ms actions 
were in the circumstances.
The investigator said Halifax ought to have fully reimbursed Mr M at the time he made his 
claim and so should refund his loss in order to settle the complaint, together with interest on 
the refund at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined his claim to the date of 
settlement.
 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 14 May 2020 with a deadline for 
responding of 11 June 2020. That deadline has passed and, about three and a half months 
later, the bank has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. 
 
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested;
 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Halifax to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of Halifaxs failure to reply to the investigators opinion.
 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr M ought to have been fully reimbursed when he 
notified Halifax of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his requisite 
level of care. I believe he did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has 
already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr M to have received a full 
refund at the time.The only point Ill add to what the investigator has said is in relation to Mr M checking the 
number he was called on. The bank has said he ought to have checked it. But had he done 
so at the time  as he did later  he would have found it to appear as the banks genuine 
contact number. And so his failure to check in the moment had no material effect on the 
outcome of the scam.
Although most of Mr Ms distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts 
of the fraudsters, I think Halifax could have done more to protect him from the impact of this 
given its obligations under the CRM and its statutory duty to co-operate with our complaints 
process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook). I therefore consider 
£300 compensation for distress or inconvenience to be appropriate. Im aware that 
compensation hasnt previously been awarded. But given where we are in the complaint 
journey, and the fact compensation for distress and inconvenience is a matter of discretion, I 
believe it should fairly be paid in this case without first reverting back to Halifax for comment.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr M ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Halifax to pay 
Mr M:
the money he lost  i.e. £2,400  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Halifax declined Mr Ms claim under the CRM to the date of 
settlement; and
£300 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will thereafter 
accrue at the same rate until payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc and direct it to pay the redress Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman