DRN-3838419
The complaint
Mr R complained because Santander UK plc refused to refund him for payments which he 
said he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 23 April 2022, Mr R contacted Santander and reported that he hadnt authorised multiple 
transactions from his account. There were around 40 transactions, all to the same payee, for 
amounts ranging from £10 to £300. Theyd taken place between 22 December 2021 and 25 
March 2022. Santander stopped Mr Rs card and issued him with a replacement card.
On 16 May, Mr R contacted Santander again. He reported another six transactions, to a 
different payee, for between £100 and £200. Theyd taken place between 30 April and 16 
May, using the replacement card details.
Santander stopped Mr Rs card and investigated both sets of transactions. The total amount 
disputed by Mr R was £4,145.03.
Santander turned down Mr Rs claims, and Mr R complained, saying he definitely hadnt 
authorised the transactions. But Santander told Mr R that the IP addresses (a unique 
computer identifier) matched what M R had previously used for undisputed transactions. And 
the device used to authorise the disputed transactions on the app had been registered as Mr 
Rs. Santander also said that the activity didnt match with normal fraudulent activity, 
because it would expect a fraudster to try to empty the account. 
Santander sent Mr R its final response letter on 23 May. This said that the transactions had 
been performed at an IP address frequently used by Mr R, and had been authenticated in 
the mobile app, using Mr Rs registered secure device and his security passcode. So the 
evidence indicated they could only have been authorised by Mr R.
Mr R wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He told our investigator that he didnt check 
his account statements regularly, and first noticed the payments when trying to make a 
payment which didnt go through because the balance on his account was too low. He told 
the investigator that both companies to which money had been set were companies for 
sending money abroad, but he didnt know anyone abroad to send money to. He said he 
hadnt lost his cards, and never let anyone else use his card. Mr R also explained that he 
used mobile banking mainly to pay bills. He had a password on his phone, and a password 
for Santander mobile banking. Mr R said a relative had helped him set up mobile banking, so 
she knew the password, but shed told him she didnt make any of the payments. He said 
hed always been careful to keep his banking details safe, and hadnt shared them through 
calls or emails asking for his details.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said that whoever carried out the 
payments must have had access to Mr Rs card details. But theyd also have needed access 
to his mobile banking app, and Mr R had said he hadnt shared his details. The investigator 
didnt think it would have made any difference if Santander had blocked Mr Rs mobile 
banking when it had cancelled his card in April, because having mobile banking wasnt 
enough to make the payments  whoever made them knew Mr Rs new card. So the 
investigator said she couldnt see how any unauthorised third party could have made the 
transactions.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he hadnt authorised any of the transactions, nor had he 
authorised any one-time passwords for accessing his account. The investigator clarified that 
the on-time passcode had been sent as an alternative to using the app for the 30 April 
transaction. But in fact that particular payment had been confirmed using the app, rather 
than through using a one-time passcode on the website.  So the code wouldnt have allowed 
anyone to access Mr Rs online or mobile banking.
Mr R asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place between December 2021 and May 2022 are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Santander) 
must show the transactions were authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, 
Santander has sent the technical evidence showing that the transactions were 
authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether its more likely than not that Mr R authorised the 
transactions.
Ive seen the technical evidence which shows that the IP addresses used to make the 
transactions were ones which had been used for previous transactions which Mr R hadnt 
disputed. The disputed transactions had all been made using the device (phone) which had 
been registered to Mr Rs account since early September 2021, and on which undisputed 
transactions were made both before and after the disputed ones. The transactions had been 
authorised using the app, and the passcode to access the app.
Mr R has been very clear, to Santander and to our investigator, that he hadnt shared his 
card, phone or security details, nor had he engaged with any scam calls, texts, or 
downloaded any suspect software. He hadnt lost his phone. In view of the IP evidence in 
particular, which showed that the disputed transactions took place in locations which Mr R 
had used for undisputed transactions, its very hard to see how anyone other than Mr R 
could have carried out these transactions. It might have been someone who he allowed to 
use his phone, who knew his security details, and who carried out the transactions at Mr Rs 
genuine IP address locations. But allowing someone else to carry out the transactions and 
providing the necessary device and details would count as Mr R authorising the transactions 
himself.
Id also comment that the transactions werent typical of a third party fraudster. If someone 
unknown to Mr R had stolen his card and phone, theyre much more likely to have emptied the account very quickly, rather than take sometimes quite small amounts over the course of 
some seven months. 
Ive also borne in mind that Santander stopped Mr Rs card on 23 April, and issued a 
replacement with a different number. But the disputed payments re-started on 30 April, just a 
week after Mr R reported a dispute on the previous card, and probably only a few days after 
the replacement card would have arrived by post. So whoever carried out the transactions 
would have had to have known the previous card had been stopped, and would have had to 
have had access to the replacement card within a very short time of its arrival.
Mr Rs statements also show that he was using the account very frequently for genuine 
transactions, in between the disputed ones. There are very many undisputed transactions 
between the disputed ones. I recognise that Mr R told our investigator that he didnt check 
his statements very often. But as Mr R was using the account so much for genuine 
transactions, I find it surprising that he didnt report the disputed transactions until more than 
six months after they started. And when the replacement card was issued, it would have 
been natural for a customer to have been wary, and kept an eye on their account. But the 
first of the second batch of disputed transactions took place on 30 April, and again Mr R was 
using the account for genuine transactions. But he didnt report the April and May disputed 
transactions until 16 May. I find it surprising that Mr R didnt realise and report these sooner 
than he did.  
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr R authorised 
the disputed transactions himself. Its possible that he allowed someone else to carry them 
out in locations he himself frequently used, allowing them access to his card and mobile and 
relevant passcodes  but that would count as Mr R authorising them himself. So I dont 
uphold Mr Rs complaint, and I dont require Santander to refund him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman