DRN-3876431
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined a claim 
on his motor insurance policy for the theft of his vehicle.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr Ds daughter took his keys and went to his vehicle to get her bag  but, 
having retrieved it, accidentally left the vehicle unlocked with the keys inside it. As a result, 
Mr Ds vehicle was unfortunately stolen.
Mr D put in a claim with his motor insurer, but LV declined the claim. It said the claim wasnt 
covered due to the specific exclusions in the policy for any loss resulting from the keys being 
left in the vehicle and the vehicle being unlocked. Mr D raised a complaint, saying he was 
unaware his daughter had taken the keys  and it wasnt fair he was being held responsible 
for someone elses actions. LV maintained its position, so he referred the complaint to our 
service for review.
An investigator here thought LV had fairly declined the claim. He thought LV was able to rely 
on the exclusions it had cited, so didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. Mr B didnt 
accept the investigators view, and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on the 
matter. So the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr D, but I hope my explanation below at least helps him understand how 
I reached this decision. 
I appreciate the argument Mr D is trying make  that his policy summary says loss or 
damage wont be covered if you (implying the policyholder) leave the keys in the vicinity of 
the vehicle or leave it unlocked. So, his thinking is the claim should be covered as someone 
else left the car unlocked and with the keys. But the policy terms themselves say LV wont 
pay for loss or damage by theft if your car has been left unlocked or if the ignition device is 
left in on or attached to your car  theres no mention of who has to leave it unlocked or with 
the keys, just that a claim wont be covered if those things are the case. Its the policy terms, 
rather than the summary, which form the basis of his insurance contract with LV. So I dont 
think the circumstances here are covered. 
Though I acknowledge the difference Mr D has highlighted, Im not persuaded things would 
be different had the summary wording been more closely aligned to the terms. Mr B wasnt 
aware his keys had been taken, so knowledge of the policy wording wouldnt have affected 
whether his car was stolen. These are also common terms in motor policies, so Im not 
persuaded he could have easily found insurance elsewhere that covered this scenario.
But Mr Ds policy has another exclusion which I find applies  his policy doesnt cover loss or 
damage where your car is driven or used without your permission by a family member or 
persons living in your household unless you report them to the police. Reporting such theft 
to the police shows tacit consent wasnt given by the policyholder for any keys to be taken or 
the vehicle to be used. In this case the loss occurred as a result of the car being used by a 
family member without Mr Ds permission  and Im not aware Mr D has reported his 
daughter to the police for stealing his keys (though I know he reported the vehicles theft). So 
the claim also isnt covered due to that exclusion. 
The term relating to use by a family member is a common one in motor policies  as insurers 
generally arent willing to cover the increased risk associated with those that live with 
policyholders having easier access to the insured vehicle and its keys. Its a common 
exclusion, so we wouldnt expect it to be specifically highlighted at the point of sale. Ive not 
seen anything else that leads me to think it wouldnt be fair to rely on it in this case.
So, while I appreciate the difficult situation Mr D finds himself in, having been the victim of 
theft  I consider LV has acted fairly by declining the claim. Thats because his motor policy 
doesnt cover theft resulting from these circumstances
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman