DRN-2953686
The complaint
Mr P says Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr P took out two loans from Likely Loans as summarised below.
He says the lender failed to ask for enough information, so its checks were insufficient. Had
it done so, he says it would have seen that he might not be able to sustainably repay the
loans.
The investigator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said the lenders checks were
proportionate and there was nothing in the information it gathered to suggest Mr P was
struggling financially at the time.
Mr P disagreed, saying more through checks into his financial situation would have showed
that whilst the loans may have seemed affordable on a pounds and pence basis the
sustainability was questionable.
As agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
reached a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision (an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision). I asked both parties to submit any 
comments before I issued a final decision.
Extract from my final decision
I can see Likely Loans asked for some information from Mr P before it approved the loans.
For loan 1 it asked for details of his annual income (£62,000) and the purpose of the loan
(home improvements). It checked his income using an income verification tool. It also
checked Mr Ps credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit
history. For loan 2 it asked for details of his annual income (£74,000) and the purpose of the
loan (home improvements). It checked his income using an income verification tool and
estimated his living costs using national statistics. It also checked Mr Ps credit file to
understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history.
From these checks combined Likely Loans concluded Mr P had enough monthly disposable
income to afford to repay the loans.
I dont think the checks were proportionate. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
Although the loan mightve looked affordable based on the figures Mr P gave and the
information Likely Loans had gathered about his credit history and commitments, I think that
Likely Loans shouldve carried out more thorough checks into Mr Ps financial situation. It
was agreeing to lend such a substantial sum over three years. I cant see it asked about his
living costs at all. So I dont think it couldve known if the loan was sustainably affordable, or
not.
Mr P has provided bank statements for the months prior to his loan application so Ive looked
through these to see what the lender would most likely have found out had it done better
checks. I am not saying the lender had to request bank statements, but they are one way for
me to get a reasonable picture of Mr Ps finances at the time.
From them I can see that had Likely Loans looked in more depth at Mr Ps finances it would
most likely have seen that he was having serious problems managing his money. Mr P was
living in his overdraft, using payday loans frequently and spending significantly in excess of
his declared income on gambling.
So Im satisfied that proportionate checks would most likely have shown that Mr P would not
have been able to make the repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or
suffering significant adverse consequences. It follows I think Likely Loans was wrong to
approve loan 1.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was for less money and over a shorter term. But given that Ive concluded that
proportionate checks for loan 1 would have led Likely Loans, as a responsible lender, to
decline loan 1 its logical to conclude that anything less than complete checks of Mr Ps
actual income and expenditure for loan 2 cannot be considered proportionate. As had it done
the right thing at the time of loan 1 it would have been aware of Mr Ps financial history.
I accept his circumstances may have changed  he told the lender his salary had increased
to £74,000 and the credit check Likely Loans completed showed his overall indebtedness
had reduced slightly. So it could have been Mr Ps finances had stabilised in the six months
since loan 1  he had after all been able to repay that loan early. However, I cant see that
Likely Loans carried out the checks needed to know this. It did make an assumption about
his living costs this time using national statistics, but for the reason set out above I think it
needed to verify his actual disposable income.
So again I have looked at Mr Ps bank statements to get an idea of what Likely Loans would
have found if it carried out proportionate checks. They show Mr P was still living in his
overdraft, using payday loans frequently and gambling heavily.
This means Im satisfied that proportionate checks would most likely have shown that Mr P
would not have been able to make the repayments to this loan without borrowing further
and/or suffering significant adverse consequences. It follows I think Likely Loans was wrong
to approve loan 2.
I have then considered whether Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in
some other way. As part of his complaint he said that it was unfair Likely Loans were so
inflexible in terms of the interest rebate on loan 1 when he settled one day after the cooling
off period. But whilst Mr P may have been frustrated by this, I cant see that the lender
breached the terms of the agreement. It follows I dont find that the lender acted
inappropriately towards Mr P in any other way.
I then set out what Likely Loans would need to do to put things right if I upheld the complaint.Both parties responded to my provisional decision, accepting the conclusion I set out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the
key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website. And Ive followed
it here.
As neither party sent in any new evidence or comments it follows I have no reason to depart 
from the findings or outcome set out in my provisional decision. So I am upholding Mr Ps 
complaint.
Putting things right
 Its reasonable for Mr P to repay the capital amounts that he borrowed as he had the benefit 
of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and Likely Loans will need to put things right.
It should:
A) refund any interest and charges Mr P paid on loan 1
B) remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 2, and treat any
repayments made by Mr P as though they had been repayments of the principal on
the outstanding loan
C) if this results in Mr P having made overpayments then these should be paid back to
Mr P with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement
D) if there is still an outstanding balance owing then the amounts calculated in A
should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Mr P. However if there is
still an outstanding balance then Likely Loans should try to agree an affordable
repayment plan with Mr P
E) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to the loans
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to take off tax from this interest. Likely Loans must
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ps complaint and Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
must put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman