DRN-2275585
The complaint
Mr Es unhappy with the actions of Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd (APS) in relation to a 
debt they held for him.
What happened
I issued my provision decision on this complaint on 2 October 2020. In it I said:
On 6 February 2018 Mr E obtained a Debt Relief Order (DRO). His outstanding debt with 
APS was included within this order. The effect of the order was twofold: first, that it created a 
moratorium under which all creditors suspend efforts to obtain repayment; second, that after 
it was completed a year later Mr E was discharged from his liability to pay the outstanding 
balances and they became an unrecoverable debt. In the letter Mr E received from the 
Insolvency Service confirming this, they said APS had been told about this.
Despite this, APS kept chasing him for the debt, and recorded adverse payment information 
on his credit file. Because of this, Mr E complained to APS  and when they didnt reply he 
contacted us and asked us to look into things.
APS said they hadnt had a chance to look into things, and then responded to the complaint 
in October 2019. They said on 2 October 2017 Mr E had written to them, enclosing an 
income and expenditure form, but didnt say anything about a DRO at the time. The account 
was frozen at this time  but then in December 2018 as theyd heard nothing, they took the 
freeze off the account to allow payments to be made. In August 2019 they were given Mr Es 
DRO number but couldnt verify it due to the time that had passed. They didnt uphold his 
complaint and asked for a copy of the DRO to be sent to them as they hadnt received it.
Mr E was still unhappy, so we looked into his complaint. One of our investigators asked for 
further information on multiple occasions but received nothing. So, on the information we 
had which mainly came from Mr E, the case was upheld. Our investigator said APS should 
write off the debt, stop chasing it, stop any other party chasing it, amend Mr Es credit file 
and pay £300 compensation.
APS then took several months to confirm they accepted this outcome, and then further time 
to pay the compensation of £300. But APS have never confirmed theyve carried out any of 
the other actions. Mr E has confirmed he accepts the outcome our investigator came to  
and more recently has said only the credit file amendments need to be done. Mr E also 
wants an apology. Because APS seemingly didnt complete all of the actions they agreed to, 
the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
APS replied and confirmed they accepted the outcome reached by our investigator. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest the complaint being upheld would be unfair on APS, so given that, 
Im going to focus on what I think they need to do to put things right for Mr E.
Our investigator said APS should write off the debt, ensure the debt isnt chased anymore, 
amend Mr Es credit file and pay £300 compensation.
But I think slightly different actions would be appropriate. I say this because its not for me to 
order APS to write off the debt. This debt was part of the DRO meaning Mr Es liability to 
repay it was extinguished when he was discharged in February 2019. So, itd be more 
appropriate to say APS need to update their records to show Mr E ceased to owe the debt 
following his discharge under the DRO in February 2019.
This also applies to any information APS has reported on Mr Es credit file. APS will need to 
update it to show the same information  that he was no longer liable to make payments 
towards the following his entry into the DRO in February 2018, and that he ceased to be 
liable for it at the end of the DRO 12 months later.
As Mr E is no longer liable to repay the debt, APS will also need to ensure, if they havent 
already, that theyll no longer chase the debt themselves  and ensure that any other parties 
they have engaged to chase the debt are asked to stop as well.
In relation to the compensation amount its clear Mr E has been caused distress by APS 
actions. APS paid the £300 recommended by our investigator, but Im not sure this goes far 
enough.
Mr E has shown evidence APS were contacted about the DRO when it happened in 
February 2018, and I note this information was included in our investigators view  which 
APS told us they accepted.
This means Mr E has been waiting for a long time for APS to sort out something which 
should have been done at the time. Mr E contacted APS on a number of occasions, has 
been repeatedly chased by debt collectors and says hes been bullied and put through 
hell.
Overall, I think a total of £400 compensation is fair for these issues due to the significant 
distress hes been caused. This includes the £300 APS has already paid to Mr E.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr E replied and said my provisional decision was fair as long as:
APS remove the incorrect credit file information as soon as possible
Say sorry for the many errors they made on purpose
Ensure they and others stop contact after saying sorry, and removing the credit file 
information, by letter
Stop sending him emails
Pay the additional £100 without delay
APS didnt reply by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E said he thought my provisional outcome was fair but added some additional actions he 
thinks APS need to take. I didnt include APS saying sorry in my provisional decision, as I felt 
the compensation was sufficient for this. I havent ordered this, but its clear Mr E would 
appreciate it if APS said this when contacting him about the actions theyve taken.
In relation to the time itll take for the credit file information to update its often around 4-6 
weeks once the financial business has put the request through. This is the standard 
timescales, and that isnt in APS control.
As for sending him emails I can only assume this is in relation to the debt. Because Im 
ordering APS to update their internal systems to show Mr E is no longer liable to repay the 
debt  then they shouldnt be contacting him about that anymore.
So, although Mr E would like APS to do more than my provisional decision set out I dont 
think thats necessary. And as APS didnt reply by the deadline Ive seen no reason to 
change the outcome I reached.  
Putting things right
In line with the above Im currently planning to order APS to:
1 Update their internal systems to show Mr E as being no longer liable to repay the 
debt following the DRO completing in February 2019
2 Update the information theyve reported to the credit reference agencies so that it is 
consistent with the details in point 1 above
3 Ensure, if they havent already, that they and any other parties cease contacting Mr E 
in respect of the debt
4 Pay Mr E total compensation of £400
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint and order Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd to carry out the 
actions Ive set out above in the putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman