DRN-3341656
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car he took on finance from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) was misrepresented to him. Specifically, he says that he was not told that 
the Infotainment Pack that came with the car was a subscription service; after three years, 
he would have to pay extra for it.   
What happened
In October 2017 Mr P entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a 
used car. The dealerships paperwork recorded that the car was an ex-demonstrator and 
that Mr P had taken some dealer options (a 3-year wheel option, a tow-bar and paint 
protections). No factory options were selected. 
Mr P says that the dealer showed him the cars features, including its Infotainment Pack, 
which including the cars navigation system, lane assist and phone connectivity. 
Mr P later found out that the Infotainment System was in fact a subscription service. Whilst a 
three-year subscription was included in the price, after that he would have to pay an 
additional sum (over and above the hire purchase payments) to keep that service. He said 
that this had not been explained to him by the dealership and that, if it had been, he would 
not have agreed to the terms of the hire purchase agreement. The subscription was 
extended for a year, but Mr P said he believed it was indefinite. 
Neither the dealership nor VWFS accepted Mr Ps claim, and he referred the matter to this 
service. Our investigator did not believe that Mr P had a valid claim either, and so he asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has explained that his complaint is about what he sees as the dealerships failure to 
explain the subscription service to him. But the complaint he has brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is about VWFS, as the financial service provider. It is however to be 
treated as agent for the dealership, meaning that it is responsible for statements made or not 
made by the dealership. And, as the finance provider and owner of the car, it is responsible 
to Mr P if the car and its features do not comply with the hire purchase agreement. 
With that in mind, I have considered first of all whether it was a term of the contract that an 
ongoing subscription to the Infotainment System would be included.
The hire purchase agreement described the car by reference to the make and model, 
mileage, registration date, registration number and chassis number. It did not include any 
reference to other features. That is what I would expect. 
The dealerships paperwork included more information about the car  colour and trim. But it 
did not say anything about the Infotainment System being a subscription service or that only 
a limited subscription was included in the price.
The contractual paperwork was, therefore, silent on the issue of the subscription. I do not 
therefore believe that I can fairly say that an extended subscription was included in the price. 
The manufacturer generally includes a three-year subscription with new cars (although it 
may be less, depending on the model). I do not believe therefore that there was an 
agreement to include an indefinite subscription. 
Mr Ps main argument however is that the dealership did not explain the subscription model 
to him. By failing to do so, it misrepresented the true position. 
I accept that the dealership demonstrated the features of the Infotainment System. I accept 
too that there was no discussion of the subscription model. That is, Mr P did not ask about it 
(and indeed had no reason to do so), but neither did the salesman offer any explanation. He 
did not, for example, say that an open-ended subscription was included. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact or law which is made by one party to a 
contract and which induces the other into that contract. As I have indicated, I do not believe 
that any statements were made about the subscription service in this case. Mr P says 
however that the salesman should have told him about it and that, by not doing so, he 
misrepresented the position.
Generally, however, a misrepresentation cannot be made by silence. There is no overriding 
duty, for example, on a salesperson to explain all the details of a product to a prospective 
buyer. There are exceptions of course. Some types of contract require full disclosure. And in 
this case, I do not believe it would have been fair for the salesman to keep quiet about the 
subscription if, for example, he had known it was an important issue for Mr P. And, if there 
had been any indication that Mr P was acting under a misunderstanding, I would have 
expected the salesman to correct that misunderstanding. 
As I have said though, there was simply no discussion of the subscription model in this case 
and no suggestion at the time that Mr P would not have proceeded if he had known the true 
position. In the circumstances, I do not believe I can fairly say that the salesman was under 
any duty to raise it. I am not persuaded therefore that there was a misrepresentation by 
silence.      
I note that the investigator took the view that, even if Mr P had known about the subscription 
service, he would have proceeded with the hire purchase agreement in any event. However, 
because I do not believe there was any duty on the dealership to explain the subscription, I 
do not need to address that question.     
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman