DRN-1695568
The complaint
Mr P is complaining that Lloyds Bank plc didnt credit him with the correct number of Avios 
reward points following a transaction on his Lloyds Duo Avios American Express card.
What happened
Mr P had a Lloyds Duo Avios account. This came with two credit cards  an American 
Express card and a Mastercard. He earned Avios points for his spending on both cards, 
earning more for his American Express spending than for his Mastercard spending. 
In February 2019, Lloyds wrote to Mr P telling him they were changing the account. They 
said the changes meant he would get a new credit card and the number of points he 
collected would change. The letter said the changeover would happen in just over two 
months. 
Mr P says he expected he would continue to collect points as before until his new card 
arrived. He says his new card arrived around the second week of May, after 8 May 2019. On 
8 May 2019 he spent £7.50 on his American Express card and he expected to get 7 Avios 
points for this transaction, based on the old points system. But he only earned 2 points on 
the £7.50 spend, so he complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds says the account changeover happened on 24 April 2019. They said the February 
letter to Mr P was clear that the new points system would be in place as soon as the account 
changeover happened, even if Mr P continued to use his old cards. Lloyds also said they 
wrote to Mr P on 24 April to tell him the account changeover had taken place. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. His view was that the February letter clearly 
told Mr P that the new points system would be in place as soon as the account changeover 
happened, even if he used his old cards. So, our investigator thought Lloyds had acted fairly 
when it awarded Mr Ps points for his 8 May transaction under the new points system.
Mr P doesnt think the account changeover happened on 24 April and questions how he was 
supposed to know this date even if it did. He has looked at his 8 May credit card statement 
and told us he thinks the points he earned on that statement prove that the account 
changeover didnt happen on 24 April. Lloyds looked at the same statement and provided a 
calculation which was different to Mr Ps  Lloyds says this shows that the new points 
system was in operation for all of Mr Ps transactions after 24 April.
Mr P wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint, so it has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I dont think theres any debate about whether Lloyds should have changed Mr Ps account  
instead the question is about the timing of the change and how Lloyds communicated it to 
Mr P. 
I can see that the February letter clearly set out the following points (among other things):
The account would be changing in just over two months from the date of the letter
Mr P would receive a new Mastercard, replacing his existing two credit cards
Mr P could continue to use his old cards until the new one arrived
The number of Avios points earned for each transaction was changing
The new points system would apply once Lloyds made the account changeover, 
even if Mr P were to use his old cards
 
So, I think Lloyds communication at this stage was clear and Mr P ought to have known 
about the changes which would affect his account.
Lloyds have provided their system notes associated with Mr Ps credit card. I can see from 
these that the account changeover did happen on 24 April 2019 but I cant see whether or 
not Lloyds actually told Mr P of this date. 
I can understand why Mr P didnt think the account changeover had happened until he 
received his new card. He says he received it soon after the transaction on 8 May 2019. So, 
I can understand why Mr P might have expected to receive 7 points from his £7.50 spend on 
that date.
Mr P and Lloyds sent us different breakdowns of the Avios points awarded to Mr P for the 
transactions shown on the May statement. Mr P says his breakdown shows that the account 
changeover didnt happen on 24 April 2019. I havent got enough information to determine 
exactly how the points were calculated. But Ive reviewed both calculations and Mr Ps 
calculation isnt mathematically correct whereas Lloyds calculation is. So I dont think Mr Ps 
calculation supports his assertion that the account changeover didnt happen on 24 April.
On balance, I think Lloyds did change Mr Ps account over on 24 April 2019. I think they 
awarded Mr P the right number of points for his £7.50 transaction so I dont think they need 
to award him any extra points. I appreciate its possible that Mr P didnt know the 
changeover was happening on 24 April. But although Mr P didnt get as many points as he 
expected on his 8 May transaction I think the impact on him is very small and so I dont think 
Lloyds need to compensate Mr P.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman