DRN-4374383
The complaint
Mr R complains One Call Insurance Services Limited didnt cancel his motor insurance 
policy when he asked it to and so, unfairly charged him for renewing his policy. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known between the parties, so Ive summarised 
events.
Mr R took out a motor insurance policy via his insurance broker, One Call, in April 
2021.
Mr R says he called One Call in March 2022 to cancel the policy as hed arranged 
cover with another insurance provider. However, the One Call policy subsequently 
renewed automatically. 
In April 2022, Mr R made a claim on the policy for a damaged windscreen. Mr R says 
his wife  who telephoned One Call to make the claim  didnt realise she was 
speaking to One Call and had assumed shed telephoned the new insurer. The claim 
for the windscreen was subsequently covered.
In April 2023, Mr R complained to One Call saying his policy hadnt been cancelled in 
March 2022 like hed requested, and so, he wanted the premium hed paid to be 
refunded. 
One Call said it had written to Mr R in March 2022 advising the policy was due to 
automatically renew. It said it didnt have a record of him contacting it at that time to 
cancel the policy. And so, it was satisfied it hadnt treated Mr R unfairly. 
Unhappy, Mr R brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
didnt uphold it. Because Mr R disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for 
an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues to be decided is whether One Call didnt act upon an instruction Mr R 
says he gave to cancel his policy, and should therefore, refund him the cost of his 
premium. To determine this, I must consider the available evidence. 
Mr R has provided a screen shot which shows he called One Call twice in March 
2022. So, whilst One Call has said it doesnt have a record of Mr R calling it at this 
time, Im persuaded, based on the evidence, that he did. 
It is plausible Mr R was calling about cancelling his policy as Ive seen evidence that 
he took out a motor insurance policy with another provider on the same day these 
calls were made. However, I cant be certain as to what was discussed during these 
calls.
But even if I was persuaded Mr R had called to cancel his policy, I cant ignore the 
fact he subsequently made a claim on the policy in April 2022 when his windscreen 
was damaged. And therefore, benefitted from the policy. 
I understand Mr R has said his wife called One Call thinking it was the new insurance 
provider, but Im not persuaded that during the life of the claim, it wouldnt have come 
to Mr Rs attention that he or Mrs R werent dealing with the new insurer or its agent. 
I say this because its not unreasonable to assume Mr R would have received 
correspondence about the claim and this would have shown it was being dealt with 
by the insurer of the One Call policy. 
But what remains key is that because Mr R made a successful claim on the policy, it 
wouldnt be reasonable to ask One Call to refund the premium. 
As Mr R appears to have been dual insured at the time the claim was made, he may 
wish to contact the other insurance provider to seek recovery for the premiums he 
paid it. But thats a decision Ill leave with him to make. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman