DRN-3309076
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way Ageas insurance Limited carried out repairs following 
a claim made under their home insurance policy for damage caused by an escape of water. 
Any reference to Ageas also includes its agents. 
What happened
In late 2016 Mr and Mrs Cs home suffered water damage. Ageas accepted a claim and 
carried out works to reinstate the property. This included taking out a kitchen island and 
reinstalling it. 
Some time later, Mr and Mrs C had an unrelated problem with their dishwasher. When an 
engineer attended, he said a repair was difficult. He said one of the legs of the dishwasher 
had been broken, so it was difficult to remove from the kitchen island. He also found that the 
dishwasher had been attached to the kitchen island with a bracket to secure it, and this had 
caused a crack to the base of the island. 
Mr and Mrs C complained to Ageas, they said the damage must have happened when the 
kitchen was reinstalled by it as part of the claim. They said the kitchen island was made of 
corian and couldnt be repaired. They wanted Ageas to pay for a new kitchen island, or said 
theyd accept a contribution of around £4,000; half of what it would cost for a replacement. 
At the end of 2019, Ageas said it wouldnt agree to make an offer. It didnt accept it had 
caused the damage Mr and Mrs C described. It said the kitchen island wasnt in a great state 
prior to the reinstatement of the kitchen and the insurance contract isnt a maintenance 
contract. It said Mr and Mrs C would need to fund their own repairs. 
Unhappy with Ageas response, Mr and Mrs C brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought it was most likely, on balance, that Ageas had caused the damage 
to the kitchen island. But she thought it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Ageas to replace the 
entire kitchen island as a result of a small crack. She noted the age of the kitchen island and 
its pre-claim condition and thought a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Ageas to pay 
a contribution of £200 for causing the small area of damage. 
Ageas accepted to pay the compensation but still didnt agree it was liable for the damage. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the outcome. They said theyd accept £2,000 to resolve matters.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, its come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas doesnt accept that its responsible for the repair carried out to the dishwasher and 
the resultant crack in the kitchen island. Mr and Mrs C say it can only have happened when 
Ageas was reinstating the kitchen. Where there is a dispute such as this, my role is to decide 
what I consider, on balance, is most likely to have happened. 
Mr and Mrs C say the dishwasher was installed in 2016, the same year as the escape of 
water. They say it hadnt been repaired between being installed and Ageas carrying out 
works to the kitchen. So they say it can only have been the contractors who caused the 
damage meaning the dishwasher had to be secured to the kitchen island, which has caused 
a crack to it. 
Ageas say the kitchen island wasnt new when it was removed and was showing signs of 
wear and tear. It says its contractors only used existing holes in the kitchen island to refit it. 
And if it had caused the damage during the course of the claim, it could have easily been 
included in the scope of works. So it doesnt accept it caused the damage Mr and Mrs C 
described. 
From looking at the photographs, it seems to me that one of the legs had broken off the 
dishwasher, which meant it had to be propped up on a wooden plinth. It is that plinth that is 
then screwed into the kitchen island, probably for stability. Mr and Mrs C have said the 
dishwasher was relatively new when the claim was made, so I consider the leg was unlikely 
to have broken off during the original fitting of it. And theres no evidence it was disturbed 
between when it was installed and when the business removed it as part of the claim. So I 
think its more likely this damage to the dishwasher leg happened during the claim. 
If the dishwasher wasnt supported on the wooden plinth, I dont think thered be a way (or 
reason to) secure the dishwasher to the kitchen island using the bracket that I can see in the 
photos. Which also lends me to think its more likely that this work was done by Ageas as 
part of reinstating the kitchen. It looks like its possible that the screw has been secured too 
tightly which has caused a small crack in the kitchen island. 
I accept the kitchen island was showing other signs of wear and tear at the time, and its 
possible that this drill hole, and crack, were there before the claim was made. But for the 
reasons given above, I dont think its most likely. Ageas has said Mr and Mrs C were back in 
the property for around nine months before this was raised as an issue, but that doesnt 
persuade me the damage happened in those intervening months. Mr and Mrs C said the 
only reason they noticed was because they had an issue with the dishwasher and it needed 
a repair. And due to the way the island is constructed, with all of the appliances being 
integrated, it wasnt possible to see the crack before they needed to look at the dishwasher. 
So having considered everything, Im persuaded on balance that Ageas was responsible for 
causing the small crack in the kitchen island. 
The more difficult bit is putting things right. Ive seen a quote from Mr and Mrs C for a new 
kitchen island, although theyve said theyll accept a £2,000 contribution for a new one. I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to ask Ageas to pay such a large contribution, for a 
relatively small area of damage. I havent seen anything which makes me think the island 
needs replacing due to this small crack. It seems to me that with the dishwasher in place, the 
crack wouldnt be visible (or if it is, not very noticeable) and if the leg of the dishwasher is 
now fixed it wouldnt seem necessary for it to remain secured to the island. So I dont think 
further damage would occur due to vibrations from the dishwasher, for example. 
Ive also taken into account that this damage was reported around 2018, and in the last three 
years, to my knowledge, the small crack hasnt caused any issues with the structural 
integrity of the kitchen island. So Im satisfied that the damage is only aesthetic and not 
causing further issues to the island. For that reason I dont think Ageas needs to make a 
contribution to replace the island. But I can see it has now agreed to pay £200. I consider this to be a fair and reasonable way 
to resolve matters. I think it would have caused some worry to see the dishwasher attached 
to the island in that way, and it probably caused inconvenience in having to sort this out 
when the washing machine was being repaired. So Ageas should pay £200 to resolve the 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited needs to pay £200 to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman