DRN-3780640
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) gave to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
Mr B was a deferred member of his employer's DB scheme. The scheme was in deficit and 
in January 2007 Mr Bs employer wrote to members offering them inducements to consider 
transferring out of it. The employer engaged JLT to offer scheme members advice on the 
suitability of a transfer. JLTs fees were met by the employer and JLT did not receive any 
commission for arranging transfers.
JLT gathered information about Mr Bs DB scheme entitlements. It asked Mr B to complete a 
fact find questionnaire including information about his attitude to risk. It also obtained a 
transfer value analysis report. Amongst other things JLT noted that Mr B was 49, employed, 
married and in good health. He was also paying into his employers money purchase 
pension scheme. He wanted to take the maximum tax free cash (TFC) from his pension 
when he turned 50 later that year to pay off his mortgage. He then wanted to reinvest the 
residual funds. He assessed his own attitude to risk under two separate descriptors:
Very cautious  in terms of his 25% tax free cash; and
Adventurous  for the remaining 75% of his funds.
Mr Bs DB pension had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £120,558. Mr Bs 
employer was offering Mr B an inducement to transfer of £164,442, taking the total CETV up 
to £285,000. If Mr B accepted the inducement and invested it then the growth rates required 
to match the benefits from the DB scheme (the critical yields) were 5.7% if Mr B took a full 
pension or 4% if he took 25% TFC and a reduced pension.
In April 2007 JLT sent Mr B a suitability report setting out its advice. It recommended that 
Mr B should transfer out of his DB scheme. Amongst other things it said Mr Bs two main 
objectives were to maximise his TFC and to retire early. It said the DB scheme didnt allow 
members to take any benefits from the scheme before the normal retirement age of 65 and 
so didnt match his objectives. It also said the critical yields were lower than the investment 
returns Mr B could expect from investing with his adventurous attitude to risk. It said it would 
need to gather further information from Mr B in order to recommend a suitable alternative 
arrangement for him.
In August 2007 JLT sent Mr B a supplementary suitability report. That recommended he 
should transfer his DB benefits to a named personal pension. It suggested Mr B invest 25% 
of the money from his DB scheme into a fund that matched a very cautious attitude to risk 
and the remaining 75% into another fund matching his adventurous attitude to risk.
On two separate occasions Mr B completed application forms to invest the transferred sums 
into the named personal pension. The first was for the £120,558 original CETV sum. JLT 
had suggested he should divide this sum between two funds with 25% of it in a fund with a 
very cautious risk profile and the remaining 75% in a fund with an adventurous risk profile. 
But Mr B altered the application form so the entire £120,558 was invested in the fund 
matching the very cautious attitude to risk. The second application related specifically to the 
£164,442 inducement sum. Mr B split the investment of this sum between two funds with 
adventurous volatility (risk) ratings. 
In July 2020, following the regulators industry wide thematic review, JLT told Mr B it was 
examining the advice it had given to him to transfer out of his DB scheme. It later said it 
thought its advice was suitable. 
Mr B complained to JLT in 2021. It didnt uphold the complaint. Amongst other things it noted 
that at the time of its advice Mr B was a financial services professional and held the 
appropriate qualification to work as a pension transfer specialist. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. In brief he didnt think JLTs advice was suitable for him. 
He said he was a very cautious investor. He added that at the time his experience only 
involved advising on pensions switches that involved a move from one pension to another of 
the same type. He didnt advise on transferring out of DB schemes.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. Mr B confirmed to our investigator 
that, amongst other things, hed used some of his TFC entitlement to pay off his mortgage 
after turning 50. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that while there were 
some flaws in JLTs advice, overall the evidence showed that Mr B could be better off by 
transferring.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other things 
he said: JLTs advice had been poor; its suitability report said the advice was restricted and 
as such didnt reflect his specific situation or give priority to his requirements; and the advice 
focused solely on critical yield without regard to his wider circumstances. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and responding to our investigators assessment of it Mr Bs made 
a number of points. I've considered everything hes said but in this decision I dont intend to 
address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being at the heart 
of Mr Bs complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business and the Code of Business rulebook 
(COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Of particular relevance to this complaint, at the time of JLTs advice the regulators guidance, 
set out in its rulebook (COB - 5.3.29) was:When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Having considered all the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for 
broadly the same reasons given by the investigator.
Attitude to risk 
Mr B told us that he had a very cautious attitude to risk. And as such JLTs fund 
recommendations weren't suitable. 
Mr Bs said that, when he completed the personal pension application form, he altered the 
funds to be invested into the lowest risk rating. He's also pointed out that at age 64 he 
bought an annuity, which also displays his cautious attitude to risk. But, I'm not persuaded 
that, because Mr B bought an annuity relatively recently, that is an indication of his attitude 
to risk at the time of JLTs advice, and at a point when he was much further away from 
retirement.
Its notable that JLT didnt assess Mr Bs attitude to risk itself. Instead it asked him which 
investment risk level was best suited to him. It gave him five options each with a narrative 
explaining what those options meant. The most conservative option was very cautious. 
Adventurous was the second highest risk taking level. 
Mr B clearly said that he wanted to treat 25% of his funds (the TFC amount) very cautiously. 
He said that was up until he turned 50 when he could access his TFC and use that sum to 
pay off his mortgage. For the remaining 75% of his fund, Mr B said he had an adventurous 
attitude to risk.
So, that would indicate that, by adopting a very cautious risk appetite for the TFC sum, Mr B 
wanted to ensure that amount didnt reduce between the time he invested it and the point, 
later that year, when he wished to access it to pay off his mortgage. But, that sum aside, he 
evidently wanted to take an adventurous approach to investing the vast majority of his funds. 
In those circumstances I think it was reasonable for JLT to believe Mr B had an adventurous 
attitude to risk.
Further, JLT sent Mr B its initial suitability report in April 2007. Its cover letter asked him to 
point out any errors in it. Apart from noting that Mr B wanted 25% of the fund to be treated 
very cautiously, the rest of the report referred to Mr B having an adventurous attitude to risk. 
But there's no evidence that Mr B sought to challenge that. And, when JLT sent Mr B its 
updated report in August 2007, it again referred to Mr Bs adventurous attitude to risk. 
However, theres no evidence Mr B told JLT he didnt agree with that assessment of his risk 
appetite at the time.
Mr Bs pointed out that, on the initial application for the personal pension, he changed the 
destination of the money so all of it was intended to go to a very cautious fund. I agree that's 
the case. But its also notable that when he applied to add the inducement sum to the 
personal pension, the two funds he chose were at the higher end of the risk scale. And a 
letter from JLT to Mr B confirms that these were his choices alone and were not those 
recommended by JLT. 
Further, in the information provided by the personal pension provider, it offered investments 
in various funds with seven levels of volatility (risk). It marked the least volatile funds as number 1 and the most volatile as number 7. The two funds Mr B chose to invest his 
inducement sum in were at volatility levels 5 and 6. In other words two of the three highest 
levels of risk. And he did this with the largest part of his fund. That was solely Mr Bs choice 
not JLTs. So, if Mr B found himself invested in funds that didnt match his attitude to risk, 
then given those were all selected by Mr B, I dont think that was JLTs fault.
Its certainly not unusual for investors to split their investments across funds with varying 
levels of risk. In that way the investor attempts to minimise the possibility of their overall 
funds reducing dramatically in the event of a market crash or a significant loss in one or 
more elements of the markets. And while I can't be certain why Mr B chose the investment 
strategy that he did, I dont think his actions, in investing the majority of the DB funds in 
higher risk assets, demonstrates he had a very cautious attitude to risk. 
Also, at that time Mr B was working in the financial services industry and was qualified as, 
amongst other things, a pension transfer specialist. So hed have been trained in giving 
financial advice on pensions transfers and investments too. And while he might not have 
advised on DB transfers explicitly, its reasonable to assume he had sufficient understanding 
that investing always carries an element of risk. I think its equally reasonable to assume that 
somebody working in that field would be aware of how those risks can affect fund 
performance. And, Mr B clearly recorded his own attitude to risk as adventurous for the 
majority of his invested funds. So I think it was reasonable for JLT to generally treat Mr B as 
an adventurous investor and tailor its advice to an individual with that level of risk. 
Financial viability 
JLT advised Mr B during the period when this Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our 
website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was 
being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable at the time.
The critical yield required to match Mr Bs benefits at age 65 was 5.7% if he took a full 
pension and 4% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The relevant discount rate closest to 
when the advice was given which I can refer to was published by this Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017, and was 6.5% a year for 15 full years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection 
rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5% a year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
adventurous attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In this instance, the discount 
rate was higher than the critical yield of 5.7% if Mr B chose not to take TFC and significantly 
higher if he did take TFC. And Mr B had made it clear that he intended to take TFC. Further, 
given his attitude to risk, Mr B could anticipate that his investments would increase at a rate 
between the regulators middle (7%) and higher levels (9%). That meant there was a 
sizeable gap between the regulator's projected growth rates and the critical yields, 
particularly given Mr Bs plan to take TFC. And in those circumstances I think it was 
reasonable for JLT to conclude that Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a significantly 
higher overall value than the DB scheme at retirement as a result of transferring and 
investing in line with his attitude to risk.
Mr Bs said that JLT focused too much on the critical yields. Critical yield shouldnt be the 
only measure by which to determine whether or not a DB transfer might be suitable. But, I 
find it a useful tool when assessing advice suitability as it is a reasonable comparison of the 
growth required in order to replace DB benefits with something of a similar nature, which would provide a guaranteed income for life. And in this case the evidence is that Mr B should 
have been able to exceed the relevant critical yield by transferring out of his DB scheme. 
Further, JLTs TVAS showed that, if investment grew at the mid-level, then Mr Bs yearly 
pension income would have been over 35% higher than his DB scheme at retirement. With 
this in mind, I dont think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was 
unsuitable for Mr B as it meant it was more likely than not that hed be better off. 
But financial viability isn't the only factor when considering suitability of advice to transfer out 
of a DB scheme. So I've gone on to consider some of the other important issues in this case. 
Mr Bs circumstances and objectives 
Mr B said that JLT restricted its advice and as such it didnt reflect his wider circumstances 
or give priority to his requirements. He specifically referred to wording within JLTs suitability 
report in which it noted it was limiting its advice to his pension requirements. So, it said it 
hadn't taken account of his other financial planning needs and added that it couldnt be sure 
its recommendation was appropriate to his overall circumstances. I agree that when read in 
isolation that would seem to say that JLT was basing its advice on limited information.
But its evident from the file that JLT gathered information about Mr Bs income, family and 
his circumstances. And, while it could perhaps have delved deeper, I don't think doing so 
would have led to a different outcome.
It might help if I explain that, its quite common for financial advising firms to offer a range of 
services, including, for example, assessing their clients needs in areas like debt 
management, loans and mortgages, insurance, as well as investments and pensions advice. 
And where, as happened here, a consumer asks the advising firm to limit its advice to a 
specific area, its usual for the advising firm to remark that  as it's not been tasked with 
looking into other areas where it could offer help  it won't comment on those. So, its quite 
common for advising firms to include wording of this nature when it is limiting its advice to 
one specific financial area.
I think that was the extent of JLTs wording which Mr B has objected to in this instance. That 
is, it wasn't saying it didnt have enough information with which to advise Mr B, it was simply 
saying that it hadn't done a holistic examination of all his potential financial planning 
requirements. And as such, if there were other issues that could affect its advice, it wouldnt 
become aware of them. 
Further, its notable that, when it sent Mr B its first suitability report in April 2007 it told Mr B 
that, at that time, it didnt have enough information in order to match his sophisticated 
investment requirements. And it then spent time gathering further information from him in 
order to make a suitable recommendation. In other words it didnt attempt to advise Mr B 
when it knew it didnt have enough specific information to recommend an appropriate 
investment provider. So, I think that would also have been its approach if it felt it didnt have 
enough detail to give informed advice.
That said, I think there are gaps and flaws in JLTs advice. For example, Mr B made it clear 
that he wanted to transfer in order to take maximum TFC so he could pay off his mortgage. 
But there was no evidence Mr B was struggling to pay his mortgage or had other pressing 
debts that would mean he would need to take TFC at the earliest opportunity to relieve such 
a burden. So, I think JLTs advice should have addressed that point and challenged Mr B 
about his wish to use his pension funds to pay off his mortgage early. In doing so, in my 
view, it should have recorded exactly how much Mr B felt he needed to pay off the mortgage and looked to see if he could achieve that by another method other than transferring out of 
his DB scheme.
JLT could also have included figures within its TVAS to show the effects on Mr Bs 
investments over time if he took the maximum TFC at age 50 (the earliest age he could take 
it). But it didnt do that. And in order to give robust advice I think it should have done.
Mr Bs said that as JLT didnt give him complete advice, it should carry out a calculation to 
establish if hes suffered a loss because of that incomplete advice. But before I would 
instruct JLT to make such a calculation I would have to be persuaded that its actions were 
unfair or unreasonable and were the cause of any potential loss. I dont think they were.
As I've already said, the evidence is that Mr B was likely to be better off in retirement as a 
result of transferring out of his DB scheme. Doing so also allowed him to pay off his 
mortgage at age 50, and while this - on its own - wouldnt have been something that was 
worthwhile giving up guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme for, it was one of his main 
objectives. And as such I dont think its fair to say that JLT didn't give priority to Mr Bs 
requirements, even if it may have been an objective that JLT should have challenged. But 
given that the transfer was financially viable, that is it would most likely make Mr B better off 
in retirement, it was an advantage that came with the transfer. 
Despite his professional background, Mr B was still entitled to receive a robust advice 
process and advice tailored to his needs and objectives. But I think that background also 
meant that Mr B would have attained a certain level of knowledge to understand the risks 
inherent with any investment decisions he took. And I think that knowledge and 
understanding would also have enabled Mr B to challenge the advice at the time, if he felt it 
wasnt suitable. Ive seen no evidence he did that. 
In this instance the information from the TVAS and the regulators projections, indicated that 
Mr B was likely to be considerably better off by transferring in retirement. And I think Mr B 
should have understood that, even if he didnt fully grasp the methodology or the terminology 
in the TVAS report. And I think that even with the gaps in JLTs advice, it gave him enough 
information to make an informed decision. It follows that I'm not persuaded that Mr B only 
transferred out of his DB scheme as a result of any flaws in JLTs advice process. 
Summary
There were undoubtedly areas where JLT could have improved its advice. It certainly could 
have done more to challenge Mr Bs desire to take TFC to pay off his mortgage with a 
detailed comparison of what he would be giving up as a result. But, from the information 
available to JLT at the time, a transfer would most likely put Mr B into a more advantageous 
position in terms of retirement income than by remaining in the DB scheme. So, I think JLTs 
advice was suitable for Mr B as I think it did enough to clearly demonstrate it was in his best 
interests. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman