DRN-3642081
The complaint
Mr O complains that he bought a holiday club membership with finance provided by 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (BPF). The supplier of the club membership is no 
longer able to provide the services he bought. Because BPF provided the finance, Mr O says 
that it is liable to meet his claim for breach of contract.      
What happened
In August 2006 Mr O and his wife bought membership of a holiday club. They paid £18,950, 
and most of that was provided by way of a loan from BPF, arranged through the club. The 
membership agreement provided a membership number, indicated the membership level 
(Island) and the occupancy (4), and confirmed that membership of the club would give Mr 
and Mrs O access the its reservation system.  
On 5 August 2008 Mr and Mrs O agreed to upgrade their membership. They signed another 
agreement. It was in similar form to the 2006 agreement, but included two membership 
numbers, and a different membership level (City) and occupancy (2). The agreement also 
recorded that Mr and Mrs O paid £1,000 by debit card and £5250 by bank transfer. In 
addition it said Apt/Weeks received as payment ISLA-xxxx.  
A membership certificate was issued in respect of each membership number. Each 
certificate confirmed that Mr and Mrs O were entitled to one membership at City level until 1 
January 2050.   
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs O, along with other club members, received a letter from a 
financial services business in the British Virgin Islands. The letter gave notice that the 
company which managed the holiday club had been placed into liquidation and that 
liquidators had taken control of its assets. The club was no longer viable and was unlikely to 
be able to provide services to members in the future. 
The letter also explained that an unrelated holiday company had offered to provide holiday 
accommodation to members at discounted rates for three years. Members could choose to 
take up that offer and relinquish their membership, relinquish their membership but not take 
up the offer, or keep their membership (but receive no benefit). 
Mr O thought that these developments meant that the holiday club had breached his and his 
wifes agreement with them. It was no longer able to provide them with the benefits they had 
bought  and which were supposed to continue until 2050. He complained to BPF, on the 
grounds that it had financed the holiday club membership. 
BPF said that it agreed there might be a breach of contract and asked Mr O to provide proof 
that he was still a member of the holiday club. When it reviewed the position, however, BPF 
said that, whilst it had financed the 2006 agreement, it had not financed the 2008 agreement 
which replaced it. It therefore had no liability to Mr O under section 75(1) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. 
Mr O did not accept BPFs response and, through a representative, referred the matter to 
this service. Our investigator considered what had happened but indicated that she was 
broadly in agreement with BPFs assessment. Mr Os representative said in response that all 
the transactions were linked, and that section 75 did therefore apply. She asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
There is no question in my view that the initial purchase of the holiday club membership in 
2006 was partly financed by the BPF loan. Im satisfied too that the lending was provided 
under pre-existing arrangements between the holiday club and BPF. And I note that BPF 
accepts that there may have been a breach of contract when the club management indicated 
that it would not be able to provide membership benefits after 2020. 
The issue I must consider therefore is whether, as Mr O argues, the 2008 agreement was 
financed by the 2006 loan or whether, as BPF says, it was the subject of separate financing 
arrangements.         
Both the 2006 and the 2008 purchase agreements set out the Purchase Terms  that is, 
how the purchase would be funded. The 2006 agreement included a reference to FIN, 
finance arranged by the club. The 2008 agreement, however, referred to: DEBI, a debit 
card payment; BGIRO, a bank transfer; and Apt/Weeks received as payment. In my view, 
this was a reference to a part-exchange arrangement, where the initial membership was 
swapped for the new memberships. 
I believe therefore that the correct analysis here is that the 2008 membership contract 
replaced that taken out in 2006. Mr and Mrs O entered into a new contract; they and the club 
did not amend the existing contract. If, therefore, the club management was in breach of any 
contract with Mr and Mrs O, it was in breach of the 2008 contract. 
The 2008 membership contract was not, however, financed by BPF. It was, according to its 
terms, financed by a combination of a card payment, a bank transfer and the surrender of 
the existing membership rights. No credit was involved. 
Mr Os representative says that the contracts (including the loan contract) were all linked, 
and that section 75 does apply. I agree that they were linked, in the broad sense that the 
surrender of the 2006 membership arrangements funded the 2008 membership contract. I 
do not believe however that a link of that nature is sufficient for section 75(1) to apply to the 
2008 contract. The arrangements could have been structured in that way, but I do not 
believe that they were in this case. 
It follows that BPF did not finance the contract in respect of which a breach is alleged and 
that its response to Mr Os claim was therefore reasonable.   My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Os complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman