DRN-4037377
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) blocked her account without 
explaining why, and then subsequently closed it. Shed like to be compensated.
What happened
Ms C held an account with NatWest. In November 2022 the bank began an internal review, 
and placed blocks on her account. She discovered this when she couldnt withdraw money. 
She complained to the bank, explaining she was a vulnerable individual who needed access 
to her funds. NatWest responded to say they were sorry the block had left her in a great deal 
of distress, but they had acted in line with their terms and conditions. They didnt see a bank 
error.
Unhappy with this Ms C referred her complaint to our service. NatWest then wrote to her to 
let her know that they would be closing her account in 60 days. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened, and discovered Ms Cs account had been unblocked already, 
but she hadnt been informed of this.
The investigator thought the complaint should succeed in part. She said that she was 
satisfied that the original blocking of the account was in line with NatWests legal and 
regulatory obligations. She was also satisfied that NatWest had closed Ms Cs account fairly. 
But she felt NatWest should have been clearer to Ms C about when her account was 
unblocked, as she didnt know she had access to her funds. The investigator also thought 
NatWest should have allowed Ms C access to her benefits. She recommended the bank pay 
Ms C £175 in recognition of the distress this would have caused.
NatWest agreed, but Ms C didnt. She raised concerns about how she was treated in branch 
when trying to withdraw funds. The investigator reassessed her opinion, and asked NatWest 
to pay £225, which the bank agreed to. But Ms C still didnt think this was fair compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its right to say that NatWest have certain legal and regulatory obligations to meet when 
providing accounts. This can mean on occasion they need to carry out a review of the 
activity on an account and prevent further transactions while they do this. NatWest arent 
under any obligation to explain the reason for the review and have declined to do so here. I 
cant say theyve done anything wrong by this. But I would expect them to carry out any 
review quickly, and in a reasonable timeframe.
In this case I can see NatWest began their review on 9 November 2022, and it was 
completed by 22 November 2022. I dont see this as an unreasonably long time for the 
review to be carried out. The blocks on Ms Cs account were removed after this  but 
crucially they dont seem to have informed Ms C of this fact. The response to her complaint 
sent on 30 November suggests the account is still frozen, and the account closure notice 
sent on 6 December doesnt clarify that the account can still be used.
I can see that regular payments from Ms Cs account couldnt be made while it was blocked 
 but as I consider the block to be fair, Im not going to ask NatWest to compensate for the 
inconvenience of these missed payments. Likewise, I wouldnt ask them to make up for any 
inbound payments which were returned to source during the block.
The terms of Ms Cs account state that NatWest can close an account for any valid reason  
so long as they give the required notice of two months. This is in line with the regulations for 
payment accounts, as well as common industry practice. Generally, this is to allow 
consumers time to move their money and regular payments elsewhere. Im satisfied that 
NatWest gave the correct notice to Ms C about the decision to close her accounts. Similarly 
to the account review, the bank arent required to give Ms C specific reasons for the account 
closure. But here Im satisfied this was a legitimate commercial decision by NatWest. I can 
appreciate why Ms C would be disappointed that her account was closed, but NatWest 
havent been unfair in making this decision.
But I can see there were failings on the part of NatWest  such as not letting her know her 
account was available to be used, and for not allowing her to withdraw her benefits. I can 
see how these would have inconvenienced Ms C and caused her unnecessary frustration. 
Ive considered what Ms C has said about the service she received in branch. The 
recollection of the branch staff when looking to withdraw funds and having to leave empty 
handed. The recollection provided by branch staff is different from what Ms C has told us. 
Im not going to know for certain what happened in branch that day, but I accept Ms C didnt 
get access to her funds when she should have. Ive taken this into account when considering 
the overall service from NatWest.
Its right that NatWest pay Ms C a degree of compensation for the frustration and upset 
caused. Im satisfied that £225 is a fair reflection of the impact on Ms C.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Ms C £225 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman