DRN-2127271
The complaint
Mr S and Ms P complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined part of their claim and provided poor service, under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2019 Mr S and Ms P found a leak in their home. They contacted Lloyds to register 
the claim. They confirmed to Lloyds that they could see where the leak was coming from. 
The advisor informed Mr S and Ms P that because the leak had been traced by them, this 
part of the claim wouldnt be covered. They were told to instruct a plumber to fix the leak and 
if there was still a leak present after the repair, Lloyds would reconsider the claim.  
Lloyds also informed Mr S and Ms P, that once the leak had been repaired it would send out 
a surveyor to assess the damage. A few days later Mr S confirmed that the leak had been 
repaired and Lloyds instructed a surveyor to assess the damage..
The surveyor found two areas of where leaks had occurred and informed Mr S and Ms P that 
the leak that had come from the shower seals wasnt covered by the policy as this was a 
maintenance issue. The other leak area (behind the shower) was accepted.  
There followed several communications between Mr S and Lloyds, in which Mr S sought to 
get Lloyds to agree with the level of damage he felt should be covered under the policy. He 
said this would cost around £7,000. Lloyds referred this information back to the surveyor 
who confirmed that the only damage covered would be from the leak from behind the 
shower, which cost significantly less to repair than Mr S wished Lloyds to cover. 
Mr S said that there was no leak from the shower seal and because of his view, Lloyds 
instructed another surveyor to inspect the shower. That surveyor reached a similar 
conclusion as the first surveyor and said that the damage caused from the leak from the 
shower seal, wasnt covered by the policy. Lloyds also instructed a claim consultant who 
agreed with the other surveyors. 
Mr S and Ms P raised a complaint to Lloyds as they were unhappy with the level of service 
they had received, there had been a delay in Lloyds cancelling the policy when they had 
asked it to and because part of their claim had been declined. 
In its final response, Lloyds said that the damage caused by the leak from the shower seal 
had been gradual and was excluded by the terms of the policy. As to the trace and access 
term, it said that as Mr S had traced the source of the leak, it would also not apply. Finally, it 
recognised that there had been a delay in cancelling the policy when Mr S and Ms P had 
requested it to be cancelled. For this Lloyds offered £50 compensation for the trouble and 
upset it caused. 
Mr S and Ms P were not happy with Lloyds outcome and raised a complaint with this 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said:
That Lloyds followed the relevant policy terms and conditions when it declined part of 
the claim.
Lloyds had relied upon reports from different experts who had assessed the damage 
and who came to the same conclusions.
Most of the delays experienced were unavoidable. So there was nothing further she 
could reasonably ask Lloyds to do. 
Mr S and Ms P didnt agree with our investigators view as they said the trace and access 
clause in the policy was pointless, the shower seal didnt leak and the surveyors from the 
insurer were not independent nor were they suitably qualified. So they asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr S and Ms P, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
I note that Mr S and Ms P have made a few detailed points, which I have read and 
considered. I hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to 
respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
When Mr S and Ms P registered the claim with Lloyds, Mr S mentioned that he could see 
water leaking slowly from a pipe behind a shower. Lloyds told Mr S that because he knew 
where the leak was coming from, the trace and access clause of the policy wouldnt apply. I 
have reviewed the terms and conditions to see if Lloyds fairly applied this term to the claim. 
In section 14 of the policy the term details the trace and access clause. It reads: if there is 
damage to your building caused by an escape of water . and you cannot reasonably 
determine the location of a leak, then we will cover the cost of removing and replacing.. I 
think that the clause is clear in that, if a leak couldnt reasonably be located, then Lloyds 
would cover the cost of finding the source of the leak. In this case, Mr S described where the 
leak was coming from and it was clear that the leak could be reasonably located. So it 
doesnt seem if any trace and access works had needed to be completed. Consequently, I 
think that Lloyds were fair in relying upon this term when it declined this part of the claim. 
Lloyds took steps to find out how the damage was caused, by instructing surveyors to carry 
out inspections. The first surveyor reported that: 
We have inspected the reported internal damage and noted that there is damage caused in 
the property as a result of an escape of water from a leaking pipe to the shower and there is 
also long-term damage from a leak on the side of the shower which is very evident to the 
Policyholder. The Surveyor has informed the customer that the damage from the leaking 
pipe is covered, but not from the failed seal of the shower. . 
From this conclusion, Lloyds accepted the damage caused by the leak from behind the 
shower. But it declined the secondary damage that was caused due to the failed shower 
seal. In addition, the terms and conditions of the policy provide that failed shower seals and any 
resultant damage are not covered: What we dont cover:  damage caused by the failure or 
lack of sealant and/or grout.. So based on the surveyors evidence, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to have relied upon this exclusion clause, when it declined this part 
of the claim. 
Despite the first surveyors conclusions Mr S and Ms P remained unhappy with the partially 
declined claim. So Lloyds instructed its claim consultant who inspected the damage and 
came to the same conclusion. I think that this was an appropriate response from Lloyds to 
try and ensure the claim was fairly assessed.
Mr S and Ms P were still disappointed by the outcome of their claim. So, Lloyds instructed 
another surveyor to inspect the damage and to advise on its cause.  I think this was a more 
than fair response, given two experts had already assessed the cause of the damage. The 
report from that surveyor said:
 have attended site today to assess damage within property. In my professional opinion 
the damage caused with the property was caused by 2 issues. Issue 1- there was a leaking 
mains water pipe which feeds the shower in the ensuite. This has caused water to drip down 
in the cavity and affect the floor directly under shower, damage to plasterboard walls and 
ceilings in HSL along with damage to carpet. The leak has been fixed and due to amount of 
time the area has dried naturally. Issue 2- I feel the damage caused to plaster walls, skirting 
and bedroom carpet was caused due to a failed seal around the shower.
This evidence clearly supported the findings of Lloyds other independent experts.
Mr S and Ms P were asked to provide independent evidence that would support their 
position that there was no leak from the shower seal and the secondary damaged was 
caused as a result of the leak behind the shower. I havent seen any additional evidence. So, 
as far as I am aware the only expert evidence available is that of the surveyors whose 
reports do not support Mr S and Ms Ps position. I think that it was fair for Lloyds to place 
significant weight upon these reports when it assessed and declined this part of the claim.  
Mr S and Ms P have questioned whether the surveyors used, were suitably qualified, as 
opposed to the independent local repairers. I have read the surveyors reports and they 
explained what damaged would be covered under the claim, what would be declined, how 
and what caused the damage. Also, I note that the surveyors conclusions were consistent. 
So, in the absence of any contrary expert evidence from Mr S and Ms P, I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to rely upon those reports. 
Overall, I think that Lloyds has dealt with Mr S and Ms P reasonably and I am satisfied that it 
applied the policy terms fairly. So I cant fairly ask Lloyds to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Ayisha SavageOmbudsman