DRN-4470073
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B had a motor insurance policy with Ageas covering her car. She bought her policy 
from a broker, who Ill refer to as S.
In October 2022 she was involved in a collision, damaging her car. The third-party admitted 
responsibility.
She reported the claim to S, which passed her to a third-party company who carry out 
accident management and credit hire services. Ill refer to this company as A.
Her car was assessed as being beyond economical repair by A.
A wasnt able to continue with the claim because the third party stopped responding, so it 
told Miss B to claim from Ageas. Miss B contacted Ageas about 3-4 months after the 
collision.
Ageas offered Miss B a settlement of £2,510 for her car, and it made a deduction of £300 for 
salvage.
Miss B wasnt happy about the value shed been offered or the deduction of the salvage 
amount and she complained about this and Ageas service including its response to her 
complaint.
Ageas didnt uphold her complaint about the valuation and the salvage deduction, and she 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint but Ageas didnt respond to her enquiries. So she 
issued her view on the evidence she had available. She thought Ageas valuation of her car 
was fair and that itd made the correct deduction of £300 for the salvage. She also said it 
needed to pay interest on the settlement figure at 8% simple.
Miss B didnt agree with the view. Because Miss B didnt agree, her complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision to clarify what I was able to provide a decision on, and to 
change the outcome:
Miss B has found herself in a complex situation involving several companies and she has my 
sympathy for trying to deal with multiple parties during a stressful time.
Its important that I explain to Miss B what matters Im able to make a decision on.
Miss Bs approach to this service is solely about Ageas. It may help if I say that Miss Bs car 
insurance policy was with Ageas. Im considering whether Ageas actions were fair and 
reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of that insurance policy.
Ageas didnt know about claim until Miss B told it in late January 2023, over three months 
after the collision happened. So its not fair of me to say it was responsible for any delays or 
events that happened before that time.
In her complaint, Miss B mentions that Ageas didnt agree to the same valuation as A; and 
that Ageas said she wasnt entitled to a hire car, but A said she was. Im not able to say 
whether As actions were fair as thats not the subject of this complaint.
Its crucial that Miss B understands it would be unfair of me to compare Ageas actions to 
those of A, because A and Ageas arent linked, and As operation is entirely different and 
has a different focus. All while remembering that Ageas didnt know about the claim during 
the time Miss B was discussing it with A.
For example, I can see Miss B complained about Ageas not paying her for her car in mid- 
February 2023, because she said shed agreed a settlement figure in December 2022. But 
shed agreed that amount with A, not Ageas. Ageas arent bound by another companys 
actions and are free to negotiate the value of Miss Bs car with her.
I would say that if Miss B wishes to make a complaint about As service, or S referring her to 
A, then shes free to do so and she may find she can access an appropriate dispute 
resolution service or ombudsman if she remains unhappy with their response.
Miss B has also expressed her disappointment that Ageas failed to understand what her 
complaint was about, and that it responded incorrectly.
Throughout Miss Bs complaint, and her subsequent approach to this service, Ageas has 
provided very little usable information.
It finally responded to this services requests in August 2023 and said it had sent payment to 
Miss B, without including interest, after this service requested it. But it didnt provide any 
further information in response to the questions we asked.
Looking at the evidence Ive been supplied, Im proposing to uphold Miss Bs complaint and 
Ill explain why. Im issuing this as a provisional decision in an effort to clarify the main parts 
of Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B said in July 2023 that her: complaint wasn't about the valuation, it was that they are 
refusing to send [her] the full valuation and deducting an amount of £300
Ive said above that I cant comment on As valuation of the car, and Ageas arent bound by 
As opinion. But what I can do is establish whether Ageas valuation is fair. This services 
approach is to use trade guides, and I can see that Ageass offer of £2,510 for her car is in 
the range of trade values I have access to. So I think Ageas offer is fair and reasonable.
But it also needs to pay interest at 8% simple from the date Miss B told it about the claim, to 
the date it made payment.
Its also apparent that Ageas deducted £300 from the payment due to salvage which would 
mean that Miss B retained the written-off car, so the amount shed receive would have a 
deduction of the written-off cars value.
But Miss B has said she doesnt have the car, A wrote it off and apparently disposed of it. So I dont think its fair that Ageas deduct the £300. I think it should pay this amount to Miss B, 
plus interest at 8% simple from the date she told it about the claim to the date it makes 
payment.
Ive thought about the impact of Ageas service on Miss B throughout her claim. Its 
important that I remind Miss B that Ageas didnt know about her claim until January 2023 
and so while I can appreciate shed been inconvenienced since October 2022, I cant 
reasonably say the first few months of that were Ageas fault.
I can also see that Ageas offered Miss B an interim payment in its final response, but Miss B 
didnt take that option. I know Miss B has said shed borrowed money to fund a replacement 
car in the meantime, but it seems to me that there was an offer from Ageas to pay her a 
substantial part of her cars value which might have meant she didnt need to borrow money.
But I also dont think Ageas has done enough here and Miss Bs distress caused by its 
claims service is clear. Ive considered this services guidelines on compensation and I think 
a payment of £200 for her distress is appropriate.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my final decision and reasoning remains 
the same. 
My final decision
ts my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Miss 
B:
8% simple interest on the settlement figure it paid her, from the date she told it about 
the claim to the date it made payment.
£300 in respect of the deduction for salvage. Interest at 8% simple should be added 
to this from the date she told it about the claim to the date it makes this payment.
£200 for her distress and inconvenience.
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Miss B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman