DRN-4052490
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Nelson Insurance Company Ltd have settled a claim against him 
by a third party as a fault claim under his Private and Public Hire insurance policy. And that 
theyve charged him an additional premium as a result of this. 
What happened
Mr A received a call from Nelsons claim handling agent, who Ill refer to as N, on 25 
November 2020 to say theyd received a claim against him for damage to a vehicle hed 
been involved in an accident with. They also said they wanted to arrange an inspection of his 
vehicle. Mr A told N he hadnt been involved in an accident. The same day N wrote to Mr A 
to explain who they were and asking him to complete an Accident Report Form. Mr A wrote 
to his insurance broker to check that N were acting for Nelson. His broker emailed him to 
confirm they were on 21 December 2020. Mr A submitted the Accident Report Form with a 
diagram of the accident and a photograph on 18 January 2021 and said N should not 
hesitate to contact him if they needed further clarification.
Mr A contacted N in March 2021 to query why the claim was still on his record. As N hadnt 
heard from the third partys insurer for some time, they decided to mark the claim as non-
fault (bonus allowed) and allow Mr As no claims bonus (NCB). N then heard from the third 
party claim handler in August 2021 that the third party still wanted to claim against Mr A. N 
then decided they wouldnt be able to defend the claim and settled it on a without prejudice 
basis. This led to Mr As NCB being reduced again. This was backdated to the renewal of Mr 
As policy and Nelson charged him an additional premium of £659 as a result of this, which I 
understand Mr A paid by adding it to the finance agreement he had arranged through his 
broker to pay the premium for his policy. 
Mr A complained and N issued a final response letter on behalf of Nelson. They said they 
thought theyd acted reasonably and were not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Mr A asked us to consider his complaint. One of our investigators did this. He explained that 
he didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. This was because he thought Ns view 
that they wouldnt be able to defend the third party claim on behalf of Nelson was reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view. He still felt that he was entitled to query who N 
were when they contacted him and that their decision to settle the claim was unreasonable, 
bearing in mind hed agreed to co-operate. In view of this, the investigator put the case 
forward for an ombudsmans decision. 
I reviewed the complaint and wrote to Nelson recently setting out my view on it informally. I 
said that I could understand why Mr A wasnt sure about who N were and felt he needed to 
check with his broker before co-operating with them. I went on to say that  in view of the 
fact it was clear in January 2021 that Mr A was willing to co-operate  I didnt consider Ns 
decision to settle the third party claim after hearing from the third party insurer in August 
2021 without further investigation was reasonable. I explained that whilst it was difficult to 
know whether N would have been able to defend the claim if they had tried to do so, I felt the 
fact they didnt even inspect Mr As vehicle and engage with him further about the incident 
meant the fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint was for Nelson to mark the claim as 
non-fault (bonus allowed), reinstate Mr As NCB, refund the additional premium he been 
charged and pay him £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator let Mr A know about my view and he said he was happy with it and had 
nothing further to add. 
Nelson dont agree with my view. Theyve said Ns details are on the first page of the policy 
provided to Mr A, so there was no reason he wouldnt have known who they were. And, 
because Mr A refused to cooperate regardless of how many times N explained to him it was 
to help them defend the claim against him, they still feel the decision to settle the third party 
claim on a without prejudice basis was reasonable. Especially, as no-one takes pictures of 
another vehicle when no impact has occurred. And they still feel Mr A wouldnt have made a 
credible witness if theyd tried to defend the claim and the case had gone to court.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Nelsons comments in response to my informal view on the merits of Mr As 
complaint. However, I do not agree with their comments that Mr A refused to co-operate. Or 
that no-one takes photographs when no impact has occurred. On the latter point I suspect 
many people take photographs to prove they did not cause damage to another vehicle if they 
feel they have been falsely accused of doing so. Once Mr A was satisfied that N were acting 
for Nelson he provided everything he had been asked to, and was clearly willing to have his 
vehicle inspected. I appreciate it took a while for Mr A to get to this point, but it seems N did 
not provide him with an accident location or details of the third party vehicle in their original 
call to him or in their first letter. So, I can see why Mr A was concerned about who they were. 
And, whilst details of N were in his policy document, I can understand why he may have 
instead turned to his broker to check them out. 
In view of this and Mr As positive response in January to Ns request for information and co-
operation, I cannot understand why N didnt see Mr A as a credible witness and at least 
further investigate the third party claim with a view to defending it. Nelson did of course have 
the right under the terms of Mr As policy to take over and deal with claims against him as 
they felt appropriate. But they needed to exercise this right reasonably to fulfil their obligation 
to handle claims fairly. And I dont think they did. 
It is now not possible to know what would have happened if N on behalf of Nelson had done 
what they should have done and further investigated and considered defending the third 
party claim. But, it is possible Mr A has lost out because of their unreasonable decision not 
to do this. Plus  in my opinion  it was unreasonable for N to suggest Mr A wouldnt have 
made a credible witness. And I think it may have been possible for Nelson to defend the 
claim against him. In view of this, I think that as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to 
Mr As complaint Nelson should mark the claim as non-fault (bonus allowed) and reinstate 
Mr As NCB. This means they will need to refund the £659 they charged him when they 
reduced his NCB, plus any additional interest Mr A paid on this as a result of it being added 
to the instalment plan he had in place to pay for his policy. This is because I dont think it 
was appropriate for Nelson to charge the additional premium in view of their unreasonable 
decision to settle the third party claim against Mr A without further investigation. And he 
should not have had to pay it or pay interest on what he borrowed to cover it.   
I also think the unreasonable approach by N on behalf of Nelson caused Mr A unnecessary distress and inconvenience and Nelson should pay him £100 to reflect this.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr As 
complaint is for Nelson to mark the third party claim against him as non-fault (bonus allowed) 
on their records and any external databases they placed it on. I also consider Nelson should 
refund the additional premium Mr A paid when his NCB was reduced. They should also 
refund any interest Mr A paid on this as a result of it being added to the instalment plan in 
place to pay the premium for his policy. I also consider Nelson should pay Mr A £100 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint about Nelson 
Insurance Company Ltd and I order them to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things 
right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman