DRN-2620777
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) declined his claim for 
valuables stolen from his car.
What happened
Mr N has a mobile and gadget insurance policy taken out with his bank account. The 
policy provides cover for mobile phones and essential gadgets such as laptops, 
cameras, tablets and smartwatches.
On 23 July 2020, Mr N parked and locked his car and went into the bank for around 
20 minutes. When he returned, he found that the passenger car window had been 
smashed and the bag which contained his personal items (which included a laptop 
and two cameras) had been stolen. Mr N registered a claim with Assurant and proof 
of purchase was requested.
Assurant contacted Mr N on 29 July 2020 to obtain further information about what 
had happened.  Mr N said the bag was left in the footwell of the passenger side of 
the car with a fleece on the passenger seat. He explained he left the car locked and 
the windows were tinted so it would have been difficult to see inside. 
The claim was assessed and declined. Assurant says it was declined in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr N didnt agree with Assurants response, so he brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded it should not be upheld. 
She considered the terms and conditions of the policy which state that the item/s 
should be locked away out of sight. And if they couldnt be locked away then they 
should be left with someone trusted or concealed out of sight in a safe place. As
Mr N had left the items in the footwell of his car and they were partially visible, she 
concluded that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Assurant to accept the claim. 
Mr N doesnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me. He says he a disabled 
veteran and has been medically discharged from service due to injuries he sustained. 
Hes therefore unable to take his bag with him. Hes explained the bag was locked in 
the car, the valuables were left out of sight and the windows were tinted. He also 
says the whole incident is being overlooked by technical terms and assumptions 
rather than common sense.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be able to uphold Mr Ns complaint, I need to decide if the claim was declined 
outside of what would be expected in the terms and conditions of the policy and 
whether, in doing so, Mr N was treated unfairly or unreasonably.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy, I think the claim has been 
declined in line with these. The terms that apply say:
Taking care of your device means 
Not knowingly leaving your device somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or 
damaged. Just think, would you leave your wallet or purse there?
If you need to leave your device somewhere then we expect you to lock it 
away out of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must 
leave it with someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
We will always take into account where you are and what you are doing when 
we assess whether you have taken care of your device. If we believe you 
have not taken care of your device, and have knowingly taken a risk with it, 
we may decline your claim.
For example, if you knowingly do any of the below we may decline your claim 
for not taking care of your device:
leaving your device somewhere you cant see it but others can.
leaving your device on display in your car.
While Mr N says he left the items in the footwell of the car and also partially covered 
the bag with a fleece, under the terms of the policy, he was expected to lock the 
items away out of sight or leave them concealed out of sight in a safe place. Looking 
at what happened, it doesnt appear that he went far enough to do either. So on that 
basis, I dont think the claim has been declined unfairly. 
Mr N says the incident is being overlooked by technical terms and assumptions 
rather than common sense. However, its important to note that the terms provide the 
basis on which the contract was agreed and while they may be technical, they need 
to be considered in the context of the claim as well as whether theyve been applied 
in line with whats expected.
I acknowledge the car window was tinted and it would have been more difficult to see 
into the car. But I think there was still the likely possibility the bag could be seen. 
Therefore, in leaving the items there, it still presented the risk that they werent 
necessarily out of sight and/or in a safe place.
I appreciate Mr N says he didnt have space in the boot as it was full. Ive considered 
this but ultimately, there was a risk associated with leaving the items in the footwell of 
the car. Its likely Mr N recognised this by putting the fleece on the bag. But I think the 
bag would have been visible enough, even with the car window being tinted. While I 
appreciate the boot was full, Mr N didnt ultimately look to place the items either out 
of sight and/or in a safe place.
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Assurant declined the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Im also satisfied it treated Mr N fairly and reasonably in doing so. As such, I dont think Assurant needs to do 
anything further. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Assurant General Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman