DRN-4066210
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited intends to reduce the amount it will pay for 
a claim he made on his landlord insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr M is a landlord of a property which he insures 
through Fairmead.
On 29 April 2022, the property suffered damage caused by an escape of water, so Mr M 
made a claim to Fairmead. Following investigations, Fairmead said the property was 
underinsured. It valued the cost of rebuilding the property at around £447,000, but Mr M had 
insured it for only £151,110.
Fairmead accepted the claim was covered under the terms of the policy. But because the 
property was underinsured, it said the claim would be settled proportionately. Fairmead 
accepted an amended rebuild figure supplied by Mr M of £363,000. Based on this, it offered 
41.62% of the total repair costs as a settlement.
Mr M didnt agree this was fair. He said he should have been told he was underinsured. He 
also said that if he were over insured Fairmead wouldnt be looking to pay him money back. 
He brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint but felt Fairmeads approach was in line with the 
policy terms and was fair and reasonable. She said it was Mr Ms responsibility to ensure the 
sums insured were adequate, and that the policy documentation told him how he could do 
this, and how important it was.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision, to give the parties the opportunity to respond, before I reached my final decision.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So, 
Im issuing a provisional decision to give both sides the chance to reply before I 
reach my final decision.
The issue I need to decide here is whether it is fair for Fairmead to proportionately 
reduce the settlement of Mr Ms claim, in the way that it has.
Based on everything Ive seen, I agree that Fairmead can fairly and reasonably 
reduce the settlement Mr M is due. However, I dont agree that the specific reduction 
it has sought to apply is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain why, 
addressing each issue in turn.
Why it is fair to proportionately reduce the settlement
The sales literature Mr M was provided with explains the importance of the building 
sum insured (rebuild value) being accurate. It also sets out how Mr M could obtain a 
reasonable estimate. In my view this information is sufficiently prominent as its at the 
top of the document and highlighted by a black box. This explains:
IMPORTANT INFORMATION  
This policy may be based and rated upon the Buildings Sum Insured (BSI) 
which is the rebuild value or reinstatement values of your property as 
confirmed with us at the inception of this policy. Please read the following:
As the BSI is a major material fact of the policy we would advise that you 
check this value is correct to ensure that the cover provided under the policy 
is adequate as this may affect any claims which will be paid out on a pro rata 
basis if the building is deemed to be underinsured. We must advise that it is 
the policyholders responsibility to ensure that the BSI is adequate. If you are 
unsure or do not know the correct figure, we recommend that you check the 
Building Cost Information Service website (calculator.bcis.co.uk) to obtain the 
rebuild value or refer to a recent survey report which details this figure.
Mr M is a commercial customer. This means the relevant law which applies is the 
Insurance Act 2015. This states that Mr M was required to make a fair presentation of 
the risk to Fairmead. Particularly relevant to this complaint, that meant providing a 
reasonable estimate of the cost of rebuilding the property.
The importance of the of the rebuild value, and how Mr M could obtain a reasonable 
estimate of it was sufficiently highlighted when Mr M bought the policy. But Mr M 
didnt follow the guidance. Instead, he provided the market value figure for the 
property instead. Based on this, I agree with Fairmead that Mr M failed to make a fair 
presentation of the risk.
The Insurance Act sets out the remedies available to Fairmead if Mr M breached the 
duty of fair presentation. For deliberate or reckless breaches, the Insurance Act 
entitles Fairmead to void the policy and decline all claims. But here Fairmead has 
accepted the claim, so it clearly doesnt think Mr M made a deliberate or reckless 
breach. 
For all other breaches, the remedy available to Fairmead depends on what it would 
have done had a fair presentation been made. If Fairmead would have offered the 
policy for a higher premium, the Insurance Act says it may reduce the claim 
settlement proportionately  based on the amount of premium paid compared to the 
higher premium it would have charged.
Fairmead seems to understand this, as its policy contains the following term, with my 
added emphasis on the key wording, which is in line with approach set out in the 
Insurance Act:If the cost of rebuilding the buildings is more than your Sum Insured at the 
time of any loss or damage, then we will proportionally reduce the amount of 
any claim payment made by the percentage of under payment of premium 
which has arisen as a result of the shortfall in the sum insured. For example, 
if the premium you have paid for your buildings insurance is equal to 75% of 
what your premium would have been if your buildings sum insured was 
enough to reconstruct your buildings, then we will pay up to 75% of the claim 
made by you.
To summarise, Im satisfied that Mr M breached the duty of fair presentation with 
regard to the rebuild value of the property. The Insurance Act allows Fairmead to 
proportionately reduce the claim settlement, based on the premium shortfall, in these 
circumstances. And doing so is specifically in line with the terms and conditions of Mr 
Ms policy. So, taking everything into account, I think Fairmead can fairly and 
reasonably proportionately reduce the settlement Mr M is due.
Why the proportionate reduction applied by Fairmead is unfair
Fairmead initially said the BCIS estimate of the rebuild cost was around £447,000. 
But Mr M later obtained an estimate using the same tool which came out at 
£363,000. Fairmead agreed to use that valuation when calculating a fair settlement 
for the claim.
Fairmead has offered to settle the claim by paying 41.62% of the full cost of the 
claim. However, this percentage seems to be based on the difference between the 
rebuild cost declared by Mr M  £151,110  and the rebuild cost of £363,000. This 
approach is not in line with the remedies set out in the Insurance Act or the terms of 
Mr Ms policy.
The remedy set out in the Insurance Act, and the terms of Mr Ms policy, clearly state 
that any proportionate reduction will be based on the difference between the 
premium paid and the higher premium which would have been charged if the breach 
didnt happen/the property wasnt underinsured.
Fairmead has recently provided breakdown showing that the premium it would have 
charged, based on a rebuild value of £363,000, would have been £353.88. The 
premium Mr M actually paid was £166.32. This amounts to 47% of the premium 
which ought to have been paid. 
What this means is that Mr M has paid 47% of the premium due, yet Fairmead is only 
seeking to cover 41.62% of the claim. This doesnt seem fair and it isnt in line with 
the Insurance Act or Mr Ms policy. So, unless anything changes as a result of the 
responses to this provisional decision, Im minded to decide that Fairmead needs to 
increase the settlement to 47% of the total repair costs, rather than 41.62%.
Fairmead should also add 8% simple interest to any part of the 47% settlement that 
remains unpaid, from 29 May 2022 to the date of settlement. This is to compensate 
Mr M for being without funds he was entitled to under the terms of the policy but also 
recognising Fairmead would have needed a reasonable period of time to investigate, 
consider and pay the claim.Ive also considered whether to award any compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr M will have suffered as a result of Fairmeads incorrect approach. 
But as Mr Ms concern was with Fairmead seeking to apply any proportionate 
reduction at all, rather than with the amount, I dont think wed be in a fundamentally 
different position now, even if Fairmead had calculated the reduction in line with the 
Insurance Act and policy wording. So, in these circumstances, I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable to direct Fairmead to pay any compensation for distress or 
inconvenience.
I said I was intending to partially uphold Mr Ms complaint and to direct Fairmead to increase 
the claim settlement to 47% of the quote for reinstatement, plus 8% simple interest from 
29 May 2022 to the date of settlement. I asked both sides to provide any further comments 
or evidence they wanted me to consider by 11 April 2022.
Both sides have already responded to say they accepted my provisional conclusions. So, as 
both responses have been received, Im moving forward with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides confirmed their agreement with my provisional conclusions. So, in the absence of 
any new evidence or arguments to consider, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision  for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
Increase the settlement offer to 47% of the quote for reinstatement, less the policy 
excess.
Add 8% simple interest* to the amount due to Mr M from 29 May 2022 to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
*If Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman