DRN-1719858
The complaint
Mr F says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) should have done more to prevent him 
from becoming the victim of a banking payment scam. He says it should reimburse him for 
the money he lost.
What happened
On 20 March 2019 Mr F authorised an urgent online payment of £1,670.99 to, what he 
believed was an online accommodation booking company. He contacted NatWest on 
21 March 2019 to confirm hed been the victim of a scam. 
NatWest contacted the beneficiary bank (the bank used by the scammer) to try and recover 
Mr Fs funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank didnt confirm whether any funds remained. 
NatWest informed Mr F that it was unable to do anything further to recover the funds.
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr F complained to us. Our adjudicator didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think NatWest ought to have done more 
to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. And they felt NatWest 
had done enough to try and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. 
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And Ive taken that into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like NatWest are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which, as Mr F says, banks are generally more familiar 
with than the average customer.
In this case, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr F when he transferred £1,670.99, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Im very sorry to see that Mr F lost this money. But, having considered the circumstances, I 
do think NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the money to leave Mr Fs account. 
And I can see it took steps to try and recover funds from the beneficiary bank. So, I dont 
believe it needs to reimburse Mr F for the money he lost. Ill explain why.
Mr Fs accepted that he authorised the urgent transfer himself. Because of this, NatWest had 
an obligation to follow Mr Fs instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything remarkable about 
the payment that ought to have alerted NatWest to the scam. Mr F accepts he authorised the 
urgent payment. The payment was perhaps higher than Mr F typically made and was paid to 
an overseas bank account, but Mr F has told us hed previously made successful transfers to 
international bank accounts. Which suggests to me that such activity wasnt particularly 
unusual regarding Mr Fs account. 
So, I think the fact that NatWests systems didnt flag the payment as suspicious was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive taken into account that Mr F says he initially visited a branch of NatWest to make the 
payment but was encouraged by staff there to make the payment online. I dont know if 
thats the case but, even if it is, theres no guarantee the scam would have become apparent 
had he made it in-branch in any case due to its complexity.Ive also thought about Mr Fs comments about our published approach to such cases, which 
he believes mean his complaint should be upheld. However, the approach weve set out on 
our website isnt intended as guidance or a set of rules that must be followed  its more an 
indication of some of the factors we think about in reaching our decisions based on the types 
of complaints weve seen. Were required to take all the circumstances into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in each case and thats the approach Ive taken here.  
Mr F contacted NatWest on 21 March 2019 when he became aware that hed been the 
victim of a scam  the day after authorising the payment. NatWest raised a scam complaint 
and contacted the beneficiary bank to request a return of the funds but the bank didnt 
substantively respond. 
Any further investigation into what happened to the money after it got to the beneficiary 
account wasnt the responsibility of NatWest, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to that 
information. So, contacting the beneficiary bank to try and retrieve the money was all 
NatWest could do to help Mr F at that stage. For completeness, our adjudicator also 
contacted the beneficiary bank directly to try to determine what happened to Mr Fs money 
but without success. 
Overall, and while I appreciate Mr Fs been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think 
NatWests decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr Fs instruction to make the payment and I 
havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And I can see it took steps to try 
and recover the funds once it was notified of the scam.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman