DRN-2728715
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Avivas) handling of his claim and valuation 
of his classic car under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ws classic car was damaged in an incident in September 2020. Aviva said it was beyond 
economic repair.
An Aviva engineer who initially spoke to Mr W about his car said that hed seen similar cars 
had sold for around £50,000. Aviva have acknowledged their engineer made a mistake, as 
they said the car wasnt worth that amount given the condition it was in before the incident. 
After reviewing the damage, Aviva initially offered Mr W £10,000 in settlement, but increased 
this to £11,000. They told him he could have the car back for a salvage value of £2,750.
Mr W was unhappy as he felt the settlement figure was far too low. He acknowledged that 
his car needed some work but said he used it regularly before the incident. He also felt that 
Aviva had made up the figures for the cost of repairs. He wanted Aviva to repair or replace 
his car. He felt it was worth £40,000. So he complained.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She felt that Aviva had made a reasonable 
settlement offer.
Mr W didnt agree. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
First of all I need to look at the evidence around the pre-incident condition of the car. I note 
that it can be difficult to assess the value of a classic car. There are fewer cars available and 
their condition is an important driver of their value. Values found in the market place are 
usually based on cars in pristine condition, so arent always directly relevant to the vehicle in 
question. 
The pre-incident condition of the car
Aviva have provided detailed photographs of the car which show considerable pre-incident 
damage. These show the car to have been in a relatively poor condition prior to the incident. 
The photos also show that the incident damage was extensive. 
Aviva provided written details of the condition of the car. They said the following:
Condition - Poor (requires a full ground up restoration)
1. Vehicle steel tub is badly corroded with floor sections completely missing.
2. The steel tube/ box chassis is extensively corroded with structural sections crumpling and 
needing replacing.
3. The vehicles interior needs to be reupholstered/ refurbished, the seat covers are cracked/ 
torn and the foam is contaminated. The carpets are wet and need replacing and the dash is 
cracked.
4. The window rubbers are perished and crumbling.
5. The paintwork is peeling with large areas bare exposing the fiberglass body.
6. The fiberglass body panels are moisture contaminated and may be beyond restoration.
7. The chrome bumpers, lights and trim are badly pitted with rust forming.
Mr W has also provided photos which appear to show the car in better condition. But these 
are not recent photos. He did provide a photo from 2020 but it doesnt show much detail. 
Mr W has also said that some of the repairs Aviva have listed are relatively minor. While I 
acknowledge that, I can see that some of listed repairs are serious issues.
Avivas engineers used the 2020 Classics Car Price guide for the pre-incident value. They 
classified the car as Condition 3. This is used to class cars which usually need a full 
rebuild, but may be driveable and may have an MOT certificate. Mr Ws car was clearly 
driveable. It didnt have an MOT certificate, but it didnt require one.
The next class up is Condition 2. This is used for cars which are capable of regular use. 
They have a current MOT certificate but will need work and/or original parts.
Avivas senior engineer told us: Taking in to consideration the policyholders vehicle 
needing a full ground up restoration, I have used the Practical Classics CONDITION 3 
valuation (i.e. cars that need a full rebuild, but may be driveable and MoTd) of £11,000.
Based on the photo evidence, and the condition reports Ive seen, Im satisfied that Aviva 
werent unfair or unreasonable when they assessed the cars condition as Condition 3. 
The pre-incident market value of the car
Once Aviva had assessed the pre-incident condition of the car, they were able to use that 
information to provide a pre-incident market value.
Aviva assessed the pre-incident value of the car as £11,000. They got this value from the 
2020 Classics Car Price guide. I can confirm that a car of Mr Ws type in condition 3 is 
valued at £11,000 using this guide.
Avivas engineer also looked at other similar vehicles on the market. He shared information 
with this service of another similar car which was on the market for £15,000. But he 
explained in detail why that car was worth considerably more than Mr Ws. 
Our service doesnt value vehicles. Instead, we look to see whether the insurer has made a 
fair and reasonable settlement offer in the circumstances. And whether its offer is in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. So, Ive thought about this in Mr Ws case. Im 
persuaded that Aviva did what it could to find data on similar cars and that it came to a 
reasonable valuation based on that information. 
Now I need to look at whether the car was beyond economic repair after the incident.
 
Was the car beyond economic repair?
The policy states under Section 1  Loss or damage to your vehicle:
If your vehicle is lost, stolen, or damaged, we will:
-Repair your vehicle unless you notify us that you want us to pay someone else to repair it; or
-Pay you a cash amount equal to the loss or damage
The most we will pay is the market value of your vehicle
 
So, the policy booklet explains that the most Aviva will pay is the market value of the 
relevant car, when looking to cash settle a claim. This is the case with many other motor 
insurance policies we see.
Aviva initially assessed the repair costs of the car to be a little over £13,000. As this was 
greater than the assessed market value of £11,000, Aviva decided to pay Mr W a cash 
settlement, rather than repair the car. This is in line with the policy terms and conditions. So 
Im not persuaded that Aviva did anything wrong when they took this decision. 
I acknowledge that Mr W told Aviva he expected his car to be repaired or replaced, but his 
policy doesnt provide that cover. 
I understand that Mr W feels very strongly that Aviva shouldve repaired his car. Ive listened 
to the call between him and Aviva where he said he felt it was a poor decision by Aviva to 
not repair the car when there was only £2,000 difference between the settlement offer and 
the repair costs. But unfortunately Im not persuaded that Aviva did anything wrong.
Other evidence
Having established that the car was beyond economic repair, Aviva provided a further report 
detailing full restoration figures. These had been provided by an independent garage and 
came to more than £80,000. 
While Im not relying on this report, as its not directly relevant to this complaint, I do note 
that the full restoration costs are considerably greater than the pristine condition value Mr 
W thinks his car is worth. So it supports Avivas decision to deem the car beyond economic 
repair.
Id be grateful if Aviva could share this report with Mr W, as it may give him comfort that 
theyve carried out the appropriate repair analysis.
 
I also note that Mr W has said hed like his car back. Aviva have confirmed the salvage value 
of the vehicle is £2,750. This would be deducted from the settlement value if Mr W still wants 
it back.
I know this will be a disappointment to Mr W, but Ive not seen evidence that Aviva under-
valued his car. And Im satisfied that they followed the terms and conditions of his policy 
when they made the settlement offer rather than repairing his car. So I wont be asking them 
to do anything else.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman