DRN-4286246
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Heath Crawford Limited mis-sold an insurance policy 
for their house in multiple occupation (HMO) property.
What happened
S made a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy for rent arrears when one of 
their tenants vacated the property without paying. Their claim was declined on the basis that 
the policy doesnt cover unpaid rent. 
S raised a complaint to Heath Crawford as they believed the policy was mis-sold, but Heath 
Crawford said the policy covers everything S had specifically requested. 
As S remained unhappy, they bought the complaint to our service raising the following 
concerns:
They asked for a HMO policy but the insurance cover in place says it can only be 
utilised for owner occupied properties. 
The legal expenses insurance section contains exclusions which are set out at the 
end of the document, so it wasnt clear that theres no cover for pursuing tenants in 
court. This cover is usually included as standard.
Their complaint wasnt investigated properly, and the final response letter didnt 
answer their concerns.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied the policy covers HMO 
properties, and that the cover required for S claim wasnt requested nor was it available. As 
S didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me and I issued the following provisional 
decision.
My provisional decision
Is the policy HMO suitable?
S complains that the policy sold to them only covers claims where theyre the owner 
occupier, but I dont agree and Ill explain why. 
Ive reviewed the policy as a whole and its clear it covers properties that are tenanted. I say 
this because the policy terms, in addition to providing buildings and contents cover, 
specifically states theres cover for loss of rent arising from an insured peril. And there is a 
section of cover entitled Eviction Proceedings which covers the legal costs to evict a tenant 
and gain vacant possession of the property. This demonstrates that claims can be made 
where the property is not occupied by the owner and policyholder.
S refers specifically to section 3 of the legal expenses insurance which states:
Property
What is covered
The pursuit or defence of Legal Proceedings relating to Your rights as the owner or 
occupier of Property physically occupied by You.
S says this cover is limited to owner occupied properties but again, I dont agree. The policy 
says owner or occupier (my emphasis) not that S need to be both, so theres potentially 
cover available under this section. I understand S claim was declined due to an exclusion 
under this section, not because they didnt satisfy the term quoted above.
As such, I cant agree with S that the policy only provides cover for owner occupied 
properties and Ive seen no evidence to suggest its unsuitable for HMO properties.
Were the policy exclusions unclear?
S complains that the exclusions for the legal expenses section of the policy were at the end 
of the document, so it was unclear that S wasnt covered to take tenants to court for unpaid 
rent.
Ive been provided with a copy of the policy summary document which is 13 pages long and 
sets out the key features and the significant exclusions and limitations for each section of 
cover. The sections are set out in order of how they appear in the policy, with the legal 
expenses section starting on page 10.
Within the table, under the first column entitled key features, the heads of cover are listed 
along with a brief description. Eviction Proceedings is listed as a head of cover with a 
description stating pursuit of eviction proceedings against a tenant or guarantor to recover 
possession of premises occupied solely for residential purposes where the tenant fails to 
comply with the tenancy agreement. 
Its clear that this head of cover doesnt include pursuing the tenants for unpaid rent. And its 
clear that type of claim wouldnt fall under any of the other heads of cover based on the 
descriptions provided. So Im satisfied that from the snapshot of cover provided by this 
document, S wouldve seen they werent covered for rent protection or rent guarantee.
Ive also been provided with the full policy terms and conditions which is 71 pages. The legal 
expenses section starts on page 52 and each head of cover is set out separately, clearly 
stating what is and isnt covered. So I cant agree the exclusions are at the end of the policy 
and are unclear. I appreciate its a long document, but its a comprehensive policy with many 
sections of cover and the contents page wouldve assisted S in navigating to the right page.
I appreciate S feels the policy was mis-sold as it didnt benefit from rent protection and/or 
rent guarantee. But as our Investigator has explained, weve reviewed the correspondence 
between S and Heath Crawford  as well as listening to the call recording between them  
and we havent been able to identify that S asked for this cover. Heath Crawford says rent 
guarantee isnt available for HMO properties which is why it wasnt offered, and S hasnt 
provided evidence to the contrary to show this cover is available on the market and that they 
asked for it. So Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold.
Did Heath Crawford answer S complaint?
Looking at Heath Crawfords final response letter, Im satisfied it addressed S complaint. It 
explained that the policy was provided in line with S requirements. It said a number of areas 
of cover were discussed, and that rent guarantee cover, which would potentially cover this 
type of claim, isnt available for HMO properties so it wasnt offered or discussed.Its not clear which specific point S feels hasnt been addressed, and I appreciate Heath 
Crawford may not have gone into the level of detail S may have liked. But S is complaining 
that the policy doesnt cover HMO properties and hes been told many times that it does, so 
Im satisfied the crux of their complaint has been addressed.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither S nor Heath Crawford made any further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman