Page 1 of 2The complaint
Mr D complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) have calculated the balance 
remaining on his agreement incorrectly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Moneybarn sent Mr D a default notice in August 2019. That notice explained that he was in 
significant arrears on his account and that if arrears werent paid in full by 4 September 2019 
the total amount payable under the agreement would become due. As the arrears werent 
paid on time Moneybarn issued a termination letter in September 2019.
The terms of Mr Ds contract with Moneybarn gave them the right to terminate the contract. 
Those terms said if he failed to pay on time Moneybarn would be entitled to immediate 
payment of all payments and other sums due under this agreement up to the date of 
termination, less the proceeds of the sale of the car and less a rebate for early settlement.
That early settlement rebate was listed in the default notice as £6,396.56 and it was 
explained that amount would reduce if payment wasnt made by 4 September 2019.
DRN-3485015Page 2 of 2The Consumer Credit Act (1974) covers several areas of consumer credit including the 
content and form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination, 
and early settlement. In relation to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that 
settlement figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004 which explain the statutory rebate of interest when the term of 
a contract is reduced.
In October 2019 Moneybarn sent Mr D a bill in which they set out the amount he would have 
to pay them to settle the account once it had been terminated. The total amount payable on 
the account was reduced by the sales proceeds Moneybarn had received for the car and the 
current settlement figure took account of the rebate of interest that Moneybarn needed to 
apply.
Ive not checked that interest rebate as its a complex and automated calculation that will be 
subject to auditing at Moneybarn. But I am persuaded that they have taken everything into 
account I would expect them to when calculating the settlement figure and Im not therefore 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman