DRN-4052467
The complaint
Mr S, Mrs S, and Mr S2 complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited instructed a firm of 
solicitors they didnt want to use for a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Whilst this is Mr S2s claim, hes represented by Mr and Mrs S, so Ill refer mainly to them for 
ease of reading. 
Where I refer to Fairmead, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for 
which it takes responsibility.
What happened
In 2019, Mr and Mrs S son was involved in an accident which caused serious injuries. They 
made a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy to pursue legal action against the 
responsible party. 
Fairmead accepted the claim and appointed its panel firm of solicitors  who Ill refer to as 
D. Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with the way D handled their claim and raised a complaint. I 
understand this has been upheld by both D and the Legal Ombudsman.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Fairmead made them use D, despite this being the second 
time theyve had cause to complain about them. But Fairmead says it isnt responsible for 
the actions of its panel firm, who have their own regulations and governing bodies. 
The complaint has been brought to our Service, but our Investigator didnt uphold it. She 
said Mr and Mrs S agreed to use a panel firm and, even if they hadnt, the policy doesnt 
allow freedom of choice for legal representation unless its necessary to issue court 
proceedings or a conflict of interest arises  neither of which had happened here. 
Mr and Mrs S say they didnt ask to instruct a solicitor of their own choice, instead they said 
they didnt want to use D, but Fairmead said they had to. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S legal expenses insurance policy says:
At any time before the administrator agrees that legal proceedings need to be 
issued, the administrator will choose a professional adviser to act for you.
You can appoint a solicitor of your choice by sending the name and address of a 
suitably qualified person to the administrator:
i) Where the administrator agrees that legal proceedings have to be 
initiated, or
ii) If there is a conflict of interest.
As Mr and Mrs S legal claim was not at the point of needing to issue court proceedings and 
a conflict of interest hadnt arisen, Fairmead appointed their panel solicitors, D.
Mr and Mrs S tell us they objected to this, and whilst they didnt want to use a solicitor of 
their own choice, they didnt want to use that particular panel solicitors due to their past 
experiences. So Ive looked at the available evidence to determine what happened. 
Fairmead first assessed this claim during a phone call with Mr S on 13 June 2019. Ive seen 
a copy of the call notes which says:
PH calling for update on claim  informed claim covered, offered panel  accepted.
Mr and Mrs S say they expressed their reluctance to use D but were told they had no choice. 
So Ive obtained a copy of the call recording from Fairmead to determine exactly what was 
said. 
On that call, the advisor (A) confirms that they will appoint a panel solicitor to act on the 
case. And the following conversation takes place:
Mr S: Any idea who theyll be, or have you got to wait until its allocated?
A: Well, Im not going to be able to tell you the name of the solicitor, but I will be 
able to tell you the firm. It will be [D]. 
Mr S: [D]? Ok, thats fine.
Following this conversation, Fairmead sent Mr and Mrs S a letter to confirm D had been 
instructed. 
The next communication I could see on file regarding the panel solicitors was a phone call 
from Mr S where he expressed his dissatisfaction with D. This took place almost three years 
later, on 8 February 2022.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs S had been made to 
use D despite their objections. Im satisfied Fairmead instructed solicitors in line with the 
policy terms and it had no way of knowing that Mr and Mrs S wanted a different panel firm. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs S went on to experience problems with D. But as I dont 
hold Fairmead responsible for the actions of a solicitors firm, it follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S, Mr S and 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman