DRN-3486465
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the advice given by Towergate Financial (West) Limited
(Towergate) to transfer the benefits from her preserved defined-benefit (DB) occupational
pension scheme to a personal pension. She says she was coerced into making the transfer
with promises of better returns and guarantees when in fact she has suffered a loss.
What happened
Mrs M met with Towergate in February 2008 to discuss her pension and retirement needs.
Towergate completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Ms circumstances and
objectives. Towergate also carried out an assessment of Mrs Ms attitude to risk, which it
deemed to be balanced.
On 11 February 2008, Towergate, advised Mrs M not to transfer her pension benefits into a
personal pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
The investment return needed to match Mrs Ms DB schemes benefits was relatively
high and as such was out of line with her stated attitude to risk;
There were no compelling reasons given Mrs Ms circumstances to recommend she
transfer her pension;
The generally superior security of a DB scheme met Mrs Ms high priority to provide
security of her pension fund; and
The death benefits available before retirement through the DB scheme met Mrs Ms
priority to provide a spouse or dependants pension on her death.
On 20 February 2008 Mrs M sent Towergate a typed letter, which said that while she had
read and understood the suitability report and that transferring her pension was against the
advice shed received, she nevertheless wanted to go ahead and transfer her DB pension
into a personal pension. She also said that she wanted to take the taxable cash lump sum
(representing the enhancement to the transfer value.)
On the same day Towergate produced a second suitability report. The report repeated the
reasons why Mrs M should not transfer her pension. But it went on to say that because she
had insisted upon transferring, its recommended solution was to transfer to a personal
pension, which would provide investment choice, flexibility and competitive charges.
In 2019 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) instructed Towergate to carry out a review of
some its past pension transfer review business, which Mrs M chose to be included in.
On 3 July 2020 Towergate wrote to Mrs M to say that its review of the advice she was given
showed that she was told not to transfer her DB pension but that she knowingly acted
against that advice. It said it wouldnt therefore be offering any redress.
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and
required Towergate to pay compensation. In summary they said they didnt think Mrs M was
a true insistent client and that her objectives werent properly considered by looking at
possible alternatives to transferring.
Towergate disagreed. In summary it said the investigators assessment contradicted the
review work it carried out under the supervision of the FCA and went against a number
of decisions the Financial Ombudsman Service had issued on similar cases. It said that the
investigator conclusions were irrational - Mrs M knew she was acting against the advice she
was given because she was issued with two suitability reports. It said that it is concerned the
investigator had applied modern day regulatory standards in their assessment, which didnt
exist at the time of the advice  specifically the point they made about not exploring
alternative courses of action with Mrs M.
And finally it offered some broader context referring to the fact-find completed for Mrs Ms
husband who received advice at the same time, which showed that jointly they had a
material income deficit and around £30,000 in outstanding loans and the objective was to
clear the debt.
I issued my provisional decision of May 2022. I said here that having considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of the complaint, I was likely to reach the same overall conclusion as the investigator and 
uphold the complaint  but in the interest of fairness I wanted to expand on my reasoning. In 
my provisional decision I said my reasons were as follows:
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it
is unsuitable. So, Towergate should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
A key aspect in this case is Towergates categorisation of Mrs M as an insistent client - this
is a client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients. But there were COBS rules in the regulators Handbook, which required
Towergate to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of
its client. In addition, COBS required Towergate to provide information that was clear, fair
and not misleading. So, Towergates recommendation had to be clear and Mrs M had to
have understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
In its first suitability report, Towergate recommended that Mrs M should not transfer away
from her DB scheme. It said this was because the critical yield or investment return needed
to match the benefits of her existing scheme was too high in light of her attitude to risk. It
said an alternative arrangement was unlikely to produce better benefits and that it hadnt
identified a compelling reason to transfer. Towergate warned Mrs M that she would be worse
off in retirement if she transferred.
In its second suitability report, Towergate repeated its warnings that the pension transfer
was unsuitable for Mrs M. The report then said that Mrs M had decided she wanted to go
ahead in any event on an insistent client basis. It went on to recommend an alternative
solution that provided flexible retirement benefits with an investment fund choice which
appears to have been appropriate for Mrs Ms risk profile.
This would suggest that Towergate provided two suitable recommendations to Mrs M.But Mrs M says that she was coerced into transferring with promises of better returns. She
says that she was led by the hand throughout the process of accessing the cash incentive,
to the point of being given the wording to use for the instruction letter to insist it went ahead.
She says she did not understand what she was doing.
Having considered all of the evidence presented, while Towergates initial communication
with Mrs M did set out that its recommendation for her was not to proceed with the transfer, I
think there were weaknesses and failings in the advice process, which meant Towergate
didnt act in Mrs Ms best interests. And I think Mrs M likely understood or believed overall
that Towergate was recommending she should go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because in the first suitability report immediately underneath the summary of why
Towergate recommended Mrs M should not transfer away from her DB scheme, it said that
she could go about doing it regardless, by effecting her right to transfer on an insistent client
basis. And while it said this would be against Towergates advice, it explained what Mrs M
needed to do, including writing a letter saying why she wanted to pursue this option. Also,
when setting out Mrs Ms options, the first and second options presented to her involved her
transferring her benefits out of the DB scheme, with the third option being to remain in the
scheme.
I think if Towergate firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in
Mrs Ms best interests, it wouldnt have told Mrs M at the same time as delivering its
recommendation how she could put it aside and bypass it. I think the wording and the
emphasis placed on how Mrs M could ignore Towergates recommendation was unfair to
Mrs M and wasnt in her best interest.
I dont think it was in Mrs Ms best interest to go against Towergates recommendation  yet
Towergate made it very easy for her to do so. I also think that, given the context and the
emphasis placed on this Mrs M could have interpreted this overall that Towergate was
recommending she go ahead and transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Towergate that Mrs M had little knowledge or
experience of financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. I
say this because theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find, which
suggests Mrs M was an experienced investor. Im mindful too that Towergate assessed Mrs
Ms attitude to risk as balanced, which according to its own definition described someone
who may view their investment experience as limited and is only moderately confident in
relying on that experience to help make future decisions. And I think this shouldve put
Towergate on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent
client route.
Mrs M says that the wording for the insistent client letter she signed was provided by
Towergate and she didnt really know what she was doing. Looking at the letter I think its
likely it was templated. Not only is some of the language used quite formal and business like,
I can also see that Towergate has provided an identically worded letter signed by Mrs Ms
husband who Towergate says jointly received advice at the same time. 
While I acknowledge it wasnt a requirement at the time, given Mrs Ms level of experience, I 
think it wouldve been important for Towergate to ensure she understood what she was 
getting into. And a good way to have done this wouldve been to see in her own words that 
she understood the recommendation being made and importantly why she wanted to 
proceed. Because I have doubts that these were her own words, Im not persuaded Mrs M 
was able to make an informed choice here. And I think the lack of explanation from Mrs M about why she wanted to proceed ought to have given Towergate reason to ask her further 
questions.
Instead, Towergate produced a second suitability report, which I believe muddied the waters
further. Despite repeating the recommendation not to transfer out of the DB scheme, it then
proceeded to give a positive recommendation, advising Mrs M to transfer her benefits to a
personal pension and invest it in a balanced lifestyle fund.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Towergate needed to give
Mrs M advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged - that is the transfer and
the choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mrs M advice on the question of
whether to transfer, and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the
second suitability report after securing Mrs Ms confirmation to proceed on an insistent client
basis.
So, by recommending that Mrs M transfer her benefits to a particular scheme, I think it
effectively recommended that she transfer out of her DB scheme. If Towergate didnt think
that transferring out of the DB scheme to a personal pension was in Mrs Ms best interests, it
needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable
for her. It couldnt separate out the elements. For this reason, I think that on receipt of the
second suitability report Mrs M likely believed Towergate was recommending she transfer
out of the DB scheme, and it was reasonable for her to do so.
Nevertheless, Towergate has said there is some wider context to consider in this case. It
says Mrs M was advised at the same time as her husband and that her decision to transfer
was based on the financial situation as recorded on her husbands fact-find. It says this
recorded a household income deficit over expenditure and that there was around £30,000 of
outstanding loans. It says the income deficit was explained by Mrs M as being due to her
pending employment change, which was due to take place around seven months later.
So, it says Mrs M wanted to transfer out of the DB scheme so that she could use the
additional lump sum to pay down some of these debts. On the one hand Im mindful that this 
is a complaint about the advice Mrs M received and not another party. The documentation 
provided in relation to the advice Mrs M received paints a very different financial picture  
the fact-find records a surplus income and no debts. But I can also see that Mrs M has said 
in the course of her complaint that the loans were manageable - so it appears there were 
debts; albeit I dont know in what name or names they were held.
But if Towergate knew or understood this was the true position and it was Mrs Ms objective
to secure funds to clear the debt, then I think this ought to have been documented in her
advice paperwork. In acting in Mrs Ms best interests I think Towergate should have
gathered more information about the debts to better understand the position  if only to
suggest that if there was financial pressure Mrs M should seek further advice and guidance
from the lenders before continuing to facilitate an irreversible transaction to transfer her
pension. I say this particularly in the context of Towergate appearing to have understood that
Mrs Ms financial situation would change in the relative short term.
I can see that Towergate says suggesting it should have discussed alternatives is applying
modern-day standards  there were no specific rules around insistent clients at the time of
the advice. And as Ive said above, I acknowledge there were no specific insistent client
rules at the time. But I consider the rules that were in place at the time were clear that
Towergate had to act with due care and skill and in Mrs Ms best interests. And by not
seeking to fully understand Mrs Ms objectives or to clearly communicate that there might beother things she could consider before carrying things out, Im not persuaded this was acting
in Mrs Ms best interest. Ultimately, I dont think she was able to make an informed choice
here  it seems to me that Mrs M most likely went ahead with the transfer as she believed
this was the only way to meet her objectives. And because Towergate actually gave her a
positive recommendation to transfer out of the scheme in the second suitability report.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to
conclude the process Towergate followed meant that Mrs M can truly be regarded as an
insistent client. Towergates communications overall werent clear or fair. It didnt act in Mrs
Ms best interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
If Towergate had acted reasonably, providing a recommendation on the suitability of the
whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, and addressing Mrs Ms objective to use
the available funds to clear some debts in detail, I dont think Mrs M wouldve insisted on
going ahead with the transfer. As Ive outlined above, I dont consider Mrs M was an
experienced investor such that she possessed the knowledge or had the confidence to go
against the advice she was given. I think she relied on the advice and process Towergate
employed  so if things had happened as they should have Im not persuaded Mrs M would
have insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
For completeness, Towergate also objected to the investigators view on the basis that our
service had issued decisions in its favour, thereby accepting that it employed a fair insistent
client process. It added that the regulator had also reviewed its processes and also did not
find any flaws.
Ive taken this on board - but each case is considered on its own merits and Ive explained in
detail why I currently think in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint it
should be upheld.
To put things right, I said I intended to direct Towergate to undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
In response to my provisional decision, both Mrs M and Towergate said they had nothing 
further to add.
While Im mindful that both parties have ostensibly accepted my provisional decision, for the 
sake of completeness Im issuing a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, given that neither Mrs M nor Towergate has provided anything new for me 
to consider in response to my provisional decision, Ive no reason to change my conclusions. 
So for this reason and the reasons set out in my provisional decision which I have detailed 
above, I uphold this complaint and direct Towergate to put things right.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs M, as far as possible,
into the position she would now be in but for Towergates unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs
M would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given and
the correct process followed.
I direct Towergate to undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension
transfers.
I understand Mrs M retired at 60 taking benefits in January 2021 - so this should be the basis
for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of my decision. In accordance with
the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Ms acceptance of the decision.
Towergate may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs
Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ms SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mrs Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mrs M within 90 days of the date Towergate receives
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Towergate to pay Mrs
M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that thebusiness pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and direct Towergate
Financial (West) Limited to pay Mrs M the compensation amount as set out in the steps
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Towergate Financial (West) Limited to pay Mrs M any interest on that amount in full, as set
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Towergate
Financial (West) Limited to pay Mrs M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Towergate Financial (West) Limited pays Mrs M the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs M.
If Mrs M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Towergate
Financial (West) Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs M could accept my
final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs M may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman