DRN-3325747
The complaint
B complains that the exchange rate quoted by HSBC UK Bank Plc differed drastically to the 
rate, which was actually applied, resulting in financial loss for it.
What happened
On 25 June 2020, one of Bs officers contacted HSBC to advise that it was expecting more 
than $40,000 into Bs business account and requested the exchange rate. The officer had 
received a quote from another organisation of £38,137.85 but HSBC quoted B £39,209.43 
with a maximum charge of £11.
The transfer was made the next day, but B only received £37,519.50 after conversion. B 
accepts that the rate it was quoted was indicative, but Bs officer feels like the difference is 
too steep. Bs officer is also unhappy that HSBC ignored his emails asking it to reconsider its 
position in the final response letter it issued to B.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that when Bs 
officer spoke to HSBC its agent made it clear the exchange rate for the funds expected into 
Bs account was indicative. The agent also read to Bs officer HSBCs statement regarding 
quotes for foreign exchange transactions which advised that the actual rate used will be 
applied when the payment is made. So, although Bs officer expected the fluctuation to be 
slight, the investigator didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly as it explained the rate was 
indicative. She thought HSBC acted in line with its terms and conditions when it received the 
payment and applied the HSBC exchange rate at that time.
She understood Bs officers frustration that HSBC didnt reconsider its position and reply to 
him after issuing the final response letter. However, she noted HSBC correctly included 
referral rights to our service for B, so she didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
B asked for an ombudsmans decision. Its officer asked: How many transactions go through 
with a higher payment than a previous indicative quote? The officer wonders  as you dont 
know how much youll get until after the transaction completes does the bank quote high and 
deliver low? He also wants to know if the rate given to B was consistent with its declared rate 
on the day.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 18 January 2022. In it I said:
I understand Bs officers frustration. But equally, Ive seen that HSBC made clear that the 
exchange rate here was only ever indicative. So, what I have to consider is whether HSBC 
has shown that it acted fairly in carrying out the transaction and in line with what its rate was 
at the time in question.
HSBC has explained that this transaction was subject to its usual calculations in terms of 
what the rate was and applying that to the transaction. That being the case, I think its fair 
and reasonable to be able to show that this is the case to B and to this service in a way 
thats clear and easy to understand.
As things stand, HSBC has explained the range of figures that made up for the highest and 
lowest rate available on the day of the transaction. Then HSBC has explained the rate which 
it says was applied. But, from what Ive seen that rate isnt within the range of rates given on 
that day. To add to the confusion, HSBC also quoted a rate for the exchange the day before 
the actual transaction took place and from the evidence, I cant see how HSBC arrived at the 
figure given in this quote either, given what it has said.
So, I asked HSBC to provide more information about the exchange rate fluctuations on the 
relevant two days. I asked it to provide this information in a form that was accessible to a lay 
person so that Bs officer could understand more about what had happened. Despite 
repeated chasing, HSBC has not provided the evidence I have requested. It did supply some 
evidence about the exchange rate available on the relevant dates, but this evidence doesnt 
clearly show how the exchange rate was calculated here or persuade me that what HSBC 
did was correct. Nor does it appear to be compatible with the rate quoted in the final 
response letter.
Given all the above I am not satisfied that HSBC has treated B fairly. I recognise that HSBC 
says that it followed its usual processes here  but I have to look at the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, HSBC hasnt been able clearly to show me 
that it applied the exchange rate correctly here.
So unless it provides the information I have requested before I write the final decision, I think 
it would be reasonable for HSBC to pay B the difference between the figure it quoted to Bs 
officer and the figure B received (so £1,689.93). Given that B was given one figure, which it 
says it acted on, yet received a rate that HSBC hasnt shown was correctly calculated  I 
think this represents a fair outcome in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC did not respond. B has accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has asked me to consider anything new, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision and confirm it here now.
Putting things right
To put things right I think HSBC should pay B £1,689.93.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay B £1,689.93.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 Nicola Wood
Ombudsman