DRN-2374157
The complaint
Miss B complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance, wrongly allowed her to borrow money she couldnt afford to repay. She borrowed 
the money to buy a static caravan, and has also raised concerns over problems with the 
caravan and what the salesperson told her about the purchase.
What happened
In early 2019 Miss B entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander Consumer 
Finance. The purpose of the finance was to fund the purchase of a static caravan, which 
Miss B had decided to buy following a discussion with a sales representative at a holiday 
park.
After a few months Miss B became concerned over problems with the caravan. She 
contacted Santander Consumer Finance to say the caravan was cold and damp, with mould 
spores developing and leading to respiratory and other physical difficulties. Miss B says at 
the time she entered into the agreement she was homeless and not working, but that the 
representative told her to provide details of her previous employment. Miss B adds that the 
representative also misinformed her about site fees, and that she felt under pressure to sign 
the credit agreement.
Santander Consumer Finance has since permitted Miss B to exercise her right to terminate 
the credit agreement early. However, it has sought from her repayment of an outstanding 
balance  around £6,500.
Santander Consumer Finance doesnt accept that it acted wrongly in approving the lending 
to Miss B. Its position is that it lent on the basis of information Miss B provided about her 
employment and income, and that it undertook appropriate affordability checks before 
agreeing to lend. It says Miss B signed to confirm she was happy with what shed been told 
at point of sale and with the state of the caravan, and that she was given ample time to 
withdraw from the purchase if she so wished.
Our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to indicate Santander Consumer 
Finance was responsible for the problems with condition of the caravan. However, she 
wasnt satisfied that Santander Consumer Finance did enough in terms of an affordability 
assessment to ensure the lending was appropriate or sustainable. The investigator further 
considered that if reasonable and proportionate checks had been undertaken, these would 
have shown that Miss B could not afford the credit it provided to her.
The investigator recommended that Santander Consumer Finance refund  with interest  
Miss Bs deposit along with the money Miss B paid under the credit agreement, less an 
amount of £2,860 that she considered a fair reflection of the use Miss B had of the caravan. 
The investigator didnt think it right that Miss B should be required to pay any further money 
under the credit agreement, so proposed waiving the remaining balance. She also thought it 
unfair for any negative information to be shown on Miss Bs credit file in relation to the credit 
agreement, and recommended this be removed.
Santander Consumer Finance didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It maintained 
its previous arguments, saying that Miss B had passed credit scoring checks with a good 
credit history, and had provided a bank statement in support of her ability to afford the 
borrowing. She had also signed a declaration confirming  among other things  that she 
could afford the borrowing without undue difficulty. So Santander Consumer Finance asked 
for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator noted, Santander Consumer Finance had certain regulatory obligations it 
needed to comply with in assessing Miss Bs creditworthiness. Those obligations are set out 
in part 5.2A of the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that forms part of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. Santander Consumer Finance is no doubt familiar with 
those provisions, so I dont propose to reproduce them in full here.
In summary, in undertaking a creditworthiness assessment the lender needs to establish the 
customers propensity and ability to make the payments under the credit agreement. That 
includes assessing whether the repayments will have a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation over the term of the agreement. The assessment doesnt need 
to be exhaustive, but it does have to be proportionate to the individual circumstances in each 
case. Bearing these obligations in mind Ive reviewed the factors Santander Consumer 
Finance says it took into account when deciding to lend to Miss B.
Having done so, Im satisfied Santander Consumer Finance made appropriate assessment 
of the risk Miss B wouldnt make repayments on time. It has explained the checks it 
performed and the information it established in relation to Miss Bs credit history and current 
level of credit debt. I dont think that information ought to have led Santander Consumer 
Finance to conclude it shouldnt lend to Miss B.
But assessing the risk of whether someone will make repayments by the due date isnt the 
only part of a creditworthiness check. There is the affordability risk to take into account; that 
is, the risk to the customer that they will be unable to make repayments. In this respect, 
Santander Consumer Finance seems to me to have relied on rather less information. It has 
said it obtained a bank statement, and that it accepted what Miss B told it about her 
employment status and income.
In my view, that is unlikely to be enough to be a proportionate assessment in the 
circumstances of Miss Bs application. The sole bank statement Santander Consumer 
Finance said it took into account didnt substantiate what Miss B told it about her 
employment, or contain any salary payments that might serve to support her stated income. 
Indeed, I think a prudent lender, lending responsibly, would have been put on notice by the 
bank statement in question that it could not simply rely on the content as evidence of Miss 
Bs ability to afford the borrowing.
Guidance in CONC 5.2A.16(3) says that
For the purpose of considering the customers income under CONC 5.2A.15R, it is 
not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information 
supplied by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by 
the third party or by the customer). The bank statement Santander Consumer Finance accepted didnt contain information 
relating to Miss Bs stated income. And it doesnt appear this information was obtained via 
the credit reference checks Santander Consumer Finance did undertake. Given Santander 
Consumer Finance used the income figure it did, I can only reasonably conclude that it relied 
solely on what Miss B told it about her income. As the guidance says, thats not generally 
sufficient, and I see no reason to make an exception in this case.
When considering the matter of affordability, in addition to income there is also the question 
of expenditure. Even if Miss B was able to demonstrate her income at the stated level, there 
doesnt seem to have been much in the way of assessment of her outgoings other than that 
she carried a low level of existing credit. But the overall financial commitment Miss B was 
entering into in purchasing the static caravan included not just the monthly credit repayments 
of £363. For example, she was also obliged  after an introductory period  to pay annual 
site fees of over £4,600, or a little under £400 per month.
Those figures combined come to nearly half Miss Bs monthly net income. Yet this doesnt 
appear to have prompted Santander Consumer Finance to undertake a more rigorous 
assessment of Miss Bs other outgoings. And that suggests to me Santander Consumer 
Finance didnt make a reasonable assessment of whether the repayments would have a 
significant adverse impact on Miss Bs financial situation over the term of the agreement. 
While I note Santander Consumer Finance has sought to make the point that Miss B signed 
a declaration on affordability, I dont accept that has a bearing on whether it ought to have 
met its regulatory obligations.
Like our investigator, Im satisfied that if Santander Consumer Finance had made a 
reasonable creditworthiness assessment, it wouldnt have approved her application. It 
follows that she wouldnt have paid out the money she has in relation to the purchase of the 
static caravan. So she should get this money back, less a deduction for her use of the 
caravan. It also stands to reason she shouldnt have to pay out any more money towards the 
loan. So the investigators redress proposal seems to me to be a fair way of resolving 
matters.
Of course, I recognise that if she hadnt been lent the money, Miss B wouldnt have 
experienced the problems shes highlighted with the caravan. But I dont think theres 
enough evidence to say the caravan was defective at point of supply, such that it might 
make Santander Consumer Finance liable to pay her additional compensation for her 
personal health.
There are other possible explanations for the problems shes cited that could be the cause of 
the damp and mould; it doesnt necessarily follow that it was due to quality defects in the 
caravans construction. I think if Miss B was looking to pursue that aspect of her claim 
further, shed need to do more to demonstrate fault. So I make no further award or direction 
in this respect.
My final decision
My final decision, therefore, is that I am upholding Miss Bs complaint. To resolve it, 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must, within 28 days of Miss Bs acceptance of my decision, 
take the following steps:
1. Ensure the credit agreement has been terminated and that Miss B has nothing 
further to pay in relation to it
2. Remove any missed payment information recorded in relation to the credit 
agreement from Miss Bs credit file, and report the account as fully settled effective 
from the date the agreement was terminated3. Refund the £2,000 deposit Miss B paid for the static caravan
4. Calculate the total Miss B has repaid under the credit agreement. Deduct £286 per 
month (subject to an overall deduction of £2,860) as an assessment of fair usage and 
refund the difference to Miss B
5. pay Miss B 8% simple interest per year on the amounts in 3. and 4. from the date she 
made each payment until the date it pays this settlement.
If Santander deducts tax from any part of this award, it should inform Miss B that it has done 
so, specify the amount it has deducted and provide her with a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, to allow her to reclaim the tax from Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) 
if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman