DRN-3320420
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) applied a default against his bank account. 
He says they didnt attempt to contact him to discuss this.   
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties. So, I wont go into much detail 
about the background but will summarise the key points leading to Mr As complaint. Mr A 
closed his bank account with Monzo but, prior to this, a transaction took place which Mr A 
disputed so he received a refund from Monzo as well as the retailer. This meant Mr A was 
refunded twice. Monzo then claimed their refund back but this placed Mr As account in 
overdraft. As Mr A didnt repay the overdraft, they defaulted the account. 
Mr A complained to Monzo and they said they had given Mr A notice of the overdraft and the 
need to repay this. They said, despite emails and messages being sent to Mr A, the 
overdraft wasnt repaid so they defaulted the account.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. She thought Monzo hadnt acted unfairly in 
defaulting the account. Mr A disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr A will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Its important that financial businesses report accurate factual information about customers 
to Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Guidelines issued by the Information 
Commissioners Office state that any data reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, 
complete and up to date. Ive looked at Monzos website and note the Privacy Policy 
explains that they share information with CRAs. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Monzo to share information with the CRAs. 
The next point Ive considered is whether the information shared was accurate. Monzo have 
provided Mr As bank statements. This shows a transaction going out for the sum of £95.36. 
Monzo say they then refunded this on the basis Mr A said it was an unrecognised 
transaction and the retailer then also refunded the same amount  Mr As bank statements 
show Monzo refunded this in April 2020 and the retailer refunded it in May. 
Mr As account was then closed on 3 June with the account being brought to a zero balance. 
Monzo then sent a message on 11 June to Mr A saying hed received two refunds for a 
payment made to a retailer. Monzo said this means they would need to take back the refund 
they gave. They said, to give Mr A some time to plan for this, they would be taking the 
£95.36 in two weeks. The message says Please make sure you have enough money in 
your account to cover this. If you dont, youll end up overdrawn, whether you have an 
arranged overdraft or not. 
I note Mr A says he didnt receive any communication from Monzo, but this message was 
sent through the in-app chat, and Monzo have provided evidence which shows that Mr A still 
had access to this as he used this facility to message Monzo on 20 June, 1 and 3 July. The 
refund was then taken back on 28 August and this brought Mr As account into overdraft. 
Monzo say, this is later than the two-week timescale they set out in their message as this 
provided additional time for Mr A to make arrangements for the payment. 
Monzo have provided information which shows that a chaser email was sent in August and 
three in September to inform Mr A about the status of his account overdraft and to remind 
him to contact them to settle it. Having not heard back, Monzo sent a Notice of Default on 28 
September to say, as Mr As account remains overdrawn, theyll soon be reporting it as 
being in default. They explain what a default is and the impact it will have. They say, You 
can avoid this happening if you get in touch before 28 October 2020 and make a plan to 
repay what you owe. They say Mr A doesnt need to repay it all in one go and they can look 
at repayment plans with him to make the repayment easier for him to manage. Having not 
heard back, Monzo then defaulted the account and sent confirmation of this to Mr A. Mr A 
then cleared the overdraft in November 2021. I note Mr A says he didnt receive any 
communication from Monzo, but theyve provided evidence which shows the email address 
they used was the same one which Mr A had sent emails from to them in relation to a 
separate Monzo account and he had contacted them as recently as November 2021 using 
the same email address.    
Taking this all into account, I think Monzo have provided accurate information to the CRAs. I 
do understand Mr As frustrations here and I also note his concern about the impact the 
default has had on his reputation. But, I cant ask Monzo to put things right if theres no 
evidence of an error on their part. The information shows Monzo did inform Mr A of the 
overdraft and the amount to be repaid, then allowed him opportunities to repay it, and also 
sent a Notice of Default allowing a further period to get in contact to avoid the account being 
defaulted. So, I dont think Monzo have acted unreasonably in the report made to the CRAs 
and I dont think theyve acted unfairly in refusing to remove the default.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman