DRN-3663850
The complaint
Mr S complains that The New India Assurance Company Limited (New India) caused his 
new insurer to cancel his policy because it recorded an accident claim he wasnt involved in, 
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with New India. In July 2021 a third-party insurer 
contacted it to advise a claim was being made against Mr Ss policy. New India contacted Mr 
S to let him know. He explained that he knew nothing about the alleged accident. 
New India responded to the third-party insurer in August 2021 to confirm Mr S wasnt 
involved in the accident. Mr S changed insurers as he wasnt happy that his premium had 
increased. His new insurer subsequently cancelled the policy in November 2021  when it 
became aware there was an open claim that hadnt been disclosed to it. 
Mr S contacted New India in November 2021 to say he hadnt been involved in an accident 
and a claim shouldnt show on his record. New India arranged for his car to be inspected by 
an engineer, who concluded there was no evidence of accident damage or a recent repair. 
The engineers report was sent to the third-party insurer toward the end of November. 
At the beginning of January 2022 Mr S contacted New India again as the claim was still 
showing on his record. It told him it had requested that the claim to be removed from the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). But it was reliant on the third-party insurer 
confirming the claim had been closed before doing this.
Mr S didnt think New India had treated him fairly, so he complained to the business. It didnt 
think it had done anything wrong  so Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator upheld his complaint. She didnt think New India had handled the claim issue in 
a timely manner and that it couldve taken action to ensure the claim was removed from the 
CUE earlier. Our investigator thought New India should pay £150 compensation to Mr S.   
Mr S didnt agree and asked for £1,500 compensation. He says he was without a car for 
months, which cost him more money. He objects to the false claim accusation and says he 
was banned from using his car as he couldnt get insured and was put on an insurance 
blacklist. As he didnt agree with our investigator Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him 
but Ill explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see that the third-party insurer wrote to New India in July 2021 to inform it of an 
accident it believed Mr S had been involved in. The accident had taken place in February. A 
few days later New India contacted Mr S. In its letter it says it couldnt get through to him by 
phone but needed to speak to him about allegations made against his policy. From New 
Indias records Mr S called back around a week later to explain he wasnt in the area where 
the claim occurred and there is no damage to his car. 
The records show New India emailed the third-party insurer to confirm Mr S wasnt involved 
in the accident. Albeit I note this wasnt done for almost a month. Mr S called New India 
again in November 2021. I can see it was agreed that a physical inspection of his car would 
be performed so New India could defend its position with the third-party insurer.
The inspection took place six days later. Ive read the engineers report which states there 
are no signs of damage to the front of the vehicle, no signs of recent repairs and, 
alignments are all good. New Indias records show this report was forwarded to the third-
party insurer six days after the inspection was performed. Mr S also called on this day asking 
for a letter confirming the claim had been settled. New India advised it couldnt do this as the 
claim wasnt yet closed. 
I note that two days after this call New India contacted Mr S to advise it had spoken to the 
third-party insurer and it had confirmed its file was closed. New India told Mr S it would look 
to close its file. But from the records supplied New India didnt take action to remove the 
claim from the CUE database until 12 January 2022, which is after Mr S had made a 
complaint. 
Ive thought about whether New India treated Mr S fairly. New India is obligated to 
investigate any claim made against its policyholder. Im satisfied it had to investigate to 
establish whether there was a liability in this case. I think it took reasonable steps to inform 
Mr S and convey his response to the third-party insurer. The decision to appoint an engineer 
to inspect the car and share the report also seems reasonable. It was following this that the 
third-party insurer confirmed it had closed its file. 
But I dont think New India handled the matter in a timely manner. I say this because it took 
nearly a month to relay Mr Ss response to the third-party insurer. In addition, the records 
New India has provided say the third-party insurer informed it by 24 November 2021 that it 
had closed its claim file. Yet no action was taken by New India until January 2022 to amend 
the CUE records. I think New India should reasonably have amended the CUE records 
toward the end of November.     
I have thought about whether New India is at fault for Mr Ss new insurer cancelling his 
policy. But I dont think it was. He was aware that there was an ongoing claim when he 
applied for insurance and didnt disclose this information. I sympathise with Mr S that the 
situation with the claim wasnt of his making. But New India isnt responsible for the claim 
being made or that it had to be investigated before the CUE record could be updated. 
I havent seen evidence to support Mr Ss comments that he was banned from using his car 
due to not being able to get insured. Im not investigating the actions of Mr Ss new insurer in 
this complaint. But it was Mr Ss responsibility to disclose information relating to any claims. I 
understand that its because he didnt do this that his new insurer cancelled his policy. 
Mr S says he was put on an insurance blacklist. I think he is referring to the CUE database 
record of the claim. I accept that details of the ongoing claim were recorded but this wasnt 
something New India was responsible for. A change to the CUE records could only be made 
when the claim had been investigated. Having considered all of this I dont think New India treated Mr S fairly. This is because it 
delayed contacting the third-party insurer with Mr Ss response. It also delayed amending the 
CUE records, which I think shouldve been arranged in November 2021. I think its fair that 
New India pays Mr S £150 compensation to acknowledge the delay it caused in the record 
being amended. 
I havent seen cause to award £1,500 compensation. New India wasnt responsible for the 
new insurer cancelling its policy. Although Mr S will have had to declare the ongoing claim, I 
havent seen evidence that he wouldnt be able to obtain insurance had he done this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. The New India Assurance Company 
Limited should:
pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman