DRN-3112393
The complaint
Miss S complains about the support she received from AutoMoney Limited (AutoMoney), 
with respect to her hire purchase agreement, when she found herself in financial difficulties.  
What happened
In May 2017, Miss S entered into a hire purchase agreement with AutoMoney to acquire a 
used car. The total amount payable was approximately £10,826. Miss S provided an 
advance payment of £598. She was required to pay the balance by one instalment of 
approximately £259 followed by 46 instalments of around £210 followed by a final instalment 
of around £309 (which included the Option to Purchase Fee). 
On 23 March 2020, the UK Government announced the UK would enter into a lockdown due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. Miss S was unable to work due to the impact caused by the 
pandemic. As such, in April 2020 she contacted AutoMoney seeking assistance. AutoMoney 
agreed to grant Miss S a payment holiday which was done on a monthly basis, and this 
eventually came to an end in September 2020. On 7 September 2020, Miss S wrote to 
AutoMoney and said that she can pay £100 a month. The same day AutoMoney responded, 
and said that as her instalment was £210, she would need to complete a budget planner so 
they can review whether they can agree to a reduced payment.
On 10 September 2020, AutoMoney received a notification that the registered keeper of the 
car had been changed. Miss S said that her sister was using the car and paying the monthly 
amount to Miss S with the intention of Miss S passing the money to AutoMoney. Miss S said 
that she had changed the registered keepers name on the V5 certificate into her sisters 
name so that the sister could insure the car in her name.
On 18 September 2020, AutoMoney told Miss S, during a call with her, that she needed to 
remain the registered keeper of the car so the name on the V5 document needed changing 
back to her name. The AutoMoney adviser explained that, while the finance agreement is in 
place, Miss S needs to remain the registered owner of the car. At that point, Miss S asked 
how much she still owed on the finance agreement, and the adviser gave her a settlement 
figure of around £2,753. On 21 September 2020, Miss S emailed AutoMoney to confirm 
again how much see needed to pay. AutoMoney wrote back to Miss S, advising that she will 
need to bring the account up to date by paying the arrears of approximately £442 and asked 
her to put the car back into her name. They also wrote to her the next day explaining that the 
terms of the agreement had been broken, which they said allowed them to request full 
payment for the car. But in this correspondence, they said that they are only asking for the 
arrears to be paid and for the car to be put back into Miss Ss name. On 23 September 2020, 
Miss S informed AutoMoney that she will be paying the full settlement figure as quoted by 
the AutoMoney agent on 18 September 2020. On 24 September 2020, Miss S informed 
AutoMoney that she had paid the settlement figure, and on 25 September 2020, they 
confirmed that the account had been settled. 
Miss S was unhappy with the way she was treated by AutoMoney, which she said had a 
negative affected on her health, so she raised a complaint with them. 
On 13 October 2020, AutoMoney wrote to Miss S. In this correspondence they explained 
that the terms of the finance agreement said that she needed to keep the car safely at her 
address and that she may not sell, part with the possession of it, or transfer her rights under 
the terms of the agreement. They explained that as her sister was making the monthly 
repayments and using the car, the conditions of the finance agreement were broken. 
AutoMoney explained that in this situation the terms and conditions of Miss Ss finance 
agreement allowed them to repossess the car, or the total amount of the outstanding 
balance can become payable. The correspondence also explained that they were not 
upholding her complaint because their customer support team tried to come to a suitable 
agreement with her. AutoMoney said that in an attempt to assist Miss S they offered for her 
to pay the arrears and return the car into her name, instead of continuing with repossession 
of the car or seeking full settlement. 
Miss S was unhappy with AutoMoneys explanation and actions, so she brought her 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She was of the opinion that 
AutoMoney initially assisted Miss S when she was in financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, but she said that Miss S still had an obligation to stay within the terms and 
conditions of the finance agreement. And, as the car was transferred into her sisters name, 
she was not persuaded that AutoMoney acted unfairly. 
Miss S disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Miss S acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
Miss Ss main complaint point is that she was not treated fairly when, by written 
correspondence and during telephone conversations, she was told that she had broken her 
agreement terms and conditions. She feels it was unfair that she was asked to settle her 
account in full within a very short period, as otherwise her car would be repossessed. Miss S 
also feels that AutoMoneys agent on the phone was rude and abrupt, and didnt provide her 
with enough empathy due to the financial and health situation she found herself in. She is 
unhappy that she was only provided a few days to settle the agreement or to transfer the car 
back into her name. She said the first option of coming up with the settlement figure was 
difficult to do, as she was in financial hardship. She said that she couldnt transfer the car back into her name as her sister wouldnt be able to have insurance on the car. And she said 
this had a negative impact on her health.  
So, Ive taken the above into consideration when thinking about whether AutoMoney have 
done enough to support Miss S, when she told them that she was experiencing financial 
hardship. When doing so, Ive also thought about the relevant rules and guidance at the 
time. The rules and guidance mentioned below referrer to customers and consumers, and 
I will be using these words interchangeably, but in this decision the words are to have the 
same meaning.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and in 
particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession), say that 
firms should treat consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. Treating consumers with forbearance would include such things as 
considering suspending, reducing, waiving, or cancelling any further interest or charges, 
allowing deferment of payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a reasonable 
period of time.
On 24 April 2020 the FCA also published additional guidance  Motor finance agreements 
and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This guidance introduced temporary 
measures for consumers whose finances had been impacted by Covid-19, and it builds on 
Principle 6: (A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly).
In relation to the payment deferrals,  the guidance states the following: Where a customer is 
already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary payment difficulties as 
a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment deferral, 
a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for three months unless the firm 
determines (acting reasonably) that its obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
And it states that: In determining whether a three month payment deferral is obviously not in 
customers interests, firms should consider both customers need for immediate temporary 
support and the longer-term effects of a payment deferral on the customers situation, in 
particular the customers ability to repay any accrued interest once the payment deferral 
ends, and over what period. 
This guidance was further updated by the FCA in July 2020. This update was published a 
short period after Miss S first contacted AutoMoney, but I think its relevant to this case, as it 
builds on the previous guidance. The updated guidance states that: There is no expectation 
under this guidance that the firm makes enquiries with each customer to determine the 
circumstances surrounding a request for a payment deferral, or whether this is not in the 
customers interests. Firms can, however, choose to make the enquiries they consider 
necessary in order to satisfy themselves that the customer is eligible for support and to 
identify whether the customer would benefit from any additional support, provided that this 
does not delay the provision of timely support.
Taking the above guidance into consideration, I think it was fair that when in April 2020 
Miss S contacted AutoMoney seeking assistance, they agreed to grant her a payment 
deferral. This was done on a monthly basis, and this eventually came to an end in 
September 2020. So, Ive gone on to think about what happened after this period. 
On 7 September 2020, Miss S wrote to AutoMoney and said that she can pay £100 per 
month. The same day AutoMoney responded, and said that as her monthly instalment was 
£210, she would need to complete a budget planner so they can review whether they can 
agree to a reduced payment. So, I think at this point AutoMoney still wanted to work with 
Miss S and try to help her, however they could. And, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to want to perform an income and expenditure assessment, which would allow them to 
further assess her financial situation. So, I think at this moment in time they were treating her 
with forbearance and due consideration. But a few days later AutoMoney received a 
notification that the registered keeper of the car had been changed. Miss S said that her 
sister was using the car so she had changed the registered keepers name on the V5 
certificate into her sisters name, which would allow her sister to insure the car in her own 
name.
I know Miss S feels she was not treated fairly by the correspondence she received from 
AutoMoney, and during the calls she had with their agent when she was discussing the 
matter. But Miss Ss finance agreement with AutoMoney has a clause that says that she 
must keep the car at her address, and she may not sell or part with possession of it. She 
also cant transfer her rights under the agreement. The agreement also stipulated that, if this 
clause is not adhered to, AutoMoney has the right to end the agreement whereby all 
outstanding money on the agreement becomes payable. So, based on the contract Miss S 
had with AutoMoney, they were entitled to send her correspondence notifying her that she 
has breached the agreement, and they were entitled to start the car repossession 
proceedings. Ive also listened to the calls Miss S had with them on 18 September 2020, and 
during those calls the agent took the time to clearly explain how her contract worked and 
how she breached its terms when she transferred the car into her sisters name. So, based 
on this I cant say they treated her unfairly. 
Ive also considered the option AutoMoney gave to Miss S on 21 September 2020. The 
option of being able to, alternatively, put the car back into her name and bring the account 
up to date by allowing her to pay the arrears of around £442. Ive considered if, at the time, it 
wouldve been fair to ask Miss S to pay the arrears considering her deferral period had just 
ended, and she was still in financial hardship. Im not saying that AutoMoney have done 
anything wrong when they decided to start repossession of the car as the cars registered 
keeper had changed. But Ive questioned whether it was right for them to give this alternative 
option afterwards. The reason I questioned this is because Miss S was still experiencing 
financial hardship, so I questioned whether more shouldve been done to assess her 
financial situation to decide whether she still shouldve been treated with forbearance and 
due consideration when proposing such an alternative option. So, I dont think it was fair for 
AutoMoney to have insisted on the refund of the arrears without considering her 
circumstances, but I also dont think it made a difference to this case, as Miss S has not lost 
out because of this. I say this because Ive taken into consideration that this was most likely 
not an option Miss S wanted to undertake, as she said many times that she wanted her 
sister to have use of the car and for her sister to be the registered keeper, which considering 
the terms and conditions of the agreement, was not an option until the agreement was 
settled in full.
Overall, I sympathise with Miss S for the difficulties that she is experiencing but taking all of 
the circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Miss S has been treated 
unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman