DRN-3750458
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service received and decisions made by Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (Barclays) when he asked to end his 
conditional sale agreement early. 
What happened
Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Barclays in November 2016 for a 
second-hand caravan. 
Mr M complained to Barclays and, unhappy with their response he brought his complaint to 
this service. Our service considered Mr Ms complaint and issued a final decision in 
December 2021. 
Following this, Mr M contacted our service to raise a new complaint about poor service hed 
received when he was trying to determine how much he would owe when returning the 
caravan and ending the agreement early. Mr M was also unhappy that his account had been 
passed to a third party and reiterated that he wasnt happy with the park his caravan was at. 
The complaint was forwarded to Barclays to consider. 
Barclays sent Mr M their final response to his complaint in January 2022. They said the 
majority of the points were things already considered in our final decision in December 2021, 
and so they wouldnt address them again. They said the only thing outstanding was the 
complaint about the service Mr M had received when ending his agreement. Barclays said 
they couldnt retrieve the calls Mr M had with them, but they offered him £50 compensation 
as an apology. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr M asked this service to investigate. 
Our investigator gave his view that the figure provided to Mr M by Barclays was correct 
under the voluntary termination (VT) of his agreement and that it was processed fairly. He 
said the agreement allowed Barclays to transfer their rights to a third party, and he thought 
the £50 paid by Barclays was fair compensation for the poor service provided. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the figures in the agreement were wrong. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that Mr M has previously received a final decision from our service, 
which is the last stage in our process. And so, I wont be considering any of the points 
already addressed in that decision. That included, among other things, the make-up of and 
the figures used on the finance agreement. 
The remaining aspects of Mr Ms complaint are the amount he was asked to pay to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement, the service he received when trying to obtain this 
information, and that his account was transferred to a third party. 
Termination of the agreement
Mr M is unhappy with the amount he was asked to pay in order to terminate the agreement. 
This complaint stems mainly from the fact that Mr M doesnt believe the figures used in the 
finance agreement are correct. As this has already been subject to a final decision by this 
service, I wont be addressing it further. 
The agreement between Mr M and Barclays allows Mr M to end it early. The agreement sets 
out that in order to do this, Mr M will need to have paid half of the total amount payable 
under the agreement. 
Ive seen the statement of Mr Ms account showing the payments hed made toward the 
agreement, and the letter that Barclays sent to Mr M setting out what remained for him to 
pay in order to VT the agreement. Im satisfied that what Barclays asked Mr M to pay would 
take the total amount he paid up to 50% of the amount payable under the agreement. 
So, Im satisfied that Barclays have processed the VT in line with the terms of Mr Ms 
agreement. 
Transfer of the agreement to a third party
Mr M said he was unhappy that Barclays passed his account to a third party. 
Ive looked at the agreement between Mr M and Barclays, and it sets out that Barclays may 
transfer their rights to someone else, allowing them to take over managing the credit and 
collecting repayments. So, Im satisfied that the action Barclays took was in line with the 
terms of Mr Ms agreement and they were able to transfer it to a third party. 
Customer Service
Mr M said he was unable to get accurate information from Barclays about what he would 
have to pay if he ended the agreement early.
 
Barclays say theyve been unable to locate all the calls that Mr M has noted, but they 
accepted that hed likely received poor service, and so paid him £50 compensation. 
Ive listened to one call provided by Barclays, and it cuts off before the VT calculation is 
discussed, but Barclays have accepted that incorrect information was provided to Mr M, and 
so this isnt in dispute. 
I think Barclays couldve provided Mr M with clearer information sooner about the sum hed 
need to pay in order to VT the agreement. Whilst this incorrect information caused 
inconvenience to Mr M, Im satisfied that it didnt lead him to make a decision that he 
otherwise wouldnt have made. Settling the agreement in another way, such as through 
voluntary surrender or paying off the agreement, was likely to cost Mr M more. 
Mr M was put to distress and inconvenience in having to request an actuate VT figure on at 
least two occasions, and Barclays have paid him £50 compensation. All things considered; 
Im satisfied that this fairly compensates Mr M for the poor service he received. Mr M has raised concerns with the service of the third party that Barclays transferred his 
account to, and about actions taken by the park where his caravan was cited. Barclays are 
not responsible for these actions and so I wont be considering this further. Mr M may wish to 
raise a complaint directly with these parties if he remains dissatisfied. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman