DRN-3992039
The complaint
Miss J complains about the response she received from Retail Money Market Ltd trading as 
RateSetter (RateSetter) when she told it that two finance agreements she took out were 
unaffordable.
What happened
In June 2017 Miss J entered into a finance agreement with a third party limited company 
who I will call V. Subsequently RateSetter bought V.  Miss J borrowed £7,099 from V which 
was to be repaid over 48 months, the monthly payments were £306.19. 
Under the finance agreement with V, Miss J was also supplied with a car. The car was 
involved in an accident. An insurance payment was made which was used to settle the 
agreement in part, however there was a shortfall of £1,600 remaining. Moreover, Miss J 
required a new car. Therefore in January 2018 Miss J entered into a new finance agreement 
with a group of third party lenders who I will collectively call R. The shortfall was added to 
this new agreement and the 2017 agreement was fully settled. Miss J borrowed £10,320 
which was to be repaid over 36 months, the monthly payments were £444.80. Again under 
this agreement Miss J was supplied with both finance and a car.
RateSetter was not a lender in relation to the 2018 finance agreement. Rather it operated an 
electronic system in relation to lending which Miss J used to find a lender. In other words 
RateSetter provided an electronic platform to facilitate lending between Miss J and R under 
a peer-to peer agreement (P2P agreement). R is not a party to this complaint.
Miss J settled the 2018 finance in 2021. However, Miss J complains that both finance 
agreements were unaffordable, and she should never have been approved for the finance. 
In particular, she tells out that before she entered into each of the finance agreements she 
was struggling to make the repayments towards her pre-existing debts and also had County 
Court judgments against her for unpaid debts. Miss Js position is that that RateSetter ought 
to take responsibility for this unaffordable lending and therefore she wants all interest and 
charges to be refunded. Miss J complained to RateSetter.
RateSetter looked into Miss Js complaint. RateSetters position is that the appropriate 
checks were carried out and neither finance agreement was unaffordable. To support its 
stance RateSetter set out the checks that had been done prior to each decision to lend. In 
particular, it said, before the 2017 agreement it carried out a credit search. It also asked Miss 
J to supply details of her income and expenditure which it said it verified. It then used 
electronic means to calculate if the finance was affordable. RateSetter added:
When assessing any application, our underwriting team considers several factors including 
(but not limited to) Credit profile, credit history and affordability. Decisions are made based 
on information given in the application itself and obtained from various Credit Reference 
Agencies.
RateSetter indicated that Miss J had met its relevant internal criteria for the finance in 2017, 
that criteria ensured it met its regulatory obligations and it therefore did not agree that the 
finance was unaffordable.
As to the finance taken out in 2018, RateSetter said what it principally looked at when 
assessing Miss Js application on behalf of R, was affordability, Miss Js credit score and her 
past credit history. To assess these factors, amongst other things, it looked at the data Miss 
J provided in the application form and cross referenced it with data it held already and data 
from the credit reference agencies. RateSetter indicated its checks were proportionate and 
because of those checks it concluded correctly that Miss J could afford to borrow. 
It follows that RateSetters ultimate stance is that there are no proper grounds for it to be 
asked to refund any interest or charges in relation to either finance agreement. Therefore it 
declines Miss Js request and does not uphold her complaint.
Dissatisfied with RateSetters response Miss J complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Js complaint. Once our investigator completed 
their investigation they did not recommend that Miss Js complaint be upheld.
We have no record of receiving any response from RateSetter to our investigators 
recommendation, however Miss J rejected it. In summary, she reiterated her previous stance 
and laid particular emphasis on her payment history and on her other debts. Specifically, 
Miss J indicated that her payment history for both finance agreements showed she could not 
afford the finance. Further, she told us she prioritised paying this finance to such an extent 
that she was not able to make full payments towards her other debts. Miss J indicates that 
the knock-on impact of this is that she ultimately ended up with more County Court 
Judgments against her for these debts.
Miss J asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Miss J has indicates that she is concerned as she 
does not think all of the information she has sent us has been taken into account. She 
mentions in particular the information she sent in from February 2023 onwards. To put her 
mind at rest I confirm I have looked at all of this information.
Miss J and RateSetter disagree whether it acted appropriately in relation to the finance 
agreements. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it 
is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider 
is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances
RateSetter has acted in two separate capacities in this complaint. The first capacity is as a 
lender engaged in consumer credit lending in respect of the 2017 finance. I take on board 
that in reality at the time the lending was done by V not RateSetter. But in purchasing V 
RateSetter took over its responsibilities in respect of this finance. Therefore for ease of 
reading, I have written this decision as if RateSetter was always the lender in relation to this 
finance. The second capacity relates to the 2018 agreement, here RateSetter acted as a 
person operating an electronic system that facilitated persons becoming lenders and 
borrowers under P2P agreements. RateSetter had different responsibilities in each capacity 
so I will look at each agreement separately.
2017 FinanceWhen RateSetter lent to Miss J it was a regulated business providing regulated finance. That 
meant it had certain obligations to fulfil before it lent to her. Under the relevant regulations at 
that time, RateSetter was obliged to make sure that its lending was affordable and 
responsible. In particular, it was required to carry out checks that were proportionate in the 
circumstances, which might include considerations about the amount borrowed and Miss Js 
borrowing history. 
That said, exactly what a lender should consider was for each lender to decide, however, the 
rules listed a number of factors which a lender such as RateSetter might have wished to take 
into account. 
Further, RateSetter had to be able to demonstrate that it did enough to ensure that Miss J 
could repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on her 
financial situation. I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions 
are: 
 Did RateSetter complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss J 
would be able to repay the finance in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? 
 If not, would those checks have shown that Miss J wouldve been able to repay the finance 
in a sustainable way? 
 Did RateSetter act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
If I come to the conclusion that RateSetter didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss J and that she has lost out as a result, Ill go on to consider what is a fair way to put 
things right. 
As set out above, the regulatory framework required RateSetter to have carried out a 
proportionate assessment, based on sufficient information, of whether Miss J could afford to 
repay the loan with it in a sustainable manner. This affordability assessment needed to have 
sufficient checks to satisfy it that Miss J would be able to repay the finance sustainably, 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on Miss Js financial situation.
As I also mention above RateSetter told us about the checks it carried out. RateSetter 
indicated that, amongst other things, it had requested and reviewed information about Miss J 
from both Miss J directly and from credit references agencies, it looked at how her pre-
existing debt had been managed by her and also it took into account debt to income ratios 
based on the data it gathered. 
RateSetter tells us it asked Miss J to provide information about her income and expenditure 
and checked the information shed provided against her bank statement from a third party 
bank I will call H. Miss J does not appear to dispute that RateSetter did this. To counter what 
RateSetter has provided, Miss J has sent us new income and expenditure information for 
November 2017 and a bank statement from a third party bank I will call N. I note that the 
income she now says she had in November 2017 was substantially less than that which she 
said she had in June 2017. Although I also note the income for June 2017 was backed up by 
the statement from H, so I have no reason to doubt it was accurate. In any event, I dont 
think the income and expenditure information for November 2017 is relevant given the 
finance was taken out in June 2017.
Miss J indicates that she had multiple debts she was not servicing in June 2017 which 
RateSetter would have realised if it had done proportionate checks. Although she does not 
mention the same list of debts in either her income and expenditure form for June 2017 or 
November 2017. Rather in June 2017 she indicated she had debt repayments of £13.19 
against an income of £1,527.21 and a disposable income £971.02. However, finance companies are not meant to merely accept information from an applicant 
for finance, at face value although as a starting point, a finance company might reasonably 
expect a prospective borrower to give accurate information. It appears RateSetter did look at 
Miss Js other debts and past payment history both to cross reference what she told it but to 
also check whether Miss J would be able to make the repayments sustainably. And those 
checks showed a default within the last 12 months and a County Court judgment in 2016. 
Miss J has supplied information to show she had an addition County Court judgment in 2015 
but nothing Ive seen demonstrates RateSetter could reasonably have known about this.
Therefore the checks that RateSetter carried out did reveal some adverse information but 
that by itself, does not mean that RateSetters checks did not go far enough. Rather I am 
satisfied that on balance RateSetter gathered sufficient information to gain an appropriate 
overview of Miss Js financial circumstances. It did enough to demonstrate that Miss J could 
repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on her financial 
situation.
Overall, in the circumstances I find that the checks carried out were proportionate. Moreover 
given what RateSetter knew about Miss Js wider financial circumstances I find that the 
decision to lend was fair and it did not act unreasonably. It follows I dont have to look further 
than this at this part of Miss Js complaint.
2018 Finance
When RateSetter operated an electronic system in relation to lending by R to Miss J under a 
P2P agreement, it was a regulated firm. This meant it had to follow the relevant regulations 
at the time for this activity. 
In brief, under those regulations RateSetter had to make sure it carried out an assessment of 
the creditworthiness of the prospective borrower, that is Miss J. In particular, it had to 
consider the potential for the commitments under the P2P agreement to adversely impact 
the prospective borrowers financial situation, taking into account the information of which 
the business was aware at the time the P2P agreement was to be made. It also had to take 
account of the prospective borrowers ability to make repayments in a sustainable manner 
for the entire duration of the agreement. 
Further, RateSetter had to carry out other regulatory obligations to the same extent as if it 
was the lender. In particular, amongst other things, it had to put in place clear and effective 
policies and procedures to make a reasonable creditworthiness assessment. 
RateSetter was obliged to take account of relevant information when making this 
assessment. Moreover, it needed to take steps to ensure that information was complete and 
correct. The extent and scope of the assessment had to be dependent upon and 
proportionate to factors which might have included:
  The type of credit.
 The amount of credit. 
 The cost of credit. 
 The financial position of the prospective borrower at the time of seeking the credit. 
Also, RateSetter was also obliged to take account of obligations that were relevant to 
lenders (even though it was not a lender) and use that as guidance. 
The guidance indicated amongst other things, set out the factors it might consider when 
deciding if its assessment was proportionate. Bearing that guidance in mind, I am satisfied 
RateSetter ought reasonably to have taken into account that Miss J was seeking thousands 
of pounds of unsecured credit payable over a fairly long period of time and the monthly 
repayments were substantial in the context. Further still, the repayments under the 2018 
agreement were over £100 per month than under the 2017 agreement. Moreover, RateSetter was aware that Miss J was also servicing the balance of her pre-existing debt 
from the 2017 finance.
In general the fact that Miss J was seeking new credit to acquire a car in 2018 so soon after 
taking new credit for the same purpose in 2017 might have been a cause for concern but it 
was not here because the car funded by the 2017 finance had been involved in an accident 
and seemingly written off and RateSetter knew this, so this explained the timing of this new 
application.
According to RateSetters records it looked at Miss Js credit score and past credit payment 
history. But it chose not to ask about or verify actual income and expenditure. I think in the 
very particular circumstances of this complaint it would have been proportionate to look at 
Miss Js actual income and outgoings as part of the creditworthiness assessment and the 
assessment of Miss Js ability to repay any new borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
I appreciate that RateSetter tells us it assessed Miss Js income through independent 
means. RateSetter did not check Miss Js outgoings, it would appear, so it hard to see how it 
could have known with any degree of certainty that Miss Js outgoings were at such a level 
that she still had enough income to make the repayments especially taking into account what 
it already knew about Miss Js financial situation.
In the circumstances I dont think that the checks RateSetter carried out went far enough. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I also have to find that if RateSetter had done 
proportionate checks those checks would have shown that Miss J would have been unable 
to repay the finance in a sustainable way. So Ive looked at this point.
Ive got copies of Miss Js bank statements for the relevant period on the face of it given the 
relatively low outgoings that they demonstrate that Miss J had sufficient disposable income 
to comfortably cover the monthly repayments. I recognise that Miss J says that is not the 
case and she sent us new information about her income and expenditure that information 
does not appear to include all her income at the time, so I dont find it persuasive.
In any event Miss J indicates that her payment history towards this finance suggests the 
finance was unaffordable. What Id expect to see if this was so would be that she was not 
able to make the initial payments as they fell due but that is not what the information I have 
got shows.
Miss J tells us she was not able to pay her other debts while she was making repayments to 
this debt but that is not what the information she sent us shows as it appears she was 
making payments to at least one of the debts. In any event those repayments were so low 
on the face of it she could have made those repayments at the same time as making 
repayments to the 2018 finance out her disposable income.  She also has not explained why 
those debtors, according to her were willing to accept no payments between January 2018 
and when the debt was settled. 
Moreover Miss J tells us only once she paid off the 2018 finance did she have the money to 
pay these debts but in at least one case the amount she was repaying went down after she 
finished paying off this debt which contradicts her position on this.
The information I have about County Court judgments show historic judgments which 
because of their timing dont persuade me they could have been impacted by this finance. 
Ive also seen information about a County Court judgment at least a year after she took out 
this finance and again the timing of that judgment does not persuade me that this finance 
was unaffordable and therefore led to the County Court judgment.
For all these reasons, I dont find that if RateSetter had done proportionate checks those 
checks would have shown that Miss J would have been unable to repay the finance in a 
sustainable way. It follows that I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman