DRN-4374447
The complaint
Miss F, through a representative, says Nationwide Building Society irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss F took out a £10,000 loan over 60 months from Nationwide on 8 June 2022. The 
monthly repayments were £179.07 and the total repayable was £10,744.20. 
Miss F said Nationwide did not consider the affordability when giving her the loan. She lost 
all the funds as part of a romance scam. Her representative also explained Miss F had 
learning difficulties that prevent her from making financial decisions independently and 
Nationwide didnt take into account her vulnerabilities.
Nationwide said all appropriate checks were carried out prior to lending, and it was only 
notified of Miss Fs learning difficulties when she raised a fraud claim in December 2022.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Fs complaint. He said Nationwide completed adequate 
checks which did not show that Miss F would be unable to sustainably repay the loan. And 
whilst Nationwide knew Miss F was hard of hearing, it had not been told about her learning 
difficulties when she applied for this loan. 
Miss F disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. Her 
representative said she should have had someone with her before signing the loan 
agreement. Nationwide ought to have taken into account her vulnerabilities as she had 
always needed support  and it had assured Miss Fs representative it would give Miss F 
special help. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. Ive 
had this approach in mind when considering Miss Fs complaint.
Nationwide needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
to Miss F irresponsibly. This means it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Miss F could repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks 
could take into account a number of things such as the loan amount, the repayment amount 
and Miss Fs income and expenditure. 
This means to decide this complaint I need to consider if Nationwides checks were 
proportionate; if so, did it make a fair lending decision; if not, what would proportionate 
checks most likely have shown; and finally, did Nationwide act unfairly towards Miss F in 
some other way.
Ive looked at the checks Nationwide carried out. Miss F declared three sources of income. 
As the third source could not be verified as ongoing Nationwide excluded it from its 
assessment and concluded her monthly income was £918. I cannot see it was on notice, or 
ought to have known, that she was on probation at work. It used national statistics to 
estimate her monthly expenses and council tax. It carried out a credit check to understand 
her existing credit commitments (£10 a month) and credit history. There was no adverse 
data. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was home improvements. 
From all its checks combined it concluded Miss F had £370.32 disposable income each 
month and so could afford this loan.
I think these checks were proportionate and that Nationwide made a fair decision based on 
the results. I note Nationwide also had access to Miss Fs current account statements as it 
provided that account to her. It has shared these and they support its conclusion that the 
loan was affordable.
It follows I dont think Nationwide was wrong to lend to Miss F. I am very sorry she lost the 
proceeds of the loan through a cruel scam and hope she now has the support she needs. I 
would remind Nationwide to treat Miss F sympathetically, and if relevant with forbearance, as 
it agrees a way for her to repay the outstanding loan balance.
I have then considered whether Nationwide treated Miss F unfairly in some other way. I dont 
think it did. Her representative disputes that Nationwide properly considered her 
vulnerabilities. But I have seen no certain evidence it was on notice of her learning difficulties 
before the fraud claim that was made in December 2022. I can see that when Nationwide 
asked for proof of income for the loan application Miss F told it she was deaf and asked to 
communicate via email. There is no record though that it was also informed of her learning 
difficulties at this point. So I cannot fairly find Nationwide failed to respond to any needs it 
was aware of.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman