DRN-3927633
The complaint
Mr H, Mrs H and Mr H are business partners, trading as H. They complain that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC changed the interest rate on their business loan before it was drawn down 
without making sufficient effort to notify them.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all here. In summary:
H was seeking to take out a business loan with Barclays. In February 2021, they 
signed a ten-year fixed loan agreement at a rate of 2.68%.
Barclays required security for the loan and, over the following months, H, together 
with their advisers, provided the necessary documentation to Barclays. The process 
took longer than either side expected but, at the end of May, the loan was finally 
approved.
The facility agreement signed in February clearly stated that the specified rate was 
only available for the next 30 days. Therefore, before drawdown of the loan could 
happen, Barclays needed to recalculate the rate. Barclays says that, on 25 May 
2021, it sent a letter to H at their registered address setting out the new rate of 
3.22%. However, the partners say they never received this letter. Barclays did not 
notify H of the new rate in any other way. 
H drew down the loan in early June 2021. However, the first they knew that they 
were being charged a higher rate of interest than they expected was in September 
2021.
These facts are not in dispute. The partners principal complaint is that Barclays did not 
make sufficient effort to notify them of the new rate before the loan completed upon draw 
down. They say that they are now encumbered with a ten-year loan costing 54 basis points 
more than they thought.
The partners say that the loan interest rate is a vital piece of information which should have 
been clearly relayed to them, and Barclays should have checked they were aware of it in 
advance of completion. They highlight that Barclays held contact information for them 
through several different communication channels which it could have used. The partners 
explain that, although they were committed to paying legal and valuation fees, they could 
still, if armed with the full facts before drawdown, have decided not to complete on the loan.
Barclays says that it did nothing wrong. It says that, in sending its letter of confirmation to the 
partners registered address in May, setting out the final terms of the loan offer, it acted in 
accordance with its standard procedures and fulfilled its obligations under the terms and 
conditions of the loan agreement. Barclays says that H should have been on notice that the 
interest rate on drawdown would be different to that provided in February given the multiple 
notifications it had provided that the initial offer was only available for 30 days.
Not content with this response from Barclays, the partners brought their complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator considered the partners complaint. He said that he didnt doubt H when 
they said they never received Barclays letter in May, but he also didnt doubt that Barclays 
had sent it. For this reason, he said that Barclays had fulfilled its obligation to notify H of the 
new rate applying to the loan prior to drawdown. He said that, while he had sympathy for the 
partners, he could not reasonably require Barclays to take any further action.
H didnt agree so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2023, saying that Barclays could 
have done more to ensure H was aware of the new rate. Both Barclays and H responded, 
and I have reflected their comments below. However, having considered their submissions 
very carefully, I have not changed the outcome of my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between H and Barclays, and considered 
all the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I consider 
central to this complaint. I believe the key question is whether Barclays made sufficient effort 
to notify the partners of the new rate which would apply to their loan before the loan 
completed upon drawdown in June 2021. I consider this first below before going on to 
consider a couple of other complaint points.
Notification of the new loan rate
With regard to whether Barclays did enough to notify H of the new rate which would apply to 
the loan, the following points are relevant:
The loan agreement signed by H in February 2021 states:
The fixed interest rate is available provided that the Facility is drawn in full 
within 30 days of the date of issue of the Key Terms.
Barclays had also previously communicated this to H both in discussion and in the 
Fact Sheet, supplied to H prior to the loan agreement.
The loan agreement also states:
26.1 Every notice, request or other communication shall: (a) be in writing  
by prepaid first class letter; (b) be deemed to have been received by the 
Borrower, in the case of a letter  48 hours after it has been sent by first 
class post ; and (c) be sent  to the Borrower at the address advised to the 
Bank.
While the partners say they didnt receive the letter sent on 25 May 2021 setting out 
the new rate, Barclays says that it was sent, complying with the terms set out above. 
I have verified the address held on file by Barclays, which is correct.Between Barclays approval of the loan on 24 May and the drawdown of the loan on 
4 June, there were conversations between Barclays Business Manager and H, but 
there was no mention of the revised rate. The letter from Barclays on 25 May, which 
the partners say they never received, states that the revised rate will have been 
discussed between the partners and their Barclays Business Manager, but this never 
happened. When there had been previous changes in the rate between October 
2020 and January 2021, prior to the signing of the facility agreement, Barclays 
Business Manager had each time communicated these changes promptly to the 
partners.
At the point of drawdown in June 2021, no documentation was provided to the 
partners confirming the final terms of the loan; and at no point did Barclays seek a 
statement of consent from the partners to proceed at the revised rate. 
H queried how Barclays could fairly claim it had satisfied its terms and conditions by sending 
the letter through first-class post without confirming receipt. H also noted that, in these terms 
and conditions, communication to the bank was only deemed effective upon actual receipt.
Although I acknowledge the asymmetry highlighted by H, I accept that Barclays satisfied the 
terms and conditions agreed by both parties in how it shared the new rate information with 
H, and that it was under no obligation to seek confirmation of receipt. Nevertheless, given 
the significance of this information, and the close working relationship between H and 
Barclays, I find it surprising that at no point did Barclays seek to confirm with the partners 
that they acknowledged the increase in interest compared with that quoted in January and 
that they were content to continue. Barclays was aware of the substantial value of the loan to 
the partners and that there had been a significant increase in the interest rate compared with 
that stated in the January loan agreement. 
In the circumstances of this case, I believe Barclays owed H a higher duty of care than 
demonstrated in the simple fulfilment of their obligations through posting a letter to them with 
the revised rate using regular first-class post. I believe Barclays should have ensured prior to 
drawdown that their customer knew the terms of the loan on which they were completing.
However, I also agree with Barclays that H should have been aware that the rate stated in 
the facility agreement had lapsed and that a new rate would apply at drawdown. So I think 
the partners also bear some responsibility in not seeking clarity on that rate.
In light of Barclays error, I need to consider what harm H suffered and decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to put things right.
This is a difficult assessment as, over the four months between January 2021 when the loan 
agreement was prepared and May 2021 when the revised rate was set, the forward cost of 
debt had increased. Although the Bank of England base rate was unchanged over the 
period, there had been a growing expectation of borrowing rates increasing in the future, 
affecting long-term rates. This is reflected, for example, in the ten-year LIBOR rate 
increasing by approximately 50 basis points between January 2021 and May 2021, as 
indicated by our investigator. Ive also confirmed that the ten-year interest rate swaps rate 
increased from 0.6% in January 2021 to 1.0% in May 2021. 
Throughout the process of setting out and confirming its offer, Barclays made clear to the 
partners that the interest rate on the loan was determined by Barclays cost of funds plus a 
margin, which they specified at 2.25%. This is confirmed in the loan agreement signed in 
February, which states:Margin: 2.250 per cent per annum.
Fixed Rate Period: 10 years from the date of first drawdown of the Facility.
Interest Rate Basis: The fixed interest rate will be 2.680 per cent per annum. The rate 
consists of the Margin and an underlying fixed interest rate [cost of funds]. 
Barclays has confirmed that its margin within its revised rate of 3.22% in May 2021 remained 
the same as in its offer rate of 2.68% in January 2021, with the increase due entirely to an 
increase in the cost of funds.
The cost of funds to Barclays priced into the loan rate was therefore 0.43% in January 2021, 
which together with the margin of 2.25% made the offer rate of 2.68%; and this increased to 
0.97% in May 2021, which together with the margin of 2.25% made the revised rate of 
3.22%. I believe this increase in the cost of funds is consistent with the changes in the 
market at this time, as indicated by the benchmarks above. 
Moreover, although Im sure the partners would have compared the new rate offered by 
Barclays against alternative lenders, I do not believe they would have switched to another 
provider for only a marginal interest rate benefit given the material costs they had already 
incurred in legal and valuation fees, which would not have been recoverable. 
For these reasons, had Barclays made more effort to ensure H was aware of the revised 
rate prior to drawdown, I do not believe it is likely that H would have cancelled its loan 
agreement with Barclays and taken out a loan elsewhere at a lower rate. 
In response to my provisional decision, Barclays said that it agreed it could have 
communicated the final rate change via other means. However, given that it also agreed with 
my provisional view that the same outcome would have been reached, Barclays said it 
believed the business was unaffected, so no redress was due. It said the outcome had 
actually saved H a pointless exercise of comparing Barclays offer to other options.
However, H said that it is possible that, at the higher rate, it might not have taken out the 
loan at all. Although it had sought to consolidate its loans and fix the rate for ten years, it 
could have decided not to continue once the rate increased. 
In my view, although this is an alternative possible outcome, the cost to H of remaining with 
its existing borrowing would also have increased in line with the market  though, over the 
full ten-year term, it is impossible to know whether remaining with its existing loans would 
have resulted in a gain or loss to H compared with the fixed rate it secured with Barclays.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, I continue to believe that it is unlikely that Barclays 
error caused H a financial loss, though I acknowledge that there is no way to be sure this is 
the case.
Nevertheless, I do believe that H lost something valuable by Barclays actions, which was 
the opportunity, in the knowledge of the higher rate from Barclays, to properly evaluate their 
options. By not being made aware of the new interest rate, they could not compare Barclays 
offer with others, including with their existing loan terms, to find the best option for their 
business. 
It is impossible to quantify the value of this lost opportunity but, given the substantial value of 
the loan and its importance to the business of H, I believe that, as compensation, Barclays 
should pay H £1,000.
I acknowledge that the interest cost over the life of the loan for H will now be substantially 
more than indicated in the offer the partners received from Barclays in January 2021, and more than they expected. But I believe this increase was principally a result of there being 
four months between offer and completion, and the underlying cost of borrowing having 
increased significantly in that period. As disappointing as it is for H, I cannot hold Barclays 
responsible for this.
Other complaint points
H has also complained that, to reach the loan agreement and provide the necessary 
documentation, Barclays required it to use lawyers which Barclays approved; but, when H 
began disputing matters with Barclays, these lawyers said they couldnt represent H as they 
represented Barclays in other work. H said this indicated a clear conflict of interest, which 
Barclays should have foreseen.
While I can appreciate the partners concern at being told that their lawyers, selected from 
Barclays approved list, also worked for Barclays, I do not believe this is unusual or caused 
H any loss. I believe it is possible for these lawyers to represent Hs interests with regard to 
the loan application and to represent Barclays on other work. It appears that the issue arose 
when H sought to use the same lawyers to represent it in its dispute with Barclays. But I can 
appreciate that this is a different task, and one which would then put those lawyers in 
conflict. I dont believe I can reasonably expect Barclays to have anticipated the dispute or 
that H would wish to appoint the same lawyers to represent it in that situation. Therefore, I 
do not require Barclays to take any further action about this.
H has also expressed concern about the length of time it took for the loan to be made 
available. The partners said that, in October 2020, when they began discussions with 
Barclays, they were told that it would take about three months for the loan to be made 
available so, when the agreement was signed in February 2021, they expected drawdown to 
be quick, within the 30 days in which the specified rate was available.
However, having looked carefully at the correspondence between H and Barclays 
throughout this period, and the process through which Barclays requested documentation 
from H and which H then supplied, I do not believe that either side delayed matters unduly. It 
appears to me that the process was conducted effectively from both sides, with only minor 
occasional delays from both parties. While I can appreciate why H might have expected the 
loan to have been available more quickly, I have seen nothing to indicate that Barclays did 
anything materially wrong in how it processed Hs loan application. Therefore, I do not 
require Barclays to take any further action about this.
Overall, I acknowledge that this will not be the answer H was hoping for but, for the reasons 
set out above, I believe this is a fair resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay H £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman