DRN-4293126
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Revolut Ltd wont refund a payment made from his account to an 
airline.
What happened
In February 2023, a payment was made from Mr Fs Revolut account to an airline for £54.28. 
On the same day, Mr F contacted Revolut to dispute the payment and ask that it be 
refunded.
Revolut investigated but said it couldnt find any evidence of fraudulent activity on Mr Fs 
account, and so didnt agree to refund the payment. Mr F wasnt satisfied with Revoluts 
response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They were satisfied Mr F had authorised the 
payment, and didnt think hed provided enough evidence that it wasnt received by the 
airline. So they thought Revolut had acted reasonably in not carrying out a chargeback or 
refunding the payment. Mr F disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revoluts records show that, when Mr F first disputed the payment, he said he hadnt made 
a payment to the airline and that it was fraudulent.
Revolut has sent us technical evidence showing that the payment was initially declined by its 
fraud prevention system, and Mr F was sent a message through Revoluts app asking him to 
review the payment and confirm whether it was genuine. It says Mr F pressed a button in the 
app to confirm he recognised the payment. And the payment was then put through again 
and completed successfully.
Mr F has also now accepted that he made the payment to the airline. And so, based on all 
this, I think Revolut acted reasonably in finding that there was no fraudulent activity on his 
account and in not agreeing to refund the payment.
Mr F has now told our service that he made the payment to the airline, but that the airline 
told him the payment wasnt received. He says he didnt receive the ticket he was paying for 
and so wants Revolut to dispute the payment on this basis.
A chargeback is a process which allows banks, on behalf of their customers, to dispute card 
payments directly with the business that the payment was made to. But we only expect 
banks to carry out a chargeback for a customer where there is a reasonable prospect of it 
being successful.
Mr F says he spoke with the airline over the phone and by email, and it told him it hadnt 
received the payment due to an error with its website. But he hasnt sent evidence of what 
the airline told him to either us or Revolut. And he also hasnt sent us evidence of what he 
was supposed to be paying for.
Without clear evidence of what the payment was for and that he didnt receive what he paid 
for, I dont think a chargeback is likely to succeed. So I think Revolut has acted reasonably in 
not carrying out a chargeback here. And so I dont think it would be fair for me to require 
Revolut to refund the payment made from Mr Fs account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman