DRN-1908405
The complaint
Mr A makes a number of complaints about Commsave Credit Union Limited.
What happened
Mr A says he spoke to Commsave in October 2018 following financial difficulties. He says he 
wanted Commsave to stop deducting loan repayments directly from his wages and says it 
forced him into taking out a consolidation loan that he couldnt afford. Mr A says he was 
forced into taking out payday loans and that the lending was unaffordable and irresponsible. 
He would like compensation for the loans he was forced to take out and for the interest 
refunded.
Commsave says Mr A agreed to a deduction from his wages but later stopped that payment 
method. It says it reduced Mr As repayments and says the only way to have done so was to 
agree to a consolidation loan which he agreed to. Commsave says Mr A made some 
repayments but then stopped doing so.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr A had completed an income and expenditure form showing he had a disposable 
income and thought he couldnt hold Commserve responsible for Mr As payday loans. The 
investigator thought Commserve had refunded a payment back to Mr A and had tried to help 
him.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and in summary says the payroll deduction was voluntary and 
it should have stopped when he no longer agreed to it. He says he was told Commsave 
would not accept a direct debit and also says the budget information wasnt correct. Mr A 
says he signed the agreement under duress and says he wasnt given any referral rights to 
us. He also complains that a Commsave member of staff dealt with parts of his complaint 
when he had complained about that person.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision. I also make clear that I have seen final 
response letters from 2018 dealing with parts of this complaint and telling Mr A that he had 
six months to bring any complaint to us. Commsave hasnt raised any time limit concerns 
and in any event, I think that all of the complaint points are linked and can be dealt with in 
this final decision.
Lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. There 
is no dispute here that Mr A found himself in such difficulties here and spoke to Commsave 
about them and in particular about the repayment deduction that was being taken directly 
from his wages. Im satisfied that Mr A would have agreed to that repayment method initially 
and so I dont think Commsave made a mistake or acted unfairly by making the deduction. I 
have looked carefully at Comsaves records and looked at the transcript of the calls between 
it and Mr A. And I can see that Commsave fairly told Mr A that it couldnt stop the payment 
straight away but would refund it save for the £100 agreed payment. So, I find Commsave 
acted fairly in those circumstances and tried to help Mr A and I dont think it made a mistake.
I can see that Commsave fairly asked Mr A to complete a financial means form and was 
entitled to question some of Mr As stated expenditure and ask him if it was essential. I can 
also see that Commsave agreed to a lower repayment amount and later froze interest. And 
Im satisfied that Commsave tried to help Mr A by offering the consolidation loan which 
would have reduced the monthly repayments. Im also satisfied that Commsave gave Mr A 
the option of doing so when it had considered Mr As financial position, but it was Mr As 
decision to take that option. I have not seen any evidence that any duress was placed on Mr 
A to accept that option and Im satisfied that Mr A was receiving an income at this time. So, I 
dont think Commsave made a mistake or acted unfairly by offering the consolidation loan 
and Im satisfied that it fairly carried out proportionate and reasonable checks before making 
that offer. I find Mr A could have rejected that offer if he wished.
I appreciate Mr A says he complained about a Commsave staff member, but that person 
investigated part of his complaint and that he wasnt given referral rights to us. Im satisfied 
that a different staff member sent Mr A the final response letters from Commsave and fairly 
provided Mr A with a transcript of the calls with the staff member complained about. I dont 
think in any event it matters which staff member investigated the complaints as Mr A has 
brought his complaint to us for an independent decision. Im also satisfied that Commsave 
sent Mr A a number of letters including by e-mail which clearly gave him referral rights to us, 
and I can see in an e-mail from Mr A to Commsave he makes reference to those referral 
rights. So, Im satisfied overall Mr A was given referral rights to us and was aware of how to 
complain to Commsave, as he has done on a number of occasions.
Overall, Im satisfied that Commsave has acted positively and sympathetically and fairly tried 
to help Mr A. I find the consolidation loan was not mis-sold and that Mr A was given referral 
rights to us on a number of occasions. I also find that Commsave didnt make a mistake by 
not cancelling the deduction from Mr As wages immediately and fairly refunded most of that 
payment back the following day. I dont think it matters if Commsave was unable to agree to 
a direct debit repayment method or that it can be responsible for Mr A taking out payday 
loans. And I find that it was Mr As responsibility to make sure the information in the means 
form was accurate and correct and ought reasonably to have brought that to Commsaves 
attention if it wasnt accuate, before agreeing to the loan.
Im satisfied this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can 
do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman