DRN-4110053
The complaint
Mr S complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltds (C&G) 
settlement of his pet insurance claim. My references to C&G include its agents.
What happened
Mr S had pet insurance for his dog underwritten by C&G. He claimed for surgery to remove a 
histiocytoma (a small benign lump) on his dogs face. The total cost of the surgery was 
£979.10.
C&G accepted the claim, less the excess, and agreed to pay Mr S £754.42. It wouldnt pay 
£6.20 for the buster collar, £7.81 for the consumables, £111.24 for the fluid therapy and 
£9.43 for medication over a 100% mark-up. Mr S told us hes not concerned about the 
smaller items but he wants C&G to pay for the fluid therapy.
C&G initially told Mr S it wouldnt pay for the fluid therapy as the policy only covered vet fees 
essential for his dogs health and well-being. In its final response letter C&G said it 
considered fluid therapy to be routine treatment, that was included as part of other treatment, 
which the policy excluded. C&G also said it would consider covering the cost if fluid therapy 
was necessary to save a pets life or for a senior animal but there was no evidence that 
applied to Mr S dog.
Mr S complained to us. In summary he said:
The policy terms C&G relied on were too vague for him to know in advance of the 
surgery what C&G would and wouldnt cover and he wouldnt know in advance what 
treatment the operating vet would decide needed to be done.
The policy wasnt clear fluid therapy might be excluded as it was routine. He 
believed the vet wouldnt do unnecessary treatment.
The policy didnt say C&G might cover fluid therapy for an older animal but not for a 
younger animal.
The above meant the policy terms depended on C&Gs discretion and interpretation
and were unfair.
Our investigator spoke to a vet nurse at the vet practice where Mr S dog had surgery. The 
nurse said fluid therapy wasnt essential except when a dog is senior or poorly. So our 
investigator said C&G fairly declined the claim as the fluid therapy for Mr S dog was routine 
treatment.
Mr S disagreed and wanted an ombudmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Im intending to uphold the complaint as I think C&G unreasonably declined to pay for the 
fluid therapy. Ill explain why.
The policy terms cover vet fees, up to the policy limit, but says under the general exclusions:
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: -
Reasonable; and
Essential for Your pet's health and well-being
The policy also excludes:
Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment.
Fluid therapy is intravenous fluid given while an animal is under anaesthetic. Ive listened to 
the call between our investigator and the vet nurse and the nurse said the practice would 
always advise fluid therapy when giving an animal anaesthetic but it was essential when a 
dog was senior or unwell.
Mr S dog was about nine months old at the time of surgery and Ive seen no evidence that 
he was unwell before or during the surgery. So from the vet nurses evidence the fluid 
therapy for Mr S dog wasnt essential but would have been advised for his well-being. C&G 
say that makes the fluid therapy for Mr S dog routine treatment.
But even if I thought under a strict interpretation of the policy terms C&G could deduct the 
fluid therapy costs from the overall surgery costs I also have to consider whats fair and 
reasonable.
Theres no policy definition of routine treatment so its open to C&G to decide what 
treatment is routine and exclude it. Its not clear to a policyholder what treatment C&G would 
consider to be routine. I dont think thats treating customers fairly or allowing them to work 
out if the policys cover is suitable for their needs. I think a consumer can reasonably 
understand that when a vet operates on their animal the vet will do the necessary treatment 
to try to ensure the animals well-being. Mr S vet practice says fluid therapy is advisable if 
an animal is anaesthetised and thats what happened with Mr S dog. I think an average 
consumer wouldnt understand from the policy terms that fluid therapy wouldnt be covered 
as part of general surgery costs.
In these circumstances I didnt think C&G fairly and reasonably relied on the above policy 
exclusions to deduct the cost of fluid therapy from its settlement of the claim. I said I was 
intending to require C&G to pay Mr S the £111.24 for the fluid therapy plus interest as I detail 
below.
Responses to my provisional decision 
C&G didnt respond. Mr S accepted my provisional decision and he said he hoped C&G  
would take note of what Id said about the relevant policy wording.
Mr S added that as a result of this problem he cancelled the policy with C&G and moved to 
another insurer but the new policy excluded cover for pre-existing medical conditions, as is 
usual when moving to another insurerWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As C&G hasnt responded to my provisional decision and Mr S accepted it Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings 
I dont think C&G fairly and reasonably deducted the cost of fluid therapy from its settlement 
payment of Mr S claim and I uphold the complaint.
Mr S says that as a result of this dispute with C&G he changed insurer which meant his dog 
isnt covered for pre-existing conditions. Its not clear if he wants to complain about that 
matter. If so hell need to first complain to C&G about the matter and if agreement cant be 
reached he can make a separate complaint to us.
Putting things right
C&G must pay Mr S £111.24 for the fluid therapy that it deducted from its settlement 
payment of the claim, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to 
pay Mr S £111.24 for the cost of the fluid therapy that it deducted from its settlement 
payment of the claim and add interest* at 8% simple a year from the date Mr S paid the vets 
bill until the date of settlement.
*If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr S how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman