DRN-2538449
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy BISL Limited cancelled his car insurance policy and that his new policy cost 
more.
Mr C is being represented by Mrs C, where necessary I will refer to her in this decision.  
What happened
BISL wrote to Mr C twice in June 2019 to explain his premium payment had been returned 
unpaid by his bank. It said the outstanding payment would need to be made by the start of 
July, or his policy would be cancelled. 
Mr C had made a claim for repairs to his car through his insurer. He was unhappy with how 
his claim was being dealt with so he told BISL he wouldnt be paying any further premiums.
BISL cancelled Mr Cs policy due to non-payment. 
Mrs C phoned BISL as she was unhappy the policy had been cancelled. Mrs C said she was 
told the policy wouldnt be cancelled. Mrs C said Mr Cs credit rating had been affected. 
BISL agreed to set up a new policy for Mr C and keep the outstanding debt on the old policy 
separate. 
Mrs C is unhappy with how BISL have dealt with Mr Cs policy and the fact the premium on 
his new policy was higher. 
BISL explained it followed the terms of the policy when it cancelled Mr Cs policy. It 
explained the new policy was likely more expensive as Mr Cs recent claim has now been 
taken into account. 
Mrs C remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think the case should be upheld as he didnt think BISL had acted 
incorrectly.  The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
When Mr C took out his policy, he entered into two separate contracts, one with the insurer 
and one with a credit provider for his monthly premium payments. 
BISL deal with the administration on Mr Cs policy, which means it will send out 
documentation and act on the instructions of the insurer or the credit provider. 
Mr Cs policy document makes this clear and that his policy maybe cancelled due to non-
payment, after seven days notice has been given. Im satisfied that BISL followed this 
process correctly.
Ive listened to the call in which Mrs C says she was told the policy wouldnt be cancelled, 
however I didnt hear this be said. Mrs C was told the policy was in the cancellation cycle 
and the payment would likely still need to be made. But, given Mrs C was due to find out the 
next day from the insurer what the result of the claim was, BISL would wait until then before 
taking the matter further. 
I appreciate Mr C may have had issues with the claim his insurer was dealing with, but his 
premium payments would still have been due. In the event of a successful claim, it is usual 
that the full annual premium is due to be paid. So, Mr C would still have needed to pay his 
premiums.  Overall, BISL tried to take the payment twice before giving seven days notice of 
cancellation so I think it acted fairly here.  I understand Mr C was told by his insurer the claim 
would be accepted prior to the date his policy cancelled, so he had the opportunity to make a 
payment to keep the policy active, but he chose not to.
BISL also acts as a broker so when Mrs C said she was unhappy Mr Cs policy had been 
cancelled, it was able to arrange a new policy for him through its panel of insurers. BISL do 
not set the premiums for the policies, so if Mr C is unhappy with the cost of the new policy, 
he would have to raise that with the insurer concerned.  BISL has however explained that 
the claim Mr C made on his policy was taken into account on his new policy and that would 
most likely explain the increase. I dont think this explanation is unreasonable, in my 
experience claims can have an impact on the premium price. 
To make the situation more affordable for Mr C, BISL offered to keep the two payments 
separate so that Mr C could make the first payment on his new policy and deal with the 
outstanding payments on the old policy at a later time.  I think this was a reasonable action 
to take as it meant Mr C was able to be insured going forward. 
Overall, I dont think BISL has acted incorrectly in cancelling Mr Cs policy. Due to the issues 
he had with his insurer, Mr C made his own decision not to pay the outstanding premiums, 
so it wasnt unreasonable for BISL to cancel the policy. And, I think it assisted him further by 
arranging for the premium payments to be dealt with separately. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against BISL Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman