The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage in 1987.
What happened
In June 1987 Mr and Mrs B applied for a mortgage. At the same time, they applied for a PPI 
policy. When the PPI started, it cost £12 a month, and it would have helped repay the 
mortgage for up to two years if either Mr or Mrs B were off work sick or lost their jobs.
Mr and Mrs B think the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs B didn't agree with the adjudicator.
The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first looked at whether Mr and Mrs B understood they had a choice to buy the cover. 
Mr and Mrs B have told us they don't have any recollection about the PPI. But they have 
sent us documents from around the time they applied for the PPI and mortgage. So I've 
thought about what they've said alongside the information I've seen about the sale.
The mortgage offer, which was prepared on 19 June 1987, mentions a number of insurance 
policies. It says Halifax was going to arrange buildings and contents insurance. It was also 
going to arrange mortgage guarantee insurance. But the offer doesn't mention PPI or say its 
a condition of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B applied for the PPI by a separate application form, which I've seen. This was 
signed on 23 June 1987.
So based on what I've seen, Halifax had already offered Mr and Mrs B a mortgage at the 
point they applied for the PPI. And Mr and Mrs B completed a separate application. I note 
that the application form also explained that the policy can be cancelled. And I'm mindful that 
DRN-1125644Mr and Mrs B say they don't now remember what happened. So on balance, I think it's most 
likely that Mr and Mrs B knew they had a choice -  and chose to buy the policy.
Halifax recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs B. So it had to make sure the policy was right 
for them. Based on what I've seen of their circumstances, I think it was.
Mr and Mrs B don't appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didn't 
cover.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs B may have received some sick pay or redundancy pay from 
their employers. But after three months this policy would have helped meet their mortgage 
repayments for up to two years - which is a lot longer than any sick pay would have covered 
them for.
I also acknowledge that the mortgage was guaranteed by parents of Mr and Mrs B. But I 
don't think this shows that Mr and Mrs B's parents would have been in a position to pay 
Mr and Mrs B's mortgage for a long period if they couldn't work. This policy would have 
meant that Mr and Mrs B didn't need to rely on help from their parents - and I haven't seen 
anything to suggest the policy wasn't affordable. So I think this policy would have been 
useful to Mr and Mrs B at what would have been a difficult time.
I've thought about everything else Mr and Mrs B have said. But this doesn't change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman