DRN-1670775
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr D. 
Allianz didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to 
it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1991 alongside a store card. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Allianz didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint. This is because the policy terms meant he would be 
unable to claim PPI unemployment benefit under certain circumstances that didnt affect 
most people. This is because the policy didnt pay out at the end of a fixed term contract. 
And Mr D was working on a fixed term contract, and continued to do this for several years on 
a rolling basis. If the contract was not renewed and he was made unemployed, the PPI is 
unlikely to have paid out. 
I dont think this was made clear enough to Mr D when he agreed to take the PPI. I dont 
think hed have taken the PPI if hed properly understood the terms.
Putting things right
Allianz should put Mr D in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. Allianz should find out how much Mr D would have owed when he closed his credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Allianz should then refund the difference between what Mr D owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Allianz can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. Allianz should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr D would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until the point when Mr D 
wouldve owed something on his credit card. The rate of interest is 15% a year until 
April 1993 and 8% a year from then on. 
 
C. If  when Allianz works out what Mr D would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr D paid more than enough to clear his balance, Allianz should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr D paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr D wouldve owed Allianz something on his credit. The rate of interest is 15% 
a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on. 
 
D. Allianz should tell Mr D what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Allianz to take off tax from this interest. Allianz must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr D that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by Allianz from the redress shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. I require Allianz Insurance 
Plc to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman