DRN-2795025
The complaint
Miss M has complained about her motor insurer U K Insurance Ltd (UKI) in respect of how it 
handled her claim made when a third-party vehicle crashed into her.
What happened
There was an accident involving Miss Ms car. The accident was the fault of the other driver, 
it was captured on CCTV and Miss Ms car sustained what she believed to be minor 
cosmetic damage. Miss Ms car was taken to her garage and she called UKI. 
Miss M has told us that whilst this call seemed to go well, it was the beginning of a whole 
host of failures by UKI. Miss M said that during a three-week period after the claim was 
made, she received misleading, sometimes aggressive, and contradictory messages from 
UKIs representatives, on the phone and in email. In summary, she told us that she was 
called by an engineer who was rude and failed to properly inspect or asses the car. The car 
was then written off. Further, the claims team didnt communicate with her and various 
details shed given werent noted down. UKI then sent her a settlement cheque, suspended 
her insurance and passed her details to a salvage dealer who called her to arrange removal 
of her vehicle. But Miss M wasnt aware for several days that her insurance had been 
suspended and she continued to drive the car. Letters explaining the suspension were 
eventually received. 
 
Around three-weeks into the claim UKI agreed to send an engineer to assess Miss Ms car. 
He determined that the first engineer had been wrong to assume what repairs were needed. 
UKI accepted that if it had assessed the car at the outset, it would never have said it should 
be written off, and all of the following stressful events would have been avoided. It also 
accepted that its staff had been less than professional, that it had failed to record details 
properly, that it should have communicated better and that all these failures by it had caused 
Miss M a lot of upset. UKI apologised and paid Miss M a total of £450 compensation. 
Miss M remained unhappy. She was particularly concerned about the period during which 
the car had been used without insurance. UKI assured Miss M if something had happened it 
would have resolved it. UKI explained that, at this time it could do no more than offer 
reassurances in that respect, apologise for what had happened and offer fair compensation 
 all of which it had done. Miss M complained to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt UKI had acted poorly, causing Miss M 
distress and inconvenience. But he felt it had acted to put things right, as well as apologising 
and paying fair and reasonable compensation. He didnt think he could say it should 
reasonably have to do more. 
Miss M remained unhappy. She said UKI only put things right because she pursued the 
matter and this had had a huge effect on her for over a month. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive only included a summary of events in my background above, Ive read all the 
details Miss M has provided about what happened and what she went through. Ive also 
seen UKIs responses.
Having done so I think its very clear that UKI failed Miss M on this occasion. And failed her 
in a number of ways, over the course of several weeks. Its also clear that the failures came 
from different areas within UKIs business and that UKI accepts that everything Miss M went 
through, from the point its first engineer made his initial call to her, shouldve been avoided. 
I dont think there is any doubt that UKI agrees that the distress and inconvenience Miss M 
experienced was its fault. I think its clearly acknowledged that, apologised and offered 
compensation to make up for everything. I cant reasonably expect it to do more than that.
I realise that if Miss M had not challenged UKI then things may not have been corrected. But 
it wouldn't be fair to award compensation because of that. That would be a punitive award. 
Rather the compensation awards made by this service reflect the distress and 
inconvenience the policyholder is put through on account of a businesss failures, and that 
includes the distress and inconvenience caused to them in having to try and put things right. 
Similarly we don't consider it fair or reasonable to award compensation is in respect of things 
that might have happened but didnt. So I appreciate it was a shock for Miss M to learn the 
car had been driven without insurance being in place  and I can take that upset into 
account when thinking about compensation. But I cant award compensation based on the 
fact that if thered been an accident or a check by the police whilst the car was being used 
without insurance, that would have left Miss M in a difficult position which UKI would then 
have had to fix. I dont doubt such a situation would be, at the very least, stressful  but that 
situation didnt occur, Miss M thankfully didnt experience that awful situation, so Im not 
going to award compensation for it. 
I think its fair to say that UKI put Miss M through a lot over the weeks of this claim. I accept 
this must have been a very difficult time for Miss M and that she should never have had to 
experience any of it. But I do think that UKIs apology and payment of £450 compensation is 
a fair and reasonable remedy in the circumstances. Because UKI has resolved matters in 
what I see to be a fair and reasonable way, Im not upholding this complaint. To be clear, 
thats not to say I think that UKI did nothing wrong  Im satisfied it did, and my findings 
clearly reflect that. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman