DRN-3926704
The complaint
Mr K complains about Revolut Ltds (Revolut) handling of a money transfer.  
What happened
Mr K wanted to transfer €320 to his friends bank account. He says, as his friends account 
was in Euros and his account with Revolut is in GBP, he was instructed by the Revolut 
mobile app that he needed to open an Euro account with Revolut so funds could be 
transferred in Euros. Mr K proceeded with this and bought Euros from the bank account 
linked to his Revolut account  which Mr K says incurred a fee. Mr K says he then sent the 
funds using the app but the Euros were converted back into GBP and sent to his friends 
account. Mr K says his friend was then charged a fee to receive the funds in GBP which    
Mr K had to pay. Mr K says he then spent several hours on the Revolut helpline during which 
he says he received misinformation.  
Mr K complained and Revolut responded and explained theyre still investigating the issue 
surrounding the transfer being sent in GBP instead of Euros. They accepted the level of 
support Mr K received when he contacted the helpline wasnt reasonable. They apologised 
and credited Mr Ks account with £75 for the distress and inconvenience. They also, as a 
gesture of goodwill, started a two-month subscription to their Premium plan free of charge. 
During our investigation, Revolut explained theyd investigated the issue with the transfer 
and found there hadnt been a technical error as Mr K appears to have selected GBP instead 
of Euros.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He thought Revolut werent responsible for the 
issue with the transfer but they had made an error when providing Mr K with support. He felt 
the £75 already paid was reasonable and didnt recommend Revolut take any further steps. 
Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. 
I understand Mr K wanted to transfer funds to a friend and he says he followed instructions 
from Revolut to enable him to do this. The information shows Mr K opened a EUR wallet so 
that funds could be sent in Euros. Revolut have provided transaction information which 
shows the amount Mr K wanted to send  which is an amount in Euros. It also shows what 
Mr K actually sent  which is an amount in GBP. The information shows there are two 
pockets available for Mr K to send the funds; a Euro pocket and a GBP pocket. Ive seen 
the transaction details for this transfer and this shows the currency pocket used was in GBP. 
Revolut say, this means Mr K wouldve selected the Euro pocket as the pocket to charge for 
the transfer, but he would then have selected GBP as the transfer currency. Revolut say, 
therefore, in order to assign the payment, the beneficiary bank needed to exchange GBP 
back into Euros, so the payment was converted twice during its journey from Mr K to his 
friend. 
Taking this into account, I cant say Revolut have made an error. The transaction information 
shows the GBP pocket was selected to transfer the funds and I havent seen any information 
which suggests a technical error was responsible for automatically switching the pocket to 
send the transfer funds. I do acknowledge Mr K says he was charged an exchange rate fee 
by Revolut and a further £30 to exchange the funds back into Euros and correct the error. I 
can see Revolut refunded Mr K their fee of £3.50 but I wont be asking them to reimburse   
Mr K the £30 he has incurred as I dont find them to be responsible for the funds being sent 
in GBP. 
Turning now to the complaint about Revoluts handling of Mr Ks queries when he contacted 
the helpline to find out what had happened. Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr K. 
Revolut have admitted they got things wrong when Mr K didnt receive the level of support 
he shouldve. The only issue I have to decide for this part of the complaint is whether their 
offer of compensation is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Revolut should compensate Mr K for the frustration and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation should be, Ive looked at the error by Revolut and what the impact of that error 
has been. 
Mr K was understandably frustrated when he was given different responses to explain what 
had happened and it doesnt appear the agents fully understood Mr Ks concern. Mr K was 
also inconvenienced in having to re-join the helpline chat facility over a few days to get 
support. Taking this all into account, I think the apology and £75 paid by Revolut is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I acknowledge Mr K was frustrated at not getting a clear 
response to explain how the error with the transfer arose, but I hope Mr K feels reassured he 
has the answer to that now. 
I note Mr K asks, if he was to repeat this transaction again, would the service work as its 
intended to. Im afraid I cant answer that for Mr K. Revolut say the transaction process did 
work as intended in this case as the error wasnt caused by a system or technical issue. So, 
if Mr K does wish to carry out a similar transaction in future, Revolut have explained why and 
how the error occurred here so I hope that does provide some comfort to Mr K on how this 
can be avoided in future.  
Mr K asks why it is that Revoluts advertised service doesnt work, why their helpline doesnt 
help and why their complaints procedure doesnt offer answers. Ive already addressed the 
first part of Mr Ks queries above. I do acknowledge Mr Ks frustration about the helpline and, 
as mentioned above, I think the compensation Revolut have paid fairly reflects the impact on 
Mr K. I think Revolut have also provided Mr K with a degree of reassurance that theyve 
taken his complaint seriously as they confirm this case will be thoroughly reviewed by the 
management team and the support agents involved. 
In relation to Mr Ks concern about the complaints process, complaint handling isnt a 
regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the law, if the 
complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into things. Where 
complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take into account 
complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this case, I cant say 
the issues which Mr K raises about the complaints handling are an extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint handling part of the 
complaint.      
I understand Mr K will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why hes upset about his 
overall experience with Revolut during this transaction. I wish to reassure Mr K Ive read and 
considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman