DRN-2351928
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs G says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them 
PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because there was a separate section about PPI on their 
mortgage application form and Mr G signed this to say that he wanted the cover. Mr G 
then completed a separate application form for the PPI.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, Mr G, who 
the policy covered, was eligible for the cover and they didnt have any means to fall back 
on, so they had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr Gs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although the application form shows Mr G had a medical 
condition within the 12 months before the policy start date, I dont think it was wrong for 
Halifax to have recommended it. I say this because the notes about Mr Gs condition 
confirm it was a one off problem and that he hadnt had any further issues.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs G as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs G would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So, I think they would have 
still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs G would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Gs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman