DRN-2169685
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC closed his account and registered a fraud marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr M opened an account with Metro Bank on 28 February 2020. He says he left his bank 
card and his mobile phone in his jacket in a park on 1 March 2020. He did nothing about this. 
He says he only found out that Metro Bank had closed his account when an account he had 
at another bank was closed in May 2020. He says he had nothing to do with a fraudulent 
payment into his Metro account and that the fraud marker is unfair. He didnt speak to Metro 
about this in March 2020 and it said it had wrongly recorded his door number as 16 rather 
than 60 so he didnt get its letter about his account. 
Metro Bank says it received a report on 13 March 2020 that a credit for £400 into Mr Ms 
account was part of a scam. The money had quickly been moved out that day using an 
online payment. It spoke to Mr M on 13 March 2020 to ask him about the source of the 
credit. And it wasnt satisfied with his answer and told him that it would be closing his 
account and registering the marker. It wrote to Mr M about this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
- She didnt think that the pattern of use of the account was typical of a fraudster. 
There had been no attempt to use the card or act quickly after Mr M said it had been 
lost. And as Mr M said he hadnt shared his details with anyone (including his PIN) it 
was a risk for a fraudster only to have the option of transferring any credits online.
- Mr M accepts he had registered his device for use with online banking on 28 
February 2020. A different device was used to make the payment. A third party 
wanting to access mobile banking with that different device would need Mr Ms 
customer number, security number and to be able to access a one-time passcode 
sent to the mobile phone number Metro Bank had registered for him.
- Shed listened to a recording of the call Metro Bank said it had with Mr M. She 
considered the voice was similar to his and it was most likely him. The person was 
able to give security details about the account. Notably that person gave the correct 
address for Mr M as living at number 60 not 16. She thought it likely a fraudster 
would have given the door number that Metro Bank had.
- The person on the call couldnt explain the money coming in but did give the 
surname of the person sending it which matched the narrative on the payment. So, 
she thought that Mr M knew about the fraud.
- She didnt understand why Mr M didnt report either his phone or card lost. He had 
said it was too far to go to a branch but there seemed to be one relatively close to his 
address. And he could have called or reported this online.
- She thought Metro Bank had grounds to close the account given the reported fraud. 
Mr M had been made aware of this on the phone and it was up to him to give Metro 
Bank his correct address. It had shown that it had met the high bar for recording a 
marker.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He now said that all his 
information including the access details for online banking and his PIN were stored on his 
phone. His passcode for his phone was his name and he had given his name on the 
background screen on his phone. He maintained he never spoke to Metro Bank in March. 
He can see why it closed his account, but he thought that the CIFAS marker was harsh 
given the implications for him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
I know Mr M thinks he has a plausible explanation for what happened and that as any new 
point has been put to him he can counter it. I need to explain to him that I wont be able to 
say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely overall. 
The following factors here are to me most relevant in making this assessment:
- Mr M had an existing bank account. He says he opened this one as a back up or to 
separate his money. He says he never used it. His application form was signed on 28 
February 2020, he had the bank card and hed registered for online banking. He 
remembers (because of a cousins birthday) when he was in the park and lost his 
jacket and card on 1 March 2020. He said his phone was worthless to him. If that 
was all the case and having gone to the trouble of opening a new account I find it 
highly unlikely he would do nothing about that as he claims for two months. Our 
investigators explained that this wouldnt be difficult for him to report to Metro.
- To find he wasnt involved Id need to think that an opportunistic fraudster found his 
card and phone, was able to work out the passcode and accessed all the information 
he says he stored on there. I note that Mr Ms explanation of how much information 
was on there seemed only to be given in response to what the investigator explained 
would have been required by a fraudster. In any event Id need to think that this 
fraudster made no immediate attempt to use the card but instead made 
arrangements to access the account online. And that the fraudster waited up to 10 
days (depending when the card and phone were found) before being able to arrange 
for fraudulent funds to be paid into the account. That risked detection and what would 
have likely been expected to have been Mr Ms report to police and Metro Bank by 
then of the loss.
- Ive listened to the call Metro Bank says it had with Mr M and the calls hes made to 
this service. I agree with Metro Bank and our investigator that it is most likely his 
voice on the call in March 2020. I say that taking into account the point our 
investigator made about the address discrepancy and that a fraudster would most 
likely have given the door number he knew Metro Bank had. And also, because I see 
no reason why a fraudster would have continued with the call. He would have known 
that by then the funds had been moved on and found out that theyd been reported 
as fraudulently obtained. 
- Given my finding about the call Im persuaded that Mr M had knowledge of this 
money - giving for example the surname of the person involved. His explanation that 
it was from a friend didnt stack up and when asked to explain further he was silent 
on the call while Metro Bank told him that his account would be closed, and the fraud 
marker added.- Mr M knowing about the fraud is consistent with him doing nothing about this until he 
had issues with his account at another bank. He only then contacted Metro Bank to 
try to do something about the marker likely when he understood the potential 
implications for him.
So, on balance while Mr Ms account isnt an impossible one I find it implausible for the 
reasons Ive given. I consider Mr M allowed his account to be used for this fraudulent activity 
and was a witting participant. 
Metro Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr M received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Metro Bank was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Metro Bank needs to have enough information to 
make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ms account of events and the evidence Metro Bank has provided, Im 
satisfied that Metro Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr M received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Metro Bank 
at the time.
- He allowed his account to be used in this way and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Metro Bank had grounds to believe that Mr M had been involved in the movement of 
fraudulently obtained funds through his account.
I consider Metro Bank had grounds to close the account and I wont be asking it to do 
anything more. I know Mr M will be disappointed by findings.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman