DRN-3850037
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs W complain that a policy endorsement that was introduced at their policy 
renewal with Saga Services Limited wasnt properly brought to their attention or made 
sufficiently clear prior to their new period of insurance commencing.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs W held a policy with Saga, which was due for renewal on 15 July 2022. They 
received a renewal invitation with a schedule of insurance from Saga. This document was 
dated 1 July 2022 and explained that the policy was subject to several endorsements, which 
were set out in the renewal schedule.
Prior to renewing their insurance for another year with Saga, Mr S and Mrs W undertook an 
online market comparison. They say, while they found more competitive quotes online, they 
chose to remain with Saga in the interests of continuity. 
On 15 July 2022, payment for the initially months direct debit debited Mr S and Mrs Ws 
bank account. On this date they received correspondence, which they say drew their 
attention to one of the endorsements included within their policy. This endorsement related 
to artwork and required Mr S and Mrs W to provide a valuation of their art from an art 
specialist within 30 days of their renewal date. This endorsement hadnt previously been 
included on Mr S and Mrs Ws policy with Saga.
Mr S and Mrs W discussed this endorsement with Saga; they were unhappy and felt the 
endorsement was hidden within the policy documents theyd received. They also didnt think 
the wording was sufficiently clear and thought the endorsement should have been brought to 
their attention prior to renewal. So, they complained. 
Saga investigated Mr S and Mrs Ws concerns and explained it had provided advance notice 
of the endorsement as it had been referred to within renewal documentation, which had 
been sent 14 days prior to the renewal date of their policy. And it said it had also extended 
the period within which Mr S and Mrs W had to comply with the endorsement as it was 
aware they were abroad. It also said the policy had been sold on a non-advised basis. So, it 
was Mr S and Mrs Ws responsibility to ensure it was suitable to their needs. It therefore 
didnt uphold their complaint as it didnt think it had acted unfairly or done anything wrong.
Being dissatisfied with Sagas response to their complaint, Mr S and Mrs W referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what happened and thought Saga had provided clear 
information about the policy endorsements in the policy documents it had issued Mr S and 
Mrs W prior to renewal. And they felt the onus was on Mr S and Mrs W to read the 
documentation theyd received to ensure that the policy was suitable. 
Overall, our investigator thought Saga had acted reasonably in drawing the endorsement to 
Mr S and Mrs Ws attention and extending the deadline for compliance with the endorsement 
since they were abroad. So, they werent persuaded that Saga had made an error or treated 
Mr S and Mrs W unfairly. And they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. But Mr S and 
Mrs W disagreed and asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Mrs W have sent our service detailed submissions about their complaint. I want to 
assure them Ive read and considered everything that both they and Saga have sent when 
reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr S and Mrs W raised as Ive 
focused on what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr S and Mrs W wont take that 
as a discourtesy, my approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
I can appreciate that Mr S and Mrs W are disappointed with our investigators view of 
their complaint. But I agree with the approach our investigator took in assessing the 
evidence in this complaint and Im not going to uphold this complaint for reasons that Ill 
explain below.
Its clear from the available evidence that a new endorsement was introduced to Mr S and 
Mrs Ws renewed policy with Saga, which hadnt been in place previously. Mr S and Mrs 
W understandably questioned why this endorsement had been necessary and I can see 
that an explanation has been provided to them by Saga and our investigator. 
Its important to explain that Saga is an insurance intermediary here  it isnt the 
underwriter. This means that the inclusion of endorsements isnt the responsibility of 
Saga. So, this decision wont comment on whether the introduction of the endorsement 
was fair and reasonable. Concerns of that nature would need to be directed to the 
underwriter.
Mr S and Mrs W had been customers of Saga prior to their 2022 renewal. However, the 
renewal sale of their policy was conducted on a non-advised basis. So, Saga didnt 
recommend the policy or provide Mr S and Mrs W with any advice as to the suitability of 
their insurance cover. 
The fact that the sale was non-advised is crucial  this means Saga didnt need to make 
sure that the policy it sold was suitable for Mr S and Mrs Ws needs. But it did have a 
responsibility to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr S and Mrs 
W could make an informed decision on whether the policy continued to be suitable. The 
responsibility for ensuring they had the cover they required rested on Mr S and Mrs W.
Ive carefully considered whether Mr S and Mrs W were provided with clear information 
about the inclusion of a new endorsement within their policy. 
Prior to renewal, Saga sent Mr S and Mrs W a renewal invitation and schedule. This was 
sent on 1 July and Mr S and Mrs W have acknowledged receipt of this documentation. The 
renewal invitation that Mr S and Mrs W received outlines the following in clear, 
unambiguous language:
Please renew your level of cover to ensure it still meets your needs.
This is important because it enables a policyholder to make an informed decision about 
whether the policy provides adequate cover. I think this letter also makes it clear that Saga 
wouldnt provide any advice on the suitability of the policy, and that it was for Mr S and Mrs 
W to determine suitability themselves. And this is why Saga offered a cooling off period  
during which Mr S and Mrs W could cancel their policy without incurring a financial penalty.The renewal invitation goes on to stipulate in bold writing:
Please refer to the Endorsements section within the Statement of Insurance for any special 
conditions relating to your policy.
Im persuaded that this wording is transparent and ought to have led Mr S and Mrs W to 
check the schedule they received for any endorsements that might have been introduced 
and applied to their policy since the previous period of cover. 
Had Mr S and Mrs W read their renewal documentation, theyd have seen that page 6 
onwards of their renewal schedule contains a section, which is clearly labelled 
endorsements. This is prominent within the schedule and page 7 specifically states:
It is a requirement of the insurance that a valuation must be provided for the Artwork within 
30 days of Renewal. 
If this wasnt an endorsement that Mr S and Mrs W wanted to be subject to, they could have 
exercised their right not to renew or to cancel this policy without penalty during the cooling 
off period. And they could have arranged more suitable cover elsewhere. 
As its clear from the wording that an artwork valuation was required and the time within 
which this was needed, I cant agree with Mr S and Mrs Ws contention that information 
relating to the endorsement was buried within policy documentation.
On 12 July 2022, Saga issued and sent Mr S and Mrs Ws new policy documents to them. 
These documents again set out clearly that an endorsement applied to their artwork. Im 
satisfied that this constituted another opportunity within which Saga brought the 
endorsement to Mr S and Mrs Ws attention and for them to check whether cover was 
suitable prior to the policy renewing.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that unambiguous information 
about the art endorsement was provided to Mr S and Mrs W within a reasonable period prior 
to their policy renewal date to enable them to make an informed choice about whether their 
cover was suitable. For the reasons stated above, I dont accept Mr S and Mrs Ws argument 
that they were only made aware of the endorsement after their policy renewed.
I can see that Saga wrote to Mr S and Mrs W on 15 July 2022 (the day their policy renewed) 
to remind them of the artwork endorsement. This correspondence explained that cover for 
the artwork could be removed if the deadline wasnt met. Saga said it sent this as a matter of 
good business practice to ensure that a policyholder is aware of any endorsements or 
special terms because the policy is checked on the renewal date. I dont accept Mr S and 
Mrs Ws contention that this was the first time Saga brought the endorsement to their 
attention for the reasons Ive already outlined.
Mr S and Mrs W have also complained that Saga didnt provide sufficient information about 
who could value their artwork. But, as this policy was sold on a non-advised basis, I wouldnt 
expect Saga to offer Mr S and Mrs W specific information relating to the identity of any 
artwork valuers they could instruct to provide a valuation. Here, it offered generic advice, 
having checked with the underwriter, that Mr S and Mrs W should approach an art specialist 
for a valuation. I think this was helpful and evidence of good practice.
Mr S and Mrs W have also said it was unclear that theyd have to cover the cost of an art 
valuation. But I wouldnt expect an insurer to cover the cost of a valuation and there was nothing within the policy to lead to a reasonable expectation that Saga would be responsible 
for that cost.  
I can also see that, once Saga was aware Mr S and Mrs W were abroad until around 3 
August 2022, and therefore unable to comply with the endorsement deadline, it arranged an 
extension from the policy underwriter giving them 30 days to provide the valuation from 11 
August 2022. This was fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances.
I realise Mr S and Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision. But I am not upholding their 
complaint. This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve their dispute with Saga 
informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Mr S and Mrs W further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman