DRN-3293137
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that National Westminster Bank Plc has not treated them fairly 
during a period of financial difficulty by not switching their mortgage to an interest only basis.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held several accounts with NatWest including a mortgage and current 
account. Their mortgage was taken out on a capital and repayment basis.
In August 2019, the contractual monthly mortgage payment was collected from their 
NatWest current account as scheduled. But this took the current account significantly over its 
agreed overdraft.
Mr and Mrs M explained to NatWest that their circumstances and income had changed, and 
they were having some trouble making their repayments at that time. NatWest agreed a 
temporary extension of the overdraft, to accommodate the mortgage payment that had been 
made. It also agreed a payment arrangement on the mortgage, where reduced payments 
would be accepted for September and October 2019.
A meeting was held between an account manager and Mr and Mrs M in late October 2019 in 
which their financial circumstances were discussed. Following that meeting a payment 
arrangement was confirmed in writing. This was that Mr and Mrs M would pay the 
contractual monthly mortgage payment plus £1,000 extra to clear the arrears that had 
accrued while the reduced payments had been accepted. The overdraft was also to 
gradually reduce by £500 per month. NatWest also made requests in writing for evidence of 
Mr and Mrs Ms financial situation.
The payment arrangement was kept to successfully in November 2019. But, while the 
contractual monthly mortgage payment appears to have been made in December 2019 and 
January 2020, the additional payments towards the arrears were not.
NatWest wrote to Mr and Mrs M saying that the payment arrangement had been broken. 
And as a result, it began recovery action, including indicating it intended to close their bank 
accounts and recommending that they make alternative banking arrangements elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs M asked NatWest to delay the closure of their current account as they were 
looking at extending the mortgage term to make the monthly payments more affordable. 
They also indicated the income and expenditure information that theyd discussed in October 
2019 had been overly optimistic.
NatWest explained that it understood Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage term was already the 
maximum it allowed under its lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs M then asked what NatWests policy on converting the mortgage to an interest 
only basis was. They said theyd been previously led to believe that this wasnt an option. 
NatWest said a formal application and assessment would be required.
Mr and Mrs M then made a complaint. They said they had been told previously by NatWest 
that switching their mortgage to an interest only basis was not an option. They said they 
believed they met NatWests published criteria for this and that they shouldve been allowed 
to do this when they first got into difficulty, which wouldve avoided the current arrears 
position on the account. They also said theyd only agreed to the payment arrangements 
under duress and had been clear theyd try and make the payments but could not guarantee 
theyd be able to. So, they were unhappy NatWest had considered this to be a formal 
agreement.
NatWest didnt think it had made any errors in its handling of Mr and Mrs Ms accounts, so 
the complaint was referred to us.
Since March 2020 Mr and Mrs M have been making reduced payments to NatWest, 
equivalent to an interest only basis. However, NatWest has not agreed to this, so the 
mortgage is still considered to be on a capital repayment basis and therefore arrears have 
continued to accrue. This has been reported to credit reference agencies. The interest rate 
deal on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage expired in June 2021, meaning interest has since been 
charged at a higher reversion rate. And theyve said NatWest has refused to agree a new 
rate, because of the arrears position on the account, and they are unable to re-mortgage 
elsewhere, because of the adverse credit information NatWest has registered.
Mr and Mrs M say that NatWest has acted unfairly and not done what it shouldve to help 
them. So, they want our service to instruct NatWest to agree to convert their mortgage to an 
interest only basis, backdated to October 2019, remove all adverse information from their 
credit file and reduce the interest that has been charged since July 2021, on the basis a new 
interest rate would otherwise have been agreed.
One of our Investigators looked into matters. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He felt NatWest had engaged with Mr and Mrs M and agreed appropriate arrangements with 
them based on the information it had been provided. And he didnt think NatWest was wrong 
to decline the request to switch the mortgage to an interest only basis.
Mr and Mrs M asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have said that they were interested in switching their mortgage to an interest 
only basis when they first got into difficulties in August 2019. But NatWest told them this 
wasnt possible and repeated this in the face to face meeting in October 2019.
NatWest has provided system notes which it says reflect the conversation that took place 
before the first repayment arrangement  where NatWest agreed to extend Mr and Mrs Ms 
overdraft and to accept reduced mortgage repayments for two months. There is no mention 
in those notes or indeed in the emails that followed shortly after this, to indicate that any 
enquiries were made about moving the mortgage to interest only.
NatWest has also provided a summary of the meeting that took place in October 2019, as 
recorded by its staff member. The document is a detailed account of the discussions, 
stretching to several pages. This also doesnt mention a switch to interest only being 
discussed. All of these notes indicate that Mr and Mrs M considered their difficulties to be short term 
and that they hoped to be back on track by the end of 2019.
Mr and Mrs M have said they believe NatWests records to be incomplete, in particular the 
meeting notes, and have said they dont reflect the discussion as they remember it. And 
theyve said they were told that a switch to interest only was not something NatWest offered.
I dont know for certain what was discussed. So, I have to think about what, on balance, 
given the evidence that is available, I believe is most likely. 
There were a number of emails between Mr and Mrs M and NatWest following the meeting 
in October 2019. These related to the repayment arrangement, the plans for how this would 
be funded and requests by NatWest for evidence of income. The first mention of any long-
term change to the mortgage wasnt until late January 2020, where Mr and Mrs M mentioned 
considering a term extension, as their income had not reached the levels they anticipated in 
October 2019. I can see NatWest explained that theyd have to discuss this with a mortgage 
advisor but highlighted that Mr and Mrs Ms term already appeared to be the maximum it 
usually allowed. The first mention I can see of changing the mortgage to interest only then 
followed this exchange - in February 2020. 
If a change to interest only was discussed sooner than this, Id have expected to have seen 
some mention of this in the emails. In particular the emails where Mr and Mrs M said they 
were unhappy that the payment arrangement agreed in October 2019 had been considered 
formal, when they understood it was on a best endeavours basis.
With this in mind, I dont think I can reasonably say, on balance, switching the mortgage to 
interest only was incorrectly disregarded by NatWest during the initial discussions. This 
doesnt seem to have been something that was explored at the time, as Mr and Mrs M 
appear to have considered their difficulties to likely be short term. 
Looking at the help that NatWest did provide to Mr and Mrs M, I think it has acted 
reasonably. There isnt a set requirement on the actions a lender must take when it is 
informed of financial difficulties. Rather it needs to look at the individual circumstances and 
act fairly. But it doesnt simply have to agree to what an account holder asks and is entitled 
to make enquiries about their circumstances.
Here NatWest agreed to accept reduced payments to the mortgage for a couple of months 
as well as extending Mr and Mrs Ms overdraft temporarily. Im satisfied that was fair. 
It transferred their accounts to the care of a specialist department and discussed a 
repayment plan with Mr and Mrs M to get the mortgage back on track, in the meeting in 
October 2019. Mr and Mrs M have said that they were given an ultimatum that they had to 
make payments at the level discussed.  And they say they only agreed to do so on a best 
endeavours basis and feel this shouldnt have been considered a formal repayment plan. 
I dont think NatWest was wrong to want to put in place a formal arrangement to get the 
accounts back on track. And I think it was clear to Mr and Mrs M in the correspondence that 
followed the meeting this was what it considered to have been agreed. None of the 
information from the point the arrangement was made seems to indicate Mr and Mrs M were 
unhappy with it at the time. It seems to be they only raised concerns after this arrangement 
had failed  at which time they said they felt their estimates of income and expenditure 
mightve been too optimistic.
While the arrangement was in place, I can see that NatWest requested information and 
evidence from Mr and Mrs M about their circumstances. Which I think was reasonable. But it seems a lot of the evidence requested was not provided.
Once the payment arrangement was broken, NatWest issued correspondence saying it 
intended to commence recovery action and that it was withdrawing banking facilities. It could 
be argued that more couldve been done at that point to agree alternative arrangements. But 
as Ive mentioned, requests for evidence around Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances had gone 
unanswered. And indeed, after Mr and Mrs M objected to the demand and explained they 
intended to make lump sum payments, NatWest again asked for some written confirmation 
of this that wasnt forthcoming. So even if NatWest had attempted to do more at that time, 
Im not sure that any further arrangement wouldve been reached.
So overall, I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly in how it handled Mr and Mrs Ms 
accounts after being informed of their financial difficulties.
Ive thought about whether NatWest acted unreasonably by not switching the mortgage to an 
interest only basis once this was mention in February 2020. 
There seems to have been some miscommunication over how an application would need to 
be made, with the relationship managers at NatWest saying Mr and Mrs M needed to 
contact a mortgage adviser. But Mr and Mrs M said they were referred back to the 
relationship managers. This breakdown in communication is unfortunate. But ultimately, I 
cant see that a formal application was made for this change to the mortgage to take place.
NatWest has said that changing the mortgage to an interest only basis wouldve involved a 
new mortgage application and a full assessment of the circumstances, including affordability 
and the intended repayment vehicle. I think this is reasonable. And I dont think were any 
grounds, in the circumstances of this request, on which NatWest ought to have set aside its 
usual lending criteria. 
Mr and Mrs M have said they think they meet the criteria NatWest set out on its website 
about interest only mortgages. And theyve continued to make payments equivalent to those 
required on an interest only basis since the dispute began. So, they believe the switch 
shouldve been made. But I dont agree.
As Ive said, I think it is reasonable that NatWest would undertake a full mortgage 
assessment  something that has not happened. And things NatWest wouldve needed to 
consider when looking at an application would not solely be limited to the outline conditions 
on its website. These were likely to include whether the mortgage was up to date  which it 
wasnt  and plans for addressing this  which there werent at the time with the previous 
arrangement having been broken. As well as an assessment of the plan to repay the 
mortgage and whether this was acceptable.
While Mr and Mrs M have said they think they meet the criteria, as Ive mentioned, despite 
several requests by NatWest for evidence to support things Mr and Mrs M have said about 
their finances, information has not been forthcoming. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs M have 
been making payments  albeit without the change having been agreed. But NatWest has to 
ensure it acts responsibly. And making payments to the mortgage doesnt mean that it is 
affordable to do so over the longer term or that Mr and Mrs M would satisfy all of NatWests 
criteria around affordability.
So, I dont think NatWest has acted unreasonably by not switching the mortgage to an 
interest only basis. I dont think it needed to do this without a proper assessment. And it 
hasnt been given the opportunity to carry one out.
Mr and Mrs M have paid less than the contractual monthly repayments since March 2020. I understand theyve done this as theyve said they wanted to switch the mortgage to an 
interest only basis, so have paid an equivalent amount. But that change has not been 
agreed. So, the payments were less than contractually required. As a result, I think NatWest 
acted fairly by recording information with credit reference agencies to reflect this.
Mr and Mrs M have also said that their interest rate has increased, as a result of their 
previous interest rate deal ending. But I havent seen anything that leads me to think the 
increase was not in line with the mortgage agreement.
Taking everything into account, I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
how it has handled Mr and Mrs Ms accounts.
Moving forward, I understand there is now a significant arrears balance on the mortgage. 
And NatWest is considering further recovery action, via the courts. I would remind NatWest 
that possession proceedings should be a last resort. I can understand why it thinks there is 
now no alternative. As there has been little engagement for over a year and the arrears 
balance is now significant.
I do think though at least some of the deterioration in the overall position has been due to 
both parties awaiting the outcome of this complaint. Before proceeding with legal action, Id 
expect NatWest to contact Mr and Mrs M, to see if there any remaining alternative options 
now available. I appreciate these may be limited. But I think they should be explored. Id add 
though that, Mr and Mrs M would also need to engage with NatWest and importantly provide 
evidence, when requested, to support any suggested plans. And if this is not forthcoming, I 
think NatWest would fairly be entitled to decide how to pursue the matter further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman