DRN-2923379
The complaint
Miss W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) concerning a solar panel 
system, which she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around May 2016, a representative of a company Ill call P contacted Miss W to talk 
about buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After a visit 
from a representative of P, Miss W decided to buy the system and to finance it through a 15-
year fixed-sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In August 2019 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Miss Ws behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that P had cold-called Miss W, and had made a number of 
representations about the system which had turned out not to be true. And it said it was 
these misrepresentations that had induced Miss W to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was shown as £8,999 to mislead Miss W, since when 
interest was added, the total cost was £17,216;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayment costs.
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response letter, so Miss W referred her complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
the quote clearly showed the total cost of the system as £8,999 and it believes this 
was misleading;
the quote showed the system as paying for itself in 14 years, which it says supports 
what it says about Miss W having been told that the system would be self-funding;
Miss W relied on the verbal representations made by the salesperson, rather than the 
paperwork; and
similar complaints have been upheld and it doesnt believe that this case was 
substantially different.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Miss W paid for the system with a fixed-sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This allows Miss W to claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way that she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss W 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party, which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive looked at these in detail and have considered whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and that it is therefore relevant, alongside 
Miss Ws recollection of the sale, when considering whether there were any untrue 
statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest rate to be charged, 
the total charge for credit, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods.
The CMC says that the cost of the system was shown as £8,999. It says that this was 
designed to mislead Miss W, as the figure didnt include any interest on the loan. So it 
considers that it hid the true cost of the system, which was £17,216.Im satisfied that the quote provided to Miss W makes it clear that the cash cost of the 
system was £8,999. This is supported by the credit agreement which shows the total cash 
price as £8,999, and the total amount of credit as £8,899, as Miss W paid a £100 deposit. 
But it then goes on to show the total charge for the credit as £8,217 and that the total 
amount payable as £17,216.
The quote is also clear that thered be a monthly loan repayment due, as set out in the table 
below. So Im satisfied that the quote and the credit agreement made it clear that although 
the cash price of the system was £8,999, it would cost Miss W more than this, as shed 
decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments
Miss W has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded, by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
whether this supports what Miss W has said.
The System Analysis section of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss W could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss W could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £132.74.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss W could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity saving is £228.79. Taking into account the optional extra 
which Miss W chose, the combined income and savings figure for year one is shown as 
£467.13. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables, showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Miss W entered into with Shawbrook. This shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £95.09. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and, in the last column, subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £95.09, to give an average 
difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in 
each year.
I think the quote clearly sets out the return Miss W could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, and the monthly loan repayments that would be due. 
I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments. But it does clearly show that the overall return she could expect to receive, by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not immediately be enough to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Im satisfied that Ps representative would have taken Miss W 
though the quote. And Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly loan repayments 
would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss W that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above, which sets out the estimated average monthly return from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that thered be a difference between the expected return and the 
monthly loan repayments, and that the expected return wouldnt be enough to cover the 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Miss W was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The quote includes a table headed Estimated performance over 30 years. This shows that it 
was estimated that at some point between year 20 and year 25 the overall benefits that 
Miss W could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the 
loan agreement.
As Ive said above, Im satisfied that P told Miss W that the system would pay for itself 
between year 20 and year 25, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and if I were satisfied that this was what induced Miss W to enter into the 
contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system, and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Miss W. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 1,959 kWh a year.
I have looked at Miss Ws FIT statements and can see that her system has, on average, 
generated 1,892 kWh. Although this is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
Im satisfied that the system is performing, within a reasonable tolerance, as expected.
Ive also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. Im 
satisfied that Ps methods for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. Ive looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than P predicted at the point of sale. I think this 
explains why Miss W hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the return achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2006 and 2015. And based on this, I dont consider that it was 
unreasonable for P to use them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income 
Miss W could expect from the system. So while I appreciate that the return may not have 
been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to P 
using unreasonable assumptions when Miss W entered into the contract.
Points raised after the view
The CMC reiterated some of the points it had previously made a number of further points 
after the investigator issued their view. These included:
The quote showed the system as paying for itself in 14 years which supports its 
assertion that Miss W was told that the system would be self-funding;
Miss W relied on the verbal representations made by the salesperson, rather than the 
paperwork; and
Similar complaints had been upheld and it didnt agree that this case was 
substantially different.
Ive considered each of these points carefully. Its true that the quote shows the estimated 
payback time as 14 years. But Im satisfied that its clear that this is based on the cash 
purchase of the system. In this case, Miss W decided to pay for the system through an 
interest-bearing loan. So it would take longer for her system to pay for itself.
P, via Shawbrook, has provided the sales process that its salespeople would have followed. 
Its clear from this that the quote would have formed a central part of the process. Im 
satisfied that the quote makes it clear that the system wouldnt be immediately self-funding, 
and that the FIT payments wouldnt cover the loan repayments. The salesperson would have 
discussed the quote with Miss W. And Im not persuaded that the salesperson would have 
verbally represented the system in a way that contradicted what was so clearly set out in the 
quote.I acknowledge that the CMC continues to question whether the quote document formed a 
central part of the sales process with P. Ive carefully considered the points that the CMCs 
made, along with those made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain 
satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Miss W agreed 
to enter into the contract.
While similar complaints may have been upheld by this service, my role is to determine each 
complaint on its individual circumstances.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that P didnt make any untrue statement of fact that induced Miss W to enter into 
the contract for the system. And Ive found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman