DRN-3029216
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2002. Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. 
Mr B has said the PPI was sold at a meeting, but RBS says he took the PPI when he applied 
for his card by post  and RBS has sent us a copy of Mr Bs postal application showing this.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint, but my colleague thought RBSs offer 
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission 
and profit share Mr B paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Bs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided RBS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that RBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think RBS made it clear Mr B didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. I say 
this because Mr B hasnt said anything to make me think this wasnt made clear. Also, 
his postal application form for the card had a separate Payment Protection section with 
a box for him to tick if he wanted the PPI - and nothing on the form said the PPI had to 
be taken. On Mr Bs form, which he signed to take the card, the PPI box is ticked  and I 
think he wouldve known that if he didnt want the cover the box for it shouldnt be ticked.
RBS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B. Mr B says RBS did recommend it to him 
 at a meeting. But aside from his recollections, Ive nothing else to suggest RBS gave 
Mr B a personal recommendation to buy the cover or led him to believe it was offering to 
take account of his circumstances and give him advice on the suitability of the cover for 
him. Also, from what Ive seen, Mr B bought the PPI by post. With all this in mind, what I 
have doesnt persuade me RBS gave advice. I think it more likely the PPI was sold on a 
non-advised basis. The means RBS didnt have to check the PPI was right or suitable for 
Mr B, but it did have to give Mr B enough clear and timely information so he could decide 
for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But his application form told him the PPI was to protect his card payments in case 
of accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment - and he chose to take the cover, so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover. It also looks like it was affordable. Also, given the 
benefit it offered, the PPI couldve been useful if Mr B couldnt work for a time as, from 
what hes told us, he was only entitled to statutory sick pay if he couldnt work and, in 
that situation, the PPI could pay out for longer than its likely his savings would last.
Also, Mr B wasnt significantly affected by the limitations or exclusions on cover. The 
policy had an exclusion for pre-existing health issues, but what I have doesnt suggest 
Mr B wouldve thought hed miss work in future due to the injury hed had treated more 
than ten years earlier and he hasnt told us of any other or more recent health issues. 
Nothing about his job or employment wouldve made it hard for him to claim either. In the 
light of this and all Ive said above, I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for 
Mr B or too dissimilar to what its likely he thought he was buying from the information he 
was given. With all this in mind, I dont think he wouldve declined the cover it had RBS 
done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. So on balance 
I think he wouldve still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mr B wouldve still taken the PPI. Given his circumstances at the time, it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at what could be a difficult a time were he to have lost his 
job or become too sick to work. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely 
he thought he was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve taken the policy 
in any event.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant RBS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided RBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
RBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
RBS didnt tell Mr B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
RBS and Mr B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because RBS 
didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think RBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B, because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Bs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr B should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: RBS failed to tell Mr B about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr B wouldnt have taken the policy had he 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipknown about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr B 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by RBS not disclosing the high level of commission 
to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for RBSs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for RBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr B paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr B 
with the policy Ive concluded above he wouldve still taken if RBS had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that RBSs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. I gather 
RBS may already have been in touch with Mr B about this a while ago in 2018 or 2019.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Bs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr B an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) - if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman