DRN-4220046
The complaint
Mr M complains that his loan was defaulted by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
In January 2020, Mr M borrowed £12,000 on a personal loan from Santander. It was payable 
over 60 months at £301.06 per month. In 2021, he ran into financial difficulty. He had a 
payment break due to the pandemic, and then left his job at the end of 2021. In March 2022, 
Santander agreed to a payment plan with monthly payments of £50. Mr M made payments 
of £50 on 1 April 2022, 1 May 2022, and 1 June 2022.
On 14 June 2022, Santander sent a Notice of Default with the balance at £11,383 and 
arrears of £1,957. On 18 July 2022, Santander defaulted the loan with the balance £11,520 
and arrears £2,258. In July 2022, the debt was passed to a debt collection agency (DCA) to 
manage.
Mr M complained. He said he had no idea that the payment plan would lead to a default. He 
had kept up the payments of £50, so the default was unfair. And  he started work again in 
February 2022, so could afford to go back to the contractual payments anyway. He said he 
didnt get the Notice of Default. He said the default was unfair and should be removed.
Santander said theyd looked at Mr Ms income and expenditure form and considered he 
couldnt afford the repayments of £300 per month. They sent a Notice of Default on 14 June 
2022 and as no alternative arrangements were made within 28 days of it, they defaulted the 
loan and pass it to a DCA.
Mr M didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator issued two views. The 
first one didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that by March 2022, Mr M was already three 
months in arrears. And as £50 per month (then agreed) didnt meet the amount needed 
under the loan agreement, more arrears built up after that. The budget plan completed in 
July 2022 showed Mr M could afford £89 per month  which wasnt enough to clear the 
arrears and resume payments at the original amount. So  Santander defaulted the account 
 when the loan was six months in arrears.
Our investigator then reconsidered the evidence and said that Santander shouldve realised 
in March 2022 that Mr M was already three months in arrears. But Santander still agreed to 
a payment plan which made for three months at £50 per month and to be reviewed in June 
2022  after which he could remain on the payment plan at £50 per month for another three 
months (to September 2022). He could then return to normal payments. Because Santander 
didnt take account of Mr Ms existing arrears, he said they should pay compensation of 
£100. But  he said the default was still fair as Mr M had six months arrears by June 2022.
Mr M didnt agree  he said the default should be removed. He thought he was on a 
payment plan with a view to returning to full payments (or reduced payments) over a period. 
He said he was never made aware of the potential for default because of being on the 
payment plan. He also said Santander should offer him an interest free loan to help him 
repay it.
Mr M asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to do that.
I issued a first provisional decision which said:
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is  what happened in March 2022, and what did Santander 
advise him at the time.
I can see that by March 2022, Mr M was in arrears by £1,204  about four months worth of 
payments. Santanders records show he completed an income and expenditure form then 
which showed a deficit of £60 per month. Mr M has shown us that he returned to work in 
February 2022  so he says he was aiming to get back on his feet after that. He showed us 
he was receiving a net income of about £3,000 per month with effect from March 2022  so I 
can see why he was aiming to put things back in order with Santander and his other 
creditors.
The call on 4 March 2022 is important and I listened to it. Mr M explained that he had 
returned to work. He had submitted a revised budget planner online in the last few days.
This showed his new income of £3,200 each month  but a deficit of £60 was still shown 
after all expenditure was taken into account. Santanders call handler clearly described what 
Santander offered. She said Santander could offer a payment plan for three months (i.e. to 
the end of June 2022); and it could then be extended for another three months (i.e. to 
September 2022). She said that after that time, a further 18 months could be allowed for Mr 
M to make increased payments and to clear the arrears. She went on to quote that payment 
of the arrears (then £1,204) over 21 months would mean Mr M could pay them off at £57.34 
each month. 
So  she said that from March 2022, Mr M could have a 24-month payment plan. This was to 
start with three payments of £50 on 1 April 2022, 1 May 2022 and then 1 June 2022  and 
Mr M was then to call Santander to discuss the further 21-month arrangement. The call 
handler repeated  that the arrears would then be cleared over a further 21 months, giving a 
payment plan of 24 months. Mr M agreed to pay £50 each month on the call. The notes on 
Mr Ms file record ..can have 24-month arrangement
She said a letter confirming the agreement would be sent in the post  but I cant see this 
was done. 
So  I can see why Mr M thought he was on an agreed long term payment plan at £50 per 
month and was therefore surprised to receive the Notice of Default dated 14 June 2022, and 
then the actual default letter in July 2022.
I looked at the letters sent to Mr M about his loan  and many were sent about the arrears 
that were increasing in 2021, and there were four letters about the arrears sent between 
January 2022 and February 2022.  But  I set these aside for the purposes of this complaint 
 because it is what happened in March 2022  and the agreement to a payment plan which 
is important here. 
The payment plan was agreed to on 4 March 2022  but I cant see that Santander sent 
anything to Mr M after that time to confirm the payment plan, or its terms  for example, to 
say that arrears would continue to increase, that CRAs would be advised or that a default 
might follow because of the arrears. It wouldve been reasonable to expect the 
communication to be clear and not misleading about the plan - but on the evidence Ive 
looked at, there werent any. So  I can see why Mr M didnt realise a default might happen. 
There werent any letters sent to Mr M after 4 March 2022 until one on 3 June 2022. And this letter said, Thank you for your payment towards the arrears on your Santander personal 
loan. So  taken with the call on 4 March 2022, I can see why Mr M would think this was a 
continuation of the payment plan discussed and agreed to then.
The next communication with Mr M was when Santander wrote to him  with the Notice of 
Default on 14 June 2022 and then the letter of default on 18 July 2022. Mr M then called 
Santander and completed a further budget planner  which showed he had a surplus of £89 
each month. Santander said that wasnt enough to increase his payments and proceeded 
with default processes. Mr M says this wasnt fair because of the call on 4 March 2022  he 
says if he had known, he could have made the payment from his income, or borrowed from 
friends and family. And I think its reasonable to say that by the time Mr M called Santander 
(on 27 June 2022), matters had moved on and it was too late for Mr M to have done 
anything about the Notice of Default he had just received  as he had been depending on 
the knowledge that he had a payment plan  since 4 March 2022. He had made the 
payments of £50 each month since then.
I must consider here  whether the call on 4 March 2022 was a firm agreement from 
Santander, and whether Mr M could rely on it. And  on the balance of evidence and in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think it was. It was a detailed call and Santanders call 
handler confidently spelt out the 24-month arrangement. And there wasnt anything sent in 
writing to say (for example) that that the arrangement might not happen, that arrears would 
accrue or lead to a default. If there had been, my provisional decision might be different. So 
 I think Mr M was entitled to think the loan wouldnt be defaulted.
Mr M has asked that Santander agree to a zero-interest loan to help him repay it, but 
Santander have said they dont offer that, which I accept.
Therefore, my provisional decision is that Santander should:
- Remove the default dated July 2022, and any other adverse information since that 
time from Mr Ms credit file.
- Take the loan back from the DCA and agree a mutually satisfactory repayment plan 
with Mr M. Mr M must be certain he can now afford to meet the contractual payments 
to the loan  because if he cant then he may default again. And any default would 
last for six years from that future date. Mr M has said to us that he can afford to 
return to the contractual repayments  so subject to what Santander agree, that looks 
to be a good alternative here.
As our investigator has recommended, pay compensation of £100 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr M accepted what I said, but Santander didnt. They said:
The budget planner that Mr M completed in March 2022 showed he couldnt afford 
the repayments of £301.06 per month.
When he called Santander on 4 March 2022, he was already four months in arrears. 
Mr M said he couldnt afford to recommence the full payments but a reduced 
payment plan of £50 per month was agreed to for three months. And after that time, 
this might be extended for up to total of 24 months  but this would be to clear the 
arrears over that period.
The call handler said that arrears would still build up as the contractual payments 
werent being made.A reduced payment plan was agreed for three months  to June 2022, after which Mr 
M was to call Santander again. The call handler said that if the arrangement was 
broken or where it came to an end, then a default may be registered.
Importantly, Mr M was sent a letter dated 4 March 2022  which confirmed this 
arrangement. Santander have now shown this to us for the first time.
Mr M was sent a further letter on 3 June 2022  with the arrears at £1957.42. It said 
that credit reference agencies would be advised. Mr M as asked to contact 
Santander within seven days to discuss repayments. But  he didnt call Santander 
until 27 June 2022 (three weeks later), by which time a default notice had been sent 
to him (dated 14 June 2022).
When Mr M did call Santander on 27 June 2022, he was advised of the 
consequences of defaulting on the loan  and the effect on his credit file for six 
years. 
Mr M contacted Santander again until 2 July 2022  when he was locked out of his 
budget planner. He was asked to get back in touch when he could.
Mr M didnt contact Santander again until 14 July 2022  almost two weeks later. By 
then, there were seven months arrears. If Mr M couldve borrowed funds from 
friends and family (even at that late stage), then the default couldve been 
prevented. 
I now need to consider this new evidence and come to a further decision.
Santander have come forward with evidence theyd not put to us before. But  it is part of 
our process that both or either party to a complaint can provide more information in response 
to a provisional decision. And after considering it, my provisional decision is changed.
I think that on balance Santander did make Mr M aware of his situation and :
- Advised him that he could pay the arrears off over 24 months  and not have an 
ongoing payment plan of £50 per month over that period.
- The letter dated 4 March 2022 sent to Mr M (and now evidenced) persuades me to 
say that overall,  communications were clear and not misleading. The letter dated 4 
March 2022 confirmed the telephone conversation and said, we confirm your 
repayment of £50 on 1/4/22 and further payments as agreed.please contact us at 
the end of this initial arrangement so we can agree the repayment of the remaining 
amount..a record of this arrangement may be sent to the credit reference agencies 
we share data with. 
- The letter date 3 June 2022 then said, we now need to pay the rest of the 
outstanding amount if you cant make payment, then please call us in the next 7 
daysplease note we share information about your account with credit reference 
agencies.  
- As Santander have said, Mr M didnt call them again until 27 June 2022  three 
weeks later  when Santander had asked that he contact them within seven days.  
But by that time, Santander had sent him the Notice of Default, and matters had 
moved on. I can see from Santanders notes that Mr M was then advised of the 
potential for default and the effect on his credit file.
- Mr M called Santander on 2 July 2022  (as he was locked out of his budget planner 
and was asked to re-contact them again)  but he didnt call again until 14 July 2022, 
almost two weeks later.
- On 14 July 2022, Mr M called Santander and said he couldnt afford to pay £188 per month  the minimum needed. Mr M wanted an interest  free loan instead, which 
Santander declined to agree to. Mr M then complained.
As the first provisional decision said, I could see how Mr M may have thought he had an 
ongoing, longer-term arrangement of £50 per month for up to 24 months. But having 
reviewed the balance of everything, including the new evidence now submitted, Im satisfied 
that Santander made him aware:
- That the arrears could be repaid over 24 months, and a payment plan for £50 per 
month wasnt being offered.
- There was a potential to default and that credit reference agencies would be advised.
- That Mr M needed to call Santander again at the end of the three months payment 
plan  in June 2022 - to discuss what could then happen.
- Santander wrote to Mr M on 3 June 2022 and asked him to get in touch within seven 
days, but Mr M didnt do that. 
- That on 27 June 2022, Santander advised Mr M of the potential for default, and 
asked him to get back in touch.
- Santander said Mr M needed to pay £188 per month to avoid a default, Mr M couldnt 
afford to pay that and he asked for an interest-free loan and complained.
Therefore, in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, I now think Santander acted 
reasonably  and this second provisional decision is that they dont need to do anything 
here. 
Responses to the second provisional decision:
Santander accepted the findings, but Mr M didnt. He said:
He repeated he was misled by Santander and the best solution would be to remove 
the default and he repay the loan at commercial rates. As it stands, Santander wont 
get paid any interest and will get less income  which doesnt make sense. He said 
he is now struggling with mortgage payments after the increases in mortgage rates.
He said he was in financial difficulty and unable to work after being signed off by a 
doctor. He feels Santander didnt take that into consideration at the time.
I now need to consider the points made and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On Mr Ms first point  I acknowledge what the says, but he will benefit by not paying interest 
on the loan with the debt collection agency. If he is now struggling because of increased 
mortgage payments, he must put his new situation (and his income/expenditure) to the debt 
collection agency for them to consider.
On his second point  this was the crux of his complaint and I considered how Santander 
treated him because of being off work. And Im satisfied that in giving him periods of reduced payments; and giving him the option of a 24-month period to pay off the arrears  they did 
treat him reasonably. Thats in line with what we would expect firms to do when customers 
experience financial difficulty. 
But  where reduced payments are agreed below the contractual amount needed, that can 
mean that after a period of arrears, a default can be registered. This is normally between 
three and six months. And in Mr Ms case he was more than six months in arrears. So here  
Im satisfied that Santander operated within the guidance for dealing with customers in 
financial difficulty.
Therefore, having considered Mr Ms points, my final decision is unchanged from the second 
provisional decision. And Santander dont have to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman