DRN-3038316
The complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement amount that LeasePlan UK Limited invoiced him 
when a hire agreement for a vehicle he had with it ended. He is also unhappy that some 
repairs to the car werent authorised despite there being a maintenance package with the 
hire agreement.
What happened
In December 2013 Mr C entered into a two-year hire agreement with LeasePlan for a 
new vehicle. When the agreement reached maturity, it was agreed that the hire period 
would be extended.
The original hire agreement had an annual mileage limit of 20,000 and had an excess 
mileage fee of 12.82 per mile. The monthly rental was around £275 and there was 
included in that cost a comprehensive maintenance agreement which covered repairs to 
the car including items such as the brakes and tyres. The hire agreement was extended 
under the same terms.
In or around 2017 LeasePlan said that due to the age of the vehicle it was no longer 
economical for it to be maintained and asked Mr C to arrange for the vehicle to be 
returned and the agreement terminated. Mr C said he would like to keep the vehicle and 
asked a Driver to buy quote.
However, Mr C decided not to proceed with purchasing the vehicle when he received the 
settlement quote as it included an additional amount of around £10,000 to cover the 
excess mileage fee. He kept the vehicle on lease.
The vehicle required maintenance and repairs which were authorised by LeasePlan. 
However, Mr C says that repairs were required to the clutch and to the DPF which 
werent approved by LeasePlan and he had to meet the cost of this work himself. He 
says these repairs were undertaken in or around April and May 2019.
In or around May 2019 LeasePlan again contacted Mr C about terminating the agreement 
and it said it was ending the maintenance agreement. Mr C continued to keep the vehicle on 
lease but in August 2019 it was involved in an accident and written off. Mr Cs insurers paid 
out a settlement for the vehicle but LeasePlan said this amount left a shortfall that Mr C 
needed to clear and that in addition he owed for the excess mileage, LeasePlan invoiced Mr 
C for around £31,000.
Mr C complained to this service about both the end of contract charges and that 
LeasePlan had declined repairs to the vehicle that he had to cover. During our 
investigators investigations LeasePlan offered to reduce the outstanding excess mileage 
fee and waive the shortfall leaving Mr C to pay around £15,000 to clear his account 
balance.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Cs complaint should be partially upheld. She said 
in these particular circumstances she didnt think it would be fair for LeasePlan to charge 
Mr C for the excess mileage. This was because under the terms and conditions of the 
agreement if the vehicle was written off then LeasePlan will request its full retail 
replacement value. So, once the settlement from the insurer had been received 
LeasePlan would have been in the same position as if the car had been returned, 
meaning charging for the excess mileage would be gaining a profit. Excess mileage fees 
are to compensate for the loss of value that high mileage causes.
However, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint about having to pay for repairs 
to the car himself. She said the evidence showed Mr C hadnt followed the correct 
process in getting this work undertaken and it was reasonable for LeasePlan to decline 
to reimburse him.
Finally, our investigator recommended that Mr C should receive £100 as compensation 
for the level of service LeasePlan had provided to him and the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience this had caused.
Mr C agreed with most of our investigators view but said that LeasePlan had been aware 
of the repairs that had been required to the clutch and had unfairly declined to authorise 
those necessary repairs.
LeasePlan asked for time to consider whether it wished to respond to the writing off the 
excess mileage charges and it expressed concern about the size of the excess that was 
involved. LeasePlan hasnt provided details of what approach it would think of as being 
fair.
As the parties hadnt been able to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me and 
I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
Even though LeasePlan hadnt set out in detail why it thought writing off all the excess 
mileage charge would be unfair that didnt mean that I could assume it agreed with the 
outcome recommended by our investigator. When deciding what I thought was a fair and 
objective outcome for Mr Cs complaint, I looked at all the evidence that had been 
provided and reached my own view.
Id seen that Mr C hired this vehicle for nearly six years. Id also seen that in that time 
LeasePlan had spent over the expected budget set by it for the vehicles maintenance 
and repairs. I accepted the vehicle had beome uneconomical for LeasePlan, who were 
keen to terminate the agreement. It had removed the agreement for the maintenance 
and repair of the vehicle in May 2019 which was in line with the agreements terms and 
conditions. 
Id also seen that the hire agreement had a mileage limit of 20,000 miles per year 
which Mr C had substantially exceeded. At the time the vehicle was written off the 
vehicle had a mileage of around 232,000 as opposed to an expected mileage (had Mr 
C not exceeded the annual mileage limit set in the agreement) of 114,000.
Due to the size of the excess mileage at the point the agreement was terminated 
following the vehicle being written, LeasePlan had added a large excess mileage fee to 
Mr Cs account. LeasePlan then invoiced Mr C for both the excess mileage fee and the 
shortfall it said had arisen from the insurers settlement.
Dealing with the excess mileage fee first, I accepted that annual mileage limits were a 
usual term and condition of a vehicle hire agreement. This was because the finance 
company will have estimated the resale value of the vehicle at the end of the credit 
agreement based on a number of factors such as it being in a good condition and with a particular mileage limit. But if the vehicles expected mileage limit was exceeded, then this 
it was very likely to have a negative impact on the estimated value leaving the credit 
company facing a loss. The excess mileage fee therefore allowed the credit company to 
cover this loss.
However, here the vehicle wasnt returned and sold because it had been written off. 
Instead Mr Cs insurer paid a settlement figure for the car to LeasePlan. Under the terms 
and conditions of the agreement it says that where a car is stolen or written off then Mr C 
must make a claim for the full retail replacement value without deduction.
Id seen in the notes that LeasePlan had provided, that Mr Cs insurer had queried the 
settlement figure for the vehicle provided by LeasePlan which had been set at £10,330 as 
it said the vehicle was worth a trade-in figure of around £2,200 plus VAT with a retail figure 
of £4745 plus VAT. LeasePlan had responded that the settlement figure was based on the 
expected value of the vehicle if the mileage had been as per the limit set in the agreement 
and not on the true mileage figure of the vehicle which was over 100,000 miles more. 
LeasePlan told Mr Cs insurers that it would be for Mr C to make up any shortfall in the 
value of the car due to its excessive mileage. Mr Cs insurers provided a settlement 
amount of £3,361.
I have looked at the same industry guide as Mr Cs insurers to ascertain the value of the 
vehicle with a mileage of around 114,000 which was the mileage the vehicle would have 
had if Mr C hadnt exceeded the mileage limit. This showed the vehicle had a trade-in 
value of £4,861 and a retail price of £7,211 so I was unclear where the figure of £10,330 
was obtained from and I thought it was too high.
I accepted that the settlement figure received by LeasePlan from Mr Cs insurance 
company would have meant it had incurred a loss. This was because, despite disagreeing 
that the car would have been worth £10,330, I thought it would have been worth more than 
£3,361 had its mileage been lower. So, I thought it was more likely than not that this loss 
was due to Mr C having substantially exceeded the mileage limit of 20,000 miles per year 
while it was in his possession. And I thought it would be fair for Mr C to reimburse 
LeasePlan the loss of that expected value, but I didnt think that it was fair he was charged 
over £15,000 for it. It was clear that LeasePlan hadnt lost £15,000 from the expected 
value of the vehicle at the time it was written off.
Id seen that Mr Cs insurers paid around the middle of the trade-in and retail values for 
the vehicle with the higher mileage. I thought it would be reasonable to consider that had 
the vehicle had the lower mileage of 114,000 then it would have been worth around 
£6000. I think it would be reasonable to assess the loss as to LeasePlan as being £2,500 
and that it would be fair for Mr C to pay LeasePlan that amount for the excess mileage.
In regard to the repairs that Mr C was requesting wee reimbursed, although there were two 
repairs paid for by Mr C, he had only been able to provide one invoice which was for the 
repairs carried out on the clutch. Without an invoice I didnt know what was repaired, by 
which garage or at what cost and Id seen that Mr C accepted that, in the circumstances, the 
repair that he couldnt produce an invoice for couldnt now be reimbursed.
However, in respect of the clutch, Mr C said that LeasePlan had been aware that this 
needed work as it was highlighted in a report undertaken by an approved garage in 
October 2018. In this report the clutch had been described as heavy under the 
additional items section with an identified cost of £1,105. Mr C said that LeasePlan had 
declined to authorise this particular repair due to the cost, although it had agreed to the 
other items also set out in the report. LeasePlan said that the approved garage hadnt 
sought authorisation for any repair to the clutch at that time nor had the garage that subsequently carried out the repair. LeasePlan said that, had the second garage sought 
its approval, this would have been declined as this particular garage wasnt one approved 
by LeasePlan and it would have advised Mr C to use the approved repair process and go 
to a recognised garage.
Mr C said that because authorisation hadnt been given, he had no choice but to take the 
vehicle to another garage. Id seen that the clutch was repaired in April 2019 so around 
six months after the inspection.
Looking at the work history of the repairs undertaken on the vehicle under the 
maintenance agreement, Id seen that services, MOTs and repairs had all been carried 
out at no additional cost to Mr C. But I hadnt seen any evidence that a repair for the 
clutch had been refused by LeasePlan in October 2018 or in April 2019. I also hadnt 
seen any evidence that Mr C complained to LeasePlan in either October 2018 when the 
other repairs were carried out or in April 2019 that it had unfairly declined to authorise 
the work to the clutch.
Taking into account the evidence, I couldnt reasonably say that I had enough evidence to 
show that LeasePlan had unfairly declined the repair to the clutch. I appreciated it 
appeared that the garage had recorded the clutch as being heavy in October 2018, but I 
couldnt say this had then been raised with LeasePlan as a necessary repair at that time. 
Nor could I say there was any contact around six months later when the repair was 
carried out between the repairing garage and/or Mr C and LeasePlan. And although I 
understood that LeasePlan would have declined to authorise the repair in April 2019 
because the garage wasnt one that it had approved, I accepted it would have advised Mr 
C to use the agreed procedure to arrange this repair. So, I wasnt going to ask LeasePlan 
to reimburse Mr C the cost of the work undertaken on the clutch.
Our investigator had recommended LeasePlan pay Mr C £100 compensation for the 
service it had provided him with in regard to the ending of this agreement. I agreed that 
receiving an invoice for £31,000 for the excess mileage charge would have been 
stressful and I appreciated he had felt harassed by LeasePlans contact seeking that 
amount to be paid. Mr C had also made a Subject Access Request but then didnt get 
the information.
I think it was reasonable to think Mr C had suffered unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused by LeasePlan over its handling of the termination of this 
agreement. I agreed with the view of our investigator that £100 compensation in all the 
circumstances would be fair to reflect the impact on Mr C.
For the reasons given above I intended to partially uphold Mr Cs complaint. I asked 
LeasePlan to do the following:
Reduce the outstanding charge on his account to £2,500 for the excess mileage.
Pay Mr C £100 compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of the termination of the 
agreement.
Remove any adverse information regarding this agreement from Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C has asked me to review my provisional decision. He says that he had wanted to buy 
the vehicle in 2017 but at the time hadnt been able to because the excess mileage fees and 
maintenance fees had been higher than he had allowed for. Mr C said he had hoped to 
reduce the mileage costs by extending the lease.He said that the garage had reported the issue with the clutch to LeasePlan and it had 
unreasonably refused. LeasePlan had only sought to end the agreement because it had 
been unhappy with the repair costs for the vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked again at the evidence that has been provided including new documents 
provided by Mr C. Mr C has sent in copies of letters showing the purchase prices quoted to 
him in December 2016 and January 2017 of £6,250 and £5,833 respectively after he had 
made enquiries to buy the vehicle and an unsigned copy of the order form for the car 
showing that the lease period was for 24 months, there was a mileage limit of 20,000 and an 
excess mileage fee of 12.82 per mile. Im afraid I havent changed my view.
Mr C was unable to proceed to purchase the vehicle due to the additional costs that were 
requested by LeasePlan to cover the excess mileage fee. Looking at the terms and 
conditions of the hire agreement I cant reasonably say that LeasePlan wasnt entitled to 
make the additional charges. The car appears to have done in excess of 60,000 miles more 
than what had been expected had Mr C kept to the 20,000-mileage limit set in the hire 
agreement when he first enquired about buying it.
Mr C decided to keep the vehicle on hire until it was written-off in August 2019. As set out 
above, although Mr Cs insurers paid a settlement for the car this didnt match the cars value 
had Mr C not exceeded the mileage limit. Mr C has queried the valuation of the vehicle and 
has raised the selling prices he was quoted in 2017.
I remain unclear how LeasePlan had reached a value of £10,330 for the vehicle and still 
consider this to be in excess of its value. I am still satisfied that it would have been worth 
around £6,000 at the time it was written-off had Mr C kept to the 20,000 per year mileage 
limit.
While I appreciate this is more than the £5,833 quoted to Mr C in January 2017 by 
LeasePlan for the vehicle, I think its reasonable to take into account that price was given for 
the car together with an excess mileage fee of several thousand pounds. So, I dont think I 
can fairly look at that price when assessing whether LeasePlan has suffered a loss from the 
settlement it received from Mr Cs insurers in August 2019.
For the reasons given above, Im still satisfied that it would be reasonable to assess the loss 
to LeasePlan as being £2,500 and that it would be fair for Mr C to pay LeasePlan that 
amount. This loss represents what the vehicle would have been worth had Mr C not exceed 
the mileage to the level that he had.
Mr C doesnt agree that the garage hadnt sought authorisation from LeasePlan to repair the 
clutch and thereby forcing him to have to get it done by another garage and cover that cost. 
He has been unable to provide any further evidence than the garage report that was already 
in the bundle. I have considered my reasoning over whether this repair should be 
reimbursed to Mr C and I still dont think I have enough evidence to be able to reasonably 
say that LeasePlan declined that repair. So, Im not going to ask LeasePlan to reimburse 
that amount.
Im still think that it would be fair and reasonable for Mr C to receive £100 compensation for 
LeasePlans handling of his account in respect of the excess mileage fee and the failure to 
respond to his SAR. Its also fair for LeasePlan to remove any adverse information about this account that its added to his credit file about this account as he has rightly contested the 
excess mileage fee that was charged.
For the reasons given I am partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Putting things right
Im asking LeasePlan to do the following:
Reduce the outstanding charge on Mr Cs account to £2,500 for the excess 
mileage.
Pay Mr C £100 compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of the termination of the 
agreement.
Remove any adverse information regarding this agreement from Mr Cs credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. Im asking 
LeasePlan UK Limited to do the following:
Reduce the outstanding charge on Mr Cs account to £2,500 for the excess 
mileage.
Pay Mr C £100 compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of the termination of the 
agreement.
Remove any adverse information regarding this agreement from Mr Cs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman