DRN-4120771
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service received from Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax).
What happened
Mr C wanted to pay up front (using Halifaxs online banking facility) for a medical procedure 
he was due to have later day. However, Halifax experienced unexpected and temporary 
technical issues which (amongst other services) affected internet banking. 
As a result, Mr C says he was only able to make the payment when he arrived at the hospital 
for his appointment. He said the member of staff was rude to him on arrival due to payment 
not having been made in advance, the time for his operation was put back and as a result 
the operation wasnt successful  leading to further complications and treatment being 
required. 
Halifax agreed that Mr C hadnt been able to make payment when he initially wanted due to 
system issues and paid him £50 for the upset and inconvenience this caused him. 
Unhappy, Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt 
think Halifax had to do anything more to put things right so didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
As Mr C disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the points Mr C has raised in reply to our investigators view. 
Halifax accepts that Mr C couldnt make the money transfer to the hospital using its online 
banking facility. Its apologised for this and offered Mr C £50 compensation. 
As a result of the technical issues Halifax experienced, Mr C says he wasnt able to make 
payment for the medical procedure he needed until he arrived at the hospital for his 
appointment. He says he was treated badly by staff, who immediately demanded payment. 
He says he was then kept waiting for almost four hours for the procedure and was made the 
last patient of the day. The procedure wasnt successful, and Mr C says this was due to him 
having to wait too long and given second rate treatment at the end of the day when the 
surgeon/consultant is obviously not at his best. So, he has needed further treatment and 
incurred further costs. 
Im very sorry to hear that Mr C had to wait four hours for the procedure and that the 
procedure wasnt successful. However, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
Halifax responsible for this. Ive seen nothing which persuades me that the procedure was 
pushed back to later in the evening because payment had only been made on Mr Cs arrival 
to hospital. There are many reasons why a procedure may be put back. Further, theres 
nothing to suggest that the quality of medical care he received was inferior because the 
medical procedure took place later in the evening, as he says. The procedure may not have 
been successful for many reasons, and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
Halifax responsible for this.  
However, I accept that it wouldve been frustrating for Mr C not to have been able to make 
the payment earlier in the day as he had wanted. I think £50 fairly compensates him for this. 
Whilst I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. For reasons set out above, I dont 
think Halifax needs to do anything more to put things right in this case. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax doesnt need to do anything more to put things right. 
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman