DRN-4425483
The complaint
Mr R complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) who declined his 
claim under his mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R held a mobile phone insurance policy with Assurant. He was a victim of a theft in which 
his phone was stolen. He made a claim and Assurant, during the claims process, Assurant 
asked Mr R for various documents. As well as a crime reference number. Mr R provided all 
the information requested. 
But Assurant said that the crime reference number did not correlate to the crime reference 
numbers that were issued by the relevant police force. It also questioned the validity of some 
screenshots that were submitted. In that, it said that the screenshots had been modified, as 
one screenshot showed Mr Rs phone location as being in London and another in the United 
Kingdom. Because of this information, that Assurant said was false, it declined the claim 
under the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr R complained as he said that he hadnt modified the screenshot. He also provided a 
video of him logging into the device, that showed the relevant screen. 
In its final response, Assurant maintained its positions. And as Mr R was given his referral 
rights, he referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that although the screenshots showed one location in London and the other screenshot 
showed United Kingdom, this wasnt enough to prove that it had been modified. Especially 
as Mr R had provided evidence of him logging on to the device that showed the relevant 
screen. So, he concluded that Assurant ought to reconsider the claim, in line with the 
remaining policy terms. 
Mr R accepted the view, Assurant did not. It said that the video evidence that Mr R provided 
couldnt be relied upon as it thought it was for a different phone. It also said that the video 
showed two devices one of which had been the device that Mr R originally claimed for, and 
that Assurant replaced earlier. It further said that the screenshot had been altered as the 
properties showed that a program was used to manipulate the information. So, it asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 26 September 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 24 October 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint, which I understand is likely to be a 
disappointment to Mr R. But I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision. 
Assurant said that it believed that Mr R had modified the screenshot to show an alternate 
location of the phone. It said that the properties on the screenshot show that the information 
had been manipulated. 
It relied on the policy terms and conditions which stated: It is important that when applying 
for insurance or submitting a claim you or anyone acting on your behalf must take 
reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and to the best of your knowledge. Failure 
to do so may affect the validity of your policy or the payment of your claim. And because of 
this modification, it felt that it invalidated the claim, and it could reasonably decline the claim. 
I think the issue of this complaint, is whether Assurant was fair and reasonable to decline the 
claim due to this information, that Mr R supplied. So, Ive had a look into this. 
I asked Mr R if he could provide me with the location information (which is readily available 
from his mobile phone provider) from the month up to and including the date of loss. As I 
think this evidence would likely indicate where the phone had been located. Mr R didnt 
respond to the request.
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, Im satisfied that the obligation on the 
policyholder is to take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and to the best of 
their knowledge when submitting a claim. Ive taken this to include when documents are 
requested, and then submitted. In this complaint Assurant asked for various documents, to 
verify the claim. 
Mr R supplied the documents requested, but Assurant said that some of those documents, in 
particular the screenshot, had been modified. The properties on the screenshot showed that 
it had been altered. 
In addition, Mr R sent a video, which Assurant viewed and analysed. It said it showed a 
device that was first signed into on Mr Rs online account, on 22 November 2022. It didnt 
show the IMEI number of the device. It said that the phone that Mr R was claiming for hadnt 
been received by him until 26 January 2023. So, it concluded that the video didnt support 
the process, the location of the device and must have been for a different phone. 
Assurant further stated, that as Mr R had said that phone was linked to his online account, 
that account only showed two devices, the device that the video was being recorded on and 
another device, which was the phone that Mr R reported as lost, claimed for, and replaced 
previously. Due to all of these concerns, Assurant declined the claim.  
In the absence of any evidence from Mr R that proves the location of the phone pre-loss and 
evidence that refutes what Assurant had discovered, Im persuaded by Assurants 
comments, and Im currently satisfied that it fairly declined Mr Rs claim. Taking all of the evidence into consideration, I dont think that at present, Assurant was 
unfair or unreasonable to decline the claim, for the reasons I have given. If Mr R is able to 
provide me with evidence that can refute that of Assurants, then I will of course consider it. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Assurant had nothing further to add. 
Mr R said that he had sent in a video and screenshot of his phone, as this indicated the 
location of it. He said he didnt understand why, it was said that, he hadnt provided evidence 
of location. He said he was out of the country at the moment.  
Ive carefully considered the comments made by Mr R and Im not persuaded by them, so, Ill 
explain why. 
This complaint essentially turns on where Mr Rs phone was located at the time of the theft. 
Id asked Mr R to obtain his location of the phone from his phone provider. Mr R was given a 
few weeks to obtain this information and hasnt provided me with it. 
Assurant said that it believed that Mr R had modified the screenshot to show an alternate 
location of the phone. It said that the properties on the screenshot show that the information 
had been manipulated. In order to refute this, Mr R couldve provided the location report from 
his phone provider and didnt. As he didnt do this, Im persuaded by Assurant that the 
properties in the screenshot had been modified. 
Further, Assurant said, that as Mr R had said that phone was linked to his online account, 
that account only showed two devices, the device that the video was being recorded on and 
another device, which was the phone that Mr R reported as lost, claimed for, and replaced 
previously. Due to all of these concerns, Assurant declined the claim.  
In the absence of any evidence from Mr R that proves the location of the phone pre-loss and 
evidence that refutes what Assurant had discovered, Im persuaded by Assurants 
comments, and Im satisfied that it fairly declined Mr Rs claim. 
I acknowledge Mr Rs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he 
referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that Assurant acted unfairly. So, I wont be asking Assurant to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman