DRN-3060646
The complaint
This complaint is about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) handled a claim 
against the late Mr Cs home insurance policy. 
It is brought by the executors of the estate, who Ill refer to as Ms W as she is now leading 
the complaint with this service. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr C held a buildings and contents insurance policy with Fairmead.
In 2018 Mr C made a claim under the policy following an escape of water in his 
kitchen. He reported damage to the walls, carpets and furniture. 
Fairmead considered this claim and declined it. It said its loss adjusters (Company 
A) report found the damage was ongoing for a period of time and not caused by a 
one-off insurable event. It also said the policy didnt cover wear and tear so it 
declined the claim. But it did offer £100 in compensation for poor communication. 
Shortly after, Mr Cs representative provided a plumbers report which hes said 
showed the source of the water as coming from a lead water pipe in the dining room.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. He disagreed with Fairmeads decision on 
the claim, saying the damage to the carpet had been recent. And that he was 
specifically seeking cover for the damage resulting from the escape of water. He 
asked for Fairmead to cover costs associated with cleaning and decoration of the 
room, including the cost of carpets and furniture. He also asked for it to pay for the 
time he spent in alternative accommodation and associated distress and 
inconvenience.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She said Fairmead had acted 
fairly by declining the claim initially. However, once it received the plumbers report 
that established the cause of the leak it shouldve reconsidered the claim. 
As Mr Cs home was renovated and all damage was repaired by this time, she said 
Fairmead should reconsider the claim in light of the invoices paid for claim related 
works. She also said it should consider Mr Cs request for costs associated with 
alternative accommodation and increase its offer of compensation to £250.
Fairmead disagreed. It didnt dispute that an escape of water took place, but it said 
the water damage was historic and had been ongoing for some time. It pointed to 
black mould in the home and on the table and chairs of the dining room. It concluded 
that due to the extent of damage across the home, it was impossible to distinguish 
what damage was caused by what event.
Our investigator looked again. She reiterated she only expected Fairmead to cover 
damage resulting from the leaking water pipe. And that a council worker had 
provided a letter to Mr C saying the level of water damage wasnt present when she 
had attended the home (within three weeks prior to the claim). The investigator said 
this suggested the leak and saturated carpets was a one-off event that resulting in 
the flooding to the kitchen and dining room.
The investigator also said the presence of mould or home in a state of poor repair 
wasnt enough to persuade her Mr C shouldve known of a problem with the dining 
room water pipe. Particularly as the mould was elsewhere in the home and couldve 
been caused by multiple factors. In addition she highlighted the pipe was partially 
plastered into the wall  which she felt supported that Mr C couldnt have reasonably 
known of the issue.
Fairmead still disagreed, saying it was unclear what the cause of the leak was.
So the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
thoughts on 15 September 2021 outlining why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. Ive 
included an extract of this below.
Ms W says that Fairmead should cover the claim for escape of water in line with the 
policy terms. So, Ive looked at the policy wording.
Under the buildings and contents aspects of the policy, it says it will cover:
Water escaping from or freezing in any fixed domestic water or heating 
installation, drainage installation, washing machine, dishwasher, refrigerator, 
freezer
In this case, Fairmead has agreed there has been an escape of water.
But Fairmead has challenged the cause of this leak and said it would be impossible 
to distinguish damage caused in light of existing damage. And it highlighted a general 
exception within the policy that said it will not cover any loss, damage or liability 
caused by or arising from an incident that does not arise from one identifiable 
event.
Fairmead has also said the policy will not provide cover or benefits under the 
circumstances of wear and tear which it defines as:
Loss or damage caused by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything that 
happens gradually.
These are common terms in policies of this nature. So, Ive looked at the evidence 
available to determine whether Fairmead has fairly relied on them. 
Ive seen an extract of Mr Cs plumbers report. This says the source of the water 
leak was coming from a lead water pipe situated in the far-left corner of the dining 
room. It goes on to say the water has caused damage to the floor covering and the 
majority of the walls are damp, wet and mostly covered in black mould patches.
This doesnt describe the cause of the leak itself  simply the location of the source 
of the leak and damage present in the dining room. So, I have to consider the 
available evidence to determine whether the damage in question does arise from one 
identifiable event or whether this amounts to wear and tear.
Company As report provides what I consider to be a detailed account of Mr Cs 
home. It describes damage across the home, including black mould and a separate 
escape of water. The adjuster said The damage has been ongoing over a long 
period of time and he describes the damage as extensive.
Having reviewed the photos myself, I think this is a fair and accurate commentary 
provided by Company A. Large patches of black mould can be seen in various places 
around the house. And it doesnt persuade me that the damage was caused by a 
one-off event.Ms W has provided a statement from a council worker which she says supports the 
damage occurred suddenly. Ive included their statement below.
I have been asked to send this email to confirm I visited [Mr C] at his home 
address of [redacted] on 06/06/18 and there was no flooding in the house at 
this point.
Even if I take this comment on face value, it would only show there was no standing 
water as of this date, and I dont think it demonstrates the cause of the water leak 
happened as a result of a one-off event. Nor does this eliminate the possibility of it 
being caused by wear and tear or over time as Fairmead has suggested.
Fairmead has also described mould on the legs and chairs of the dining table within 
the room in question. This was supported by internal notes Ive been provided with 
from the time. This suggests to me that there was existing damage to the room, and 
the items Ms W is seeking to claim for. So, it strikes me that there is more than one 
identifiable event to consider when assessing the damage  as Fairmead has 
highlighted.
Without an identifiable cause for the leak  which Im not satisfied has been 
established  I think its fair for Fairmead to say the damage in question was most 
likely down to wear and tear and happened gradually over time. I say this in light of 
the state of repair the home was in, including the mould damage. Mould isnt usually 
something that occurs suddenly and its presence across the home suggests ongoing 
problems. And as the damage was visible, I think it was fair for Fairmead to rely on 
the policy term relating to gradual damage.
For these reasons Im minded to say Fairmead has fairly and reasonably declined 
this claim. And Im not intending to ask it to do anything further.
Fairmead said it had nothing further to provide. Ms W responded to say while Mr Cs home 
was cluttered and poorly ventilated, it was untrue to say the home outside of the dining room 
had mould present. And she reiterated that the dining room carpet was dry prior to the pipe 
bursting and causing the flooding
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms W has said. And Ive considered the points shes made 
previously in light of all of the available evidence. But shes provided nothing further for me 
to consider  such as a report or any evidence to support what shes said about the 
condition of the house. 
So, while Ive taken on board Ms Ws points, these havent persuaded me to depart from my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman