DRN-3949866
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K are unhappy with the service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited following a claim for escape of water on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K are both parties to this complaint. Mr K has primarily dealt with this service. 
For ease of reference I have referred to Mr K throughout this final decision.
Mr K held a home insurance policy with Admiral which included contents cover. The policy 
booklet explained escape of water claims would not be covered where the loss or damage 
was caused by faulty, failed or inadequate grout or sealant. 
On 8 March 2022 Mr K contacted Admiral because hed noticed a water leak coming from 
the toilet in the main bathroom. The claim details recorded Water found to be leaking from 
toilet inlet pipe and seeped under cushion flowing, soaking and damaging floorboards 
underneath, had to remove toilet to access leak and floor tiles below cushion flooring. 
Admiral arranged for a surveyor (company B) to attend Mr Ks home to assess the damage. 
Company B said due a backlog they had a wait time of approximately two weeks before 
theyd be able to get to Mr Ks home. Mr K asked if it would be acceptable for me to go 
ahead and clear some of the mess to allow us to at least be able to start preparatory work. 
He was told this would be fine. 
On 30 March a representative from company B attended Mr Ks home. Company B 
concluded that the damage claimed for wouldnt be covered by Mr Ks policy because of 
failed sealant around the bath area. Mr K raised a complaint about this decision. 
Admiral re-reviewed Mr Ks claim and it was decided that part of the claim would be covered. 
Admiral wrote to Mr K on 16 May explaining their claim team would be in touch to discuss 
validation for the parts of the claim that would be covered. They also offered £225 for the 
inconvenience caused by their error in rejecting the claim initially, and sent a cheque to Mr K 
for this amount. 
On 23 July company B prepared a schedule of works detailing what would be covered as 
part of Mr Ks claim. This said We have calculated insured repair costs in the sum of 
£2,594.70, less policy access. Mr K was unhappy with this amount.
Mr K said it didnt include the cost of replacing the bath and sink, which Mr K said was part of 
a suite, and also had to be replaced along with the faulty toilet. The schedule of works also 
didnt include damage caused to the dining room area. Mr K said the water had escaped to 
the dining room which is the room next to the bathroom. 
Mr K explained the damaged area in the dining room was the wall adjacent to the sink area 
and it was caused by the escape of water from the toilet. Mr K also said the time hed spent 
completing the repair work hadnt been included in company Bs calculation. 
Admiral told Mr K theyd ask their in-house surveyor to review Mr Ks comments. Mr K 
brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
On 24 August Admiral contacted Mr K and advised that they would increase their settlement 
offer to £3,357.34 less the policy excess. The increase in settlement was to cover the cost of 
a replacement toilet only. Admiral explained it would not be paying for a replacement bath 
and sink as these items were not part of a matching set so wouldnt be covered by the 
policy. 
During our investigation Admiral offered an additional £758.78 in recognition of the time and 
labour Mr K had spent completing the repair work to the bathroom. This meant the total 
offered was £4,108,12, less the policy excess. Admiral explained the damage to the living 
room cannot be attributed to the leak from the toilet and so cannot be covered under this 
claim. 
The investigator found that the toilet that had been replaced was part of a relatively modern 
white suite which could be replaced without affecting the overall look of the bathroom. In line 
with the policy terms, the decision not to cover the cost of the full bathroom suite was fair. 
The investigator also said that the damage caused to the dining room area was most likely 
caused by the leak from the toilet. Because of this, the investigator found that Admiral should 
include damage to the dining room as part of their overall settlement offer. The investigator 
also determined that £150 should be paid to Mr K in recognition of the upset caused by the 
delay in concluding his claim. 
Mr K agreed with the investigators findings. Admiral disagreed with the investigators 
findings saying that The photographs provided in the report by [company B] show signs of 
wear to the sealant around the bath and behind the sink, which we believe are responsible 
for the damage to the dining room wall. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I contacted Admiral on 21 February 2023 advising that the 
investigator had not included paying interest as part of their recommendation for putting 
things right on this complaint. I explained that I intend to include interest and asked for 
additional comments by 6 March 2023. As I didnt hear anything from Admiral Ive proceeded 
with issuing this final decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K contacted Admiral to make a claim for escape of water. There have been several 
attempts to try and resolve Mr Ks claim. Mr K has accepted the investigators most recent 
findings, and Admiral have disagreed. The dispute now relates to whether Admiral should 
pay for the damage caused to Mr Ks dining room. So Ive focused my final decision on 
resolving this part of Mr Ks complaint. 
Mr Ks policy says escape of water claims would not be covered where the loss or damage 
was caused by faulty, failed or inadequate grout or sealant. Admiral say that the sealant around the bath and behind the bath sink showed signs of wear, and the water mustve 
escaped to the dining room because of this. 
Ive checked the diagram provided by Mr K and relied on by Admiral in reaching their 
decision. This shows that the damage to the dining room area being claimed for is adjacent 
to the area where the sink was located in the bathroom. So although Admiral refer to wear 
to the sealant around the bath I am persuaded the escape of water Mr K is referring to is 
through the sink area, as detailed in his diagram.  
The photograph showing floor sink shows Mr Ks sink, with the flooring lifted and pipework 
exposed. Mr K has explained that in order to stop the leak, he needed to lift the flooring, in 
particular, around the toilet/ sink area. There are no other photographs of the floor sink area 
immediately after the water escaped from the toilet. 
There is also a photograph showing grout crack sink. This shows gaps in the grouting 
around the sink area. The image provided by Admiral is of the grouting having gaps on the 
sink itself- not at ground level. The sink itself would be above where the water would 
reasonably have escaped to. So I dont think Admirals use of the photograph showing 
cracked grouting in the sink is a fair reason to reject Mr Ks escape of water claim which 
started from the toilet at ground level. 
Admiral also refer to sealant around the bath but for the same reasons as explained above, 
I dont think the sealant/ grouting here would impact on the assessment of water escaping at 
ground level into the adjacent room. According to Mr Ks diagram, the area of the dining 
room he is claiming for is adjacent to where the bathroom sink was only. 
Ive considered the photographs and comments about the escape of water, and whether this 
wouldve likely been the cause of damage to Mr Ks dining room. Ive also considered the 
exclusion relied on by Admiral in not including this damage when considering Mr Ks claim. 
Whilst there may have been some issues with the sealant/grouting, and its a finely balanced 
decision, Im more persuaded that the damage to the dining room was caused by the escape 
of water from the original source of the leak, that is, the toilet at ground level. And although 
Admiral refer to signs of wear to the sealant around the bath and behind the sink, I dont 
think this supports their reasoning for rejecting an escape of water claim at ground level. So I 
find it fair that Admiral include damage to the dining room when assessing Mr Ks claim.  
I also think Mr K has been caused additional upset and inconvenience because of the time 
taken to resolve his claim. The investigator recommended Admiral pay an additional £150 to 
whats already been offered in recognition of the impact on Mr K. I think this amount is 
reasonable and in line with what wed recommend in the circumstances. 
This amount recognises the emails sent by Mr K, and delays on the claim which ought to 
have been concluded much sooner had Admiral dealt with the claim reasonably from the 
outset. I have taken into consideration the earlier offers made by Admiral, in particular the 
£225 offered when Mr Ks claim was re-reviewed. But I think an additional £150 should still 
be paid in recognition of whats happened after this amount was offered. The dining room 
part of Mr Ks claim shouldve been correctly assessed and included from the outset as part 
of Mr Ks claim settlement. Because this didnt happen, the stress caused to Mr K has been 
prolonged unreasonably. I think its fair that additional compensation of £150 is paid to 
recognise the delay and impact on Mr K because of this part of his claim not being settled 
sooner. Putting things right
- Admiral have already agreed to offer £4,108.12, less the policy excess, for Mr Ks 
claim. In addition to this, Admiral should include damage to Mr Ks dining room in 
their offer to settle this claim. Admiral must pay at 8% per annum simple interest, 
from the date the claim should reasonably have settled (23 July 2022) to the date the 
claim is settled*
Admiral must do so in accordance with the policy terms and conditions without using 
the exclusion for faulty, failed or inadequate grout or sealant as a reason for 
rejecting this part of Mr Ks claim; and
- Admiral must pay £150
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman