DRN-3412559
The complaint
Mrs H complains how Ageas Insurance Limited has handled her claim on her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In December 2018, Mrs H made a claim on her policy for an oil leak at her property. 
Ageas appointed loss adjusters and an oil specialist to deal with the claim. The 
remedial works required excavations around the affected area of the property. 
Mrs H believes this work caused problems with the level of the water table. As after 
the excavations there was a constant influx of water to such an extent that pumps 
had to be installed both inside and outside the property. 
The kitchen required strip out works and excavation which meant the property was 
uninhabitable and therefore Mrs H and her family had to move to alternative 
accommodation. Over three years later, the claim still isnt fully settled. 
Mrs H complained to Ageas - about the handling of her claim. She said she was 
unhappy about the service she has received, the timescales of the claim, the lack of 
communication and unnecessary delays with the claim payments. Ageas agreed that 
the level of service hadnt met expectations and offered £150 in compensation.
Mrs H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said the compensation should be 
increased by an additional £650 (a total of £800). Also as Mrs H had to wait an 
unreasonable amount of time for her utility fees and other costs to be reimbursed 
Ageas should pay interest of 8% simple per annum on any utility fee or other claim 
related payment that Mrs H paid (and can evidence) from day 28 until the payment 
was (or is) made.
Mrs H didnt feel the increased offer of £800 is sufficient. She says it does not reflect 
the psychological/emotional inconvenience and anxiety incurred. Ageas loss adjuster 
offered to increase the compensation to £300 but needed to refer the rest of the 
investigators recommendations to the Insurer. As no further response was received 
the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease of reading any reference to Ageas includes their agents.
I can see this is a long-standing claim and is still an ongoing some three years later. 
Unfortunately, due to the nature of the claim and then the additional issues of the influx of 
water following the excavations this was always going to be lengthy claim and cause 
disturbance for Mrs H and her family. From what Ive seen there appears to be some 
complex drainage issues that need to be resolved. Our investigator has made Mrs H aware 
that if she remains unhappy with the outcome of this part of her claim this will need to be 
raised by her in the first instance and addressed by Ageas under its complaint process. If 
she remains unhappy with its response, then she can look at her options to progress this 
part of her complaint further.
In Ageas final response dated 7 May 2020, Ageas has agreed that its level of service hadnt 
met expectations and compensation of £150 was offered. When things hadnt improved five 
months later Mrs H bought her complaint to this service. From what Ive seen there has been 
delays with reports getting from one party to another, and this has evidently delayed 
progress of the claim. There wasnt any active chasing for the reports and Mrs H wasnt kept 
up to date. There was then a further period where there was no progress with the claim until 
proposals for the drainage issue began to be explored. 
In addition to this, Mrs H has covered numerous costs on the basis that the money would be 
reimbursed in a timely manner, but she's had to wait the best part of a year for
some payments to be made. She asked for interest to be applied to these payments which
would seem reasonable but this request hasnt been actioned. 
Given the above Im not persuaded Ageas offer of £150 is sufficient compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience that Mrs H has faced. Due to some avoidable delays Mrs H and 
her family have been out of their home since March 2019, in addition they have suffered 
financial hardship due to delayed payments. 
I agree with the investigator in the circumstances an additional £650 (a total of £800) is fair 
given all the issues highlighted. I also think Mrs H had to wait an unreasonable amount of 
time for her utility fees and other costs to be reimbursed. I of course understand when such 
costs are received their payment must be approved but I dont think this should take more 
than 28 days. Therefore, in addition to the compensation payment, I instruct Ageas to pay 
interest of 8% simple per annum on any utility bill or other claim related payment that Mrs H 
has paid (and can evidence) from day 28 until the payment was (or is) made.
Putting things right
I instruct Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay £650 additional compensation (a total of £800) for the distress and 
inconvenience. Ageas must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% simple per annum1.
Pay interest of 8% simple per annum1 on any utility bill or other claim related 
payment that Mrs H has paid (and can evidence) from day 28 until payment was (or 
is) made.
1HM Revenue & Customs requires Ageas to take off tax from this interest. If it deducts tax it 
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax, its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman