DRN-3366773
The complaint
Mr S says Xbridge Limited didnt provide accurate information about a tenant default 
insurance policy he took out through it. And that led to a subsequent claim he made on the 
policy being declined. 
What happened
Mr S is a landlord. In July 2016 he took out a Landlord Legal Solutions policy through 
Xbridge. That included tenant default which covered unpaid rent owed by a tenant for a set 
period. The policy renewed in subsequent years. 
In September 2019 Mr S contacted Xbridge to discuss what checks he needed to carry out 
on a new tenant. The following February Mr S made a claim on his policy because a tenant 
had stopped paying rent. The insurer turned down the tenant default element of the claim 
because it said a guarantor should have been in place for the tenant and wasnt. And the 
tenancy shouldnt have been granted if there were any doubts about the integrity or financial 
standing of the tenant. Weve considered a separate complaint about that. Another 
ombudsman concluded the insurer acted fairly in turning down the claim. 
Mr S said the policy wording which applied when he took the policy out didnt say a 
guarantor was required. When he made his claim he was sent new wording which said it 
was but Xbridge never told him about this. And during his call with it he wasnt told the tenant 
needed to pass a credit check, only that this needed to be carried out. He thought Xbridge 
was responsible for the decline of his claim. 
Our investigator agreed the policy wording as it related to guarantors had changed and 
wasnt satisfied Xbridge provided Mr S with correct policy information at renewal or drew his 
attention to this. And she agreed Xbridge could have given Mr S clearer information when he 
contacted it in September 2019. 
But she didnt think Xbridge was responsible for Mr Ss claim being turned down. Thats 
because the terms relating to the financial standing of a tenant hadnt changed and the 
insurer had also relied on this to turn down the claim. However, she accepted Mr S had been 
caused some inconvenience by what Xbridge got wrong and recommended it pay him £100 
in recognition of that. 
Xbridge agreed to do so. Mr S didnt agree. He said the policy as sold to him didnt say a 
tenant had to pass a credit check or have a guarantor. And Xbridge didnt provide clear 
information on this when he called to discuss the checks that were required. So I need to 
reach a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Xbridge says this was a non-advised sale. I understand Mr S took out his policy online 
without the involvement of an adviser so I think thats likely to have been the case. Under the 
relevant rules, it didnt need to ensure the policy was suitable for him. But it did need to 
provide him with clear, fair and not misleading information so he could decide for himself if 
the policy was right for him. 
I dont think its in dispute Mr S was provided with the correct information when he took the 
policy out. So I think he would have been aware of the requirements as they relate to 
tenancy referencing when doing so (and he hasnt suggested otherwise). His argument is he 
wasnt made aware at a subsequent renewal those terms had changed, in particular as they 
relate to the requirement for a guarantor to be in place. 
Im satisfied there was a change in wording. The policy Mr S took out said that prior to 
granting the tenancy he must obtain satisfactory references for the tenant from:
a) a previous managing agent or
b) previous landlord, and
c) an employer or (other financial source), and
d) a credit history check (including County Court Judgments, the Enforcement of 
Judgments Office and bankruptcy) 
where a guarantor is required only items c) and d) above will apply to the guarantor.
However, while the policy which applied to the claim he made in February 2020 contained 
similar referencing conditions it clarified that where these could not be met in full a guarantor 
would be required. 
And while Xbridge told us that at renewal Mr S was sent a link to the policy wording it hasnt 
been able to evidence this was to the revised wording. So I cant be satisfied Mr S was given 
appropriate information about the policy at renewal or that this change was properly drawn to 
his attention. 
Ive also listened to the phone call Mr S had with Xbridge in September 2019. In that 
Mr S queried what level of credit check was required to meet the policy terms (whether this 
should be a standard or a comprehensive check). The adviser said the level of check wasnt 
specified but that it did need to be satisfactory. However, he didnt explain the circumstance 
in which a guarantor would be required. 
But, even if more information should have been provided on this, I dont think Mr S has lost 
out because it wasnt. I accept its possible if hed been made aware of the requirement for a 
guarantor he could have put this in place. However, that isnt the only reason the insurer 
declined his claim. Its also relied on a policy term which says you must not grant the 
tenancy if you are in any doubt of the integrity or the financial standing of the tenant or their 
guarantor. It didnt consider that term had been met. That term didnt change during the time 
Mr S had the policy and Ive already concluded Xbridge provided Mr S with information at the 
point of sale which should have made him aware of it.
Mr S also argues the policy he took out doesnt say the tenant has to pass a credit check 
and he wasnt told this when he contacted Xbridge. The original policy doesnt say that but it 
does refer to satisfactory checks being in place. And thats what Xbridge told Mr S when he 
discussed the checks with it. In this case the check carried out on the new tenant found they 
had two active County Court Judgements and said they were high risk. I dont think this 
could reasonably be regarded as meeting the requirement for a satisfactory check to be in 
place. As a result, while Im not satisfied Xbridge did provide Mr S with clear information about the 
need for a guarantor, that issue is only part of the reason that led to his claim being turned 
down. Given the information in the credit check and what the insurer has said about the 
reasons for turning down the claim I think the outcome is likely to have been the same even 
if Xbridge had given Mr S clearer information about the need for a guarantor. So I dont think 
its responsible for his claim being turned down. 
But I accept Mr S has been caused some inconvenience by not being given clearer 
information at an earlier stage. I think the £100 our investigator recommended (and which 
Xbridge has agreed to pay) is a reasonable way of recognising the impact of that on him. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. To put things right Xbridge Limited will need to 
pay Mr S £100. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
S to accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman