DRN-4451256
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs R complain that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
reported an outstanding sum to credit reference agencies in error. They also complain that 
MBFS declined to provide them with a new finance agreement. 
What happened
In February 2017, Mr M and Mrs R had taken out a hire purchase car finance agreement 
with MBFS that ended in April 2020. They didnt wish to exercise their option keep the car. 
Due to the pandemic the car wasnt collected until October 2020. 
In March 2022 Mr M and Mrs R were turned down when they applied for a new finance 
agreement with MBFS. They discovered that an outstanding balance of £29,652 relating to 
the earlier agreement was still showing on Mr Ms credit file. MBFS agreed to correct the 
credit file the same day. 
Mr M and Mrs R say that as a result their credit status for other borrowing was damaged and 
that also meant they had to pay more to borrow. 
Mr M and Mrs R also say that due to the outstanding balance that was still being shown on 
their credit record, MBFS had turned them down when they applied for a new finance 
agreement. 
MBFS says the outstanding sum mistakenly showing on their credit file wasnt a factor in 
their being turned down. 
Our investigator thought that MBFS had taken the necessary action to corrected the wrong 
reporting of the outstanding sum and that it had done so within a reasonable timeframe. She 
also thought that MBFS should pay Mr M and Mrs R a total of £75 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused them. 
Our investigator also didnt think that MBFS was wrong to decline Mr M and Mrs Rs 
application for a further car finance agreement. 
MBFS has accepted our investigators finding and award of compensation. 
But, because Mr M and Mrs R disagree with our investigators findings, the complaint has 
been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering the complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Mr M and Mrs Rs car finance agreement was a regulated consumer credit agreement which 
means were able to look into complaints about it.
Im sorry to hear about the frustration Mr M and Mrs R have experienced in relation to the 
failure of MBFS to promptly amend their credit file when their agreement ended.
Ive also looked at what happened in order to decide if something MBFS did
wrong caused Mr M and Mrs R to lose out financially - and, if so, what MBFS should do to 
put things right. 
I will consider each of these two complaint issues in turn.
Credit file reporting error
Given that its not in dispute that MBFS made an error in reporting the balance of £29,652 to 
credit reference agencies, I dont need to review the facts of what happened. 
So, having fully reviewed all the available evidence and information, including looking at 
what MBFS has provided, I think MBFS took the necessary steps to ensure that the incorrect 
information was removed as soon as Mr M and Mrs R told them about it. 
Also, Ive not seen anything to show or suggest that they have suffered a financial or other 
loss as a result. 
I also consider that the £75 compensation recommended by our investigator for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr M and Mrs R have experienced as a result of its error is a fair and 
reasonable sum in the particular circumstances of this complaint. I am pleased to note that 
MBFS agrees this is a fair outcome. 
As I am satisfied that MBFS has rectified Mr Ms credit file, I therefore dont consider that I 
can reasonably require MBFS to pay more compensation or do anything else on this issue. 
Declined lending
Mr M told our investigator that he ended up taking out borrowing that cost him more with a 
new agreement. Mrs R considers that incorrect reporting led to MBFS turning him down for 
further credit. 
I think the key issue to keep in mind here is that it was always open to MBFS to decide 
whether or not to grant Mr M and Mrs R further finance. I havent seen anything to show or 
suggest that they werent treated fairly during the course of the application process. In 
particular, Ive not seen any suggestion that MBFSs failure to remove the outstanding debt 
sum from their credit file when it should have done was responsible for the new lending 
being declined. 
It follows that unfortunately I am not able to make a finding that MBFSs actions led to Mr M 
and Mrs R taking out a new finance agreement elsewhere, with additional cost and other 
inconvenience. 
Ive seen that Mr M says he has been turned down for other lending, such as a mobile phone 
rental contract, over the past two years. In particular, he says he was turned down for finance relating to funeral costs which caused him personal distress. I am sorry to hear of 
that. But unfortunately, I havent seen evidence or information to demonstrate that he was 
turned down to credit due to MBFSs error in not arranging for the outstanding sum to be 
removed from his credit file. 
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr M and Mrs R. But I think 
this outcome is fair in all the circumstances. 
Putting things right  what Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited needs to do
It follows that the only compensation I think its fair and reasonable to pay to Mr M and Mrs R 
is in relation to distress and inconvenience due to  the incorrect recording of the outstanding 
sum with credit reference agencies. 
That means MBFS must pay them £75, if it has not done so already. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is to uphold this complaint in part and require 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to compensate Mr M and Mrs R in the way 
Ive set out above  for distress and inconvenience (if it hasnt done so already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman