DRN-3353897
The complaint
Mr T complains that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited (MAFS) recommended he 
transfer the benefits he held in three personal pensions and a group personal pension to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). The funds were subsequently invested in high-risk 
investments which Mr T says werent suitable for him.
What happened
Mr T was introduced to MAFS through an unregulated introducer, Mr B, in 2015 for pension 
advice. Mr T says Mr B continued to be involved in the discussions he had with the MAFSs 
adviser, Mr M, and facilitated the completion of paperwork.
In January 2016 Mr M produced a retirement planning report in which he recommended Mr T 
transfer the benefits held in his existing pension plans to a SIPP. Mr M recommended that 
the funds should be invested with a discretionary fund manager (DFM)  which Ill refer to 
as B  to access its model portfolio service. He said his funds would be invested based on 
his attitude to risk, which had been assessed as 5/10 or medium.
The report said MAFS would be responsible for providing ongoing advice, for which it would 
take an annual fee of 0.5% of the plan value.
Mr T accepted the recommendations and a total of £286,784.07 was transferred to the SIPP 
in February and March 2016. MAFS took a fee of 2% of the total transfer value  £5,735.68. 
On 15 March 2016, £177,637.22 of Mr Ts funds were invested with B, and £100,000 was 
invested with another DFM, which Ill refer to as S. In October 2016 the majority of the 
funds invested with B were reinvested with S. A total of £250,000 was invested in Optima 
bonds through S, with the remainder invested across an adventurous and conservative fund.
In late 2016 MAFS started looking into pension advice provided where Mr B had acted as 
the introducer. And Mr M was dismissed as a result of regulatory breaches MAFS uncovered 
through its investigation. On 26 January 2017 Mr T was sent a letter explaining Mr Ms 
departure. On the same day, Mr T sent MAFS a text in which he expressed some concern 
with the service provided by MAFS and the situation with Mr M.
On 23 March 2017 MAFS issued a final response letter (FRL) to Mr T. It said the service 
provided to him had followed the right process. It also said the pension transfer advice and 
initial investment advice had been suitable for him. MAFS explained the investments with S 
had come about due to instructions from Mr B and execution only letters Mr T had sent to 
S. However, MAFS said that it had uncovered irregularities in the dealings of B and S and 
proposed to assist Mr T with complaints about these businesses.
In 2020 Mr T complained to MAFS through a representative after finding out that he had lost 
the majority of his pension funds through the investments with B and S. He complained that 
the pension transfer advice and investments were not suitable for him.
MAFS responded saying that Mr T had already complained in 2017 about the advice it had 
given him about his pension. MAFS said it had sent Mr T an FRL and noted he hadnt 
referred the complaint to our service within the six month time limit set out in that letter.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. His representative said Mr T didnt recall receiving 
MAFSs FRL in 2017 and in any event, he hadnt complained about the advice at the time. 
Our investigator thought Mr T had brought the same complaint to our service in 2020 as was 
addressed in MAFSs FRL in March 2017. As Mr T hadnt referred his complaint to our 
service within six months of that letter, he thought the complaint had been referred to us too
late under the regulators rules.
Mr T asked an ombudsman to consider the matter. I explained my provisional thoughts to 
MAFS, saying that I didnt think its letter of 23 March 2017 was a valid FRL under the 
regulators rules. This was because I thought it was arguable as to whether the text 
constituted a complaint and I also didnt think it responded to the complaint Mr T had actually 
raised.
MAFS didnt agree, saying the wider context of the events at the time had to be considered. 
It said Mr T was aware of the problems with the advice given by Mr M. So, it thought it was 
reasonable to interpret the text as a complaint about the advice Mr T had received from him.
I ultimately decided that Mr Ts complaint had been made in time. This was because I didnt 
think Mr T had complained about any advice or unsuitability of the recommendations MAFS 
gave him in 2016 until March 2020. As the 23 March 2017 FRL pre-dated this, I decided 
Mr Ts complaint was made in time.
The case was returned to our investigator to consider the merits of the complaint. The 
investigator upheld it as he wasnt persuaded that the advice to switch Mr Ts existing 
pensions to a SIPP was suitable for him. He thought the new arrangement was expensive 
and there were no real reasons to justify Mr T taking on the extra costs. The investigator 
noted that Mr T had a number of pensions and so consolidation was not an unreasonable 
aim, but he thought that couldve been achieved by switching the pensions into one of Mr Ts 
existing plans which had lower charges. He also wasnt persuaded that flexibility was 
required either.
The investigator noted that Mr Ts loss had been magnified by the investments placed via S, 
but he thought Mr M was aware of Mr Bs involvement throughout and the plan to invest via 
S. He thought MAFS could have prevented this and the associated losses. The investigator 
concluded MAFS was responsible for Mr Ts loss.
MAFS didnt accept this. It maintained that the advice was suitable and said Mr T wanted to 
consolidate his pensions as three of them were inflexible and didnt offer income drawdown. 
MAFS added that it had no involvement in the investments placed via S and was not aware 
of them. It said it would have otherwise advised Mr T against these investments. MAFS 
added that Mr T was aware Mr B was unregulated and was not employed by MAFS. So, it 
didnt think it should be held responsible for Mr Ts decision to follow Mr Bs advice. It asked 
for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.Necessity of the switch and consolidation of existing plans to a SIPP
According to the Retirement Planning Report dated 22 January 2016, MAFS noted that 
Mr T's objectives were consolidation of his existing pensions for ease of administration and 
flexibility to allow the full range of retirement options. However, it also noted that the 
arrangements should be competitively priced.
In 2009 the regulator, the Financial Services Authority, (now the Financial Conduct Authority 
 FCA) published a report and checklist for pension switching, which applied at the time the 
advice was given by MAFS (and is still applicable now). The checklist identified four main 
areas where consumers had lost out:
They had been switched to a pension that was more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and 
ongoing costs) without good reason.
They had lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason, such as the loss of 
ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate or the right to 
take benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age.
They had switched into a pension that did not match their recorded attitude to risk or 
personal circumstances.
They had switched into a pension where there was a need for ongoing investment 
reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Ive considered Mr Ts existing pension plans and whether a switch to a SIPP was necessary 
to meet his objectives, bearing in mind the regulators guidance above.
Mr T had four existing pensions with the following features:
Personal pension (PP) with A worth £190,160
Ability to take 25% tax-free cash ('TFC') and switch investment funds;
no income drawdown facility;
retirement age of 63;
charges of 0.92%.
Group personal pension (GPP) with S worth £81,090 
Ability to take 25% TFC and switch investment funds;
no income drawdown facility;
retirement age of 60;
charges 0.512%.
Flexible retirement plan (FRP) with S worth £888
Ability to take 25% TFC and switch investment funds;
income drawdown facility;
retirement age of 65;
charges 0.70%.
PP with SW worth £7,492Ability to take 25% TFC and switch investment funds;
no income drawdown facility;
retirement age of 65;
charges 1%.
All of the pensions Mr T held were competitively priced, and the GPP and FRP in particular 
wouldve been cheaper than the new arrangement recommended by MAFS. The adviser, 
Mr M, recognised this in the retirement planning report, where he said:
Looking at the charges alone, I would not recommend a transfer of these plans. However, 
upon transfer, you will be accessing a bespoke portfolio, benefitting from our regular review 
process, and you will be able to apply a single cohesive investment strategy across all of 
your pension funds. You will also benefit from flexible retirement options and ease of 
administration.
It is clear that Mr T was being advised to switch to a more expensive arrangement. So, Ive 
considered whether there was a good reason for it. The quote above suggests that the 
additional charges were worth it because Mr T would be able to access MAFSs investment 
strategy through a model portfolio, have flexibility and ease of administration.
But I'm not persuaded that MAFS established a genuine need for flexibility  the fact-find it 
carried out in December 2015 by Mr M was quite basic. Although it established that Mr T 
was debt-free and had minimal income needs at the time, it didnt establish when Mr T 
intended to retire, how much income he required in retirement, or whether he needed or 
wanted to take TFC. And I note that when Mr Ts funds were transferred, he didnt take any 
TFC despite being able to, which also brings into question whether having flexibility was 
important to him.
Furthermore, Mr T's FRP did have an income drawdown facility  if Mr T genuinely required 
flexibility, I think it would've been far more cost effective to switch the funds in the other 
plans to the FRP. This had a low charge of 0.7% and Mr T could switch funds within it, in line 
with his attitude to risk. So, I don't think Mr T needed to switch to a SIPP to have flexibility in 
retirement. This also would have met his objective of having ease of administration.
MAFS appears to have discounted switching the funds to the FRP because it didn't have 
access to its recommended investment strategy. But I haven't seen any evidence to 
substantiate why Mr T required access to bespoke portfolio management. He wasn't an 
experienced investor, so I don't think he would've had the necessary knowledge to 
understand the transactions that would be taken on his behalf. Furthermore, this came with 
increased costs which cannot be justified in the circumstances.
Although MAFS didnt establish when Mr T intended to retire, this was likely to be in under 
10 years. And Mr Ts income requirements look to be minimal given he was debt-free, so 
Mr T wouldn't have needed to take any unnecessary risks with his pension. It seems to me 
that modest growth would have been sufficient to meet his ongoing needs.
So overall, I don't think that the recommendation to switch all of Mr T's existing pensions to a 
SIPP and invest his funds with B was suitable for him. I'm satisfied that Mr T's objectives 
could've been achieved by switching his existing pensions to the FRP, which had low costs, 
and would've given him flexibility (if in fact it was required) and ease of administration. And 
had this advice been provided, Mr T wouldn't have been vulnerable to the unsuitable 
investments that were later made on his behalf.
So, for this reason alone, I would find MAFS responsible for Mr T's losses as he could not 
have invested as he did if MAFS hadnt recommended he switch his pensions to the SIPP.Investments made through S
MAFS has argued in any event that Mr T didn't suffer any loss until his funds were 
disinvested from B and invested in an account with S, through which the Optima bonds were 
purchased. MAFS says its adviser had no involvement in this  the investments were instead 
arranged by Mr B, the unregulated introducer, and Mr T. It points to letters signed by Mr T 
which confirmed the account with S had been set up on an execution only basis.
However, I think MAFS misrepresented Mr Bs status as the 'introducing Adviser' to Mr T in 
the January 2016 retirement planning report. And I think this has had a significant impact 
here.
The FCA states in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that MAFSs adviser, Mr M, 
had a duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
Mr T (COBS 2.1.1R). And I think this would include making it clear to him that Mr B wasnt 
regulated in any capacity to carry out investment activities, which Mr M was well aware of. 
I think Mr T shouldve been warned that if he chose to engage with Mr B further, he wouldnt 
be protected by any of the regulatory bodies nor would any of the recommendations made 
by Mr B be endorsed by MAFS.
It is clear to me that Mr M allowed Mr B to continue to be involved with arranging the 
investments long after the introduction had been made, and Mr T has told us he mostly dealt 
with Mr B and didn't appreciate he wasn't regulated. If Mr T had been made aware of Mr Bs 
status as an unregulated introducer, and that he had no connection to MAFS or any other 
regulated firm, I dont think he wouldve signed any documents provided by Mr B or engaged 
with him any further after his introduction to MAFS. So, I think its very unlikely Mr T wouldve 
invested with S but for Mr Bs involvement and Mr Ts cooperation with him.
Notwithstanding the above, Ive also seen clear evidence demonstrating that MAFS was 
aware that an account with S had been set up before any investments were made and that it 
facilitated the investments. Ive seen a copy of an email from the MAFSs adviser, Mr M, on 
3 March 2016 in response to an email from the SIPP provider about Mr T and another client 
stating, Please set up a [S] account for both clients. Ive also seen an email from MAFSs 
administrator, Ms M, on 8 March 2016 stating, "Please could you send £100,000 to [S], and 
the balance to [B]..." 
So, I think the above evidence demonstrates the account with S was set up on MAFS's 
instruction. This was a significant deviation from the advice given to Mr T by MAFS, which 
recommended the entirety of the funds should be invested with B in its model portfolio. Mr T 
had agreed to pay for advice on an ongoing basis, so I wouldve expected to see some kind 
of audit trail to explain the deviation from the advice or indeed whether the advice had 
changed. The above evidence shows that in addition to arranging the account with S to be 
opened, MAFS then arranged for £100,000 to be transferred to the account with S on 
8 March 2016. The first £100,000 was invested in Optima bonds on 15 March 2016.
MAFS hasnt provided any evidence to show that Mr T instructed MAFS to open the account 
with S or transfer funds to it. MAFS also denies that Mr M advised Mr T to do this. So, in the 
absence of another explanation, it seems likely to me that MAFS was acting on the 
instructions of Mr B at this point. Although I havent seen evidence in relation to Mr T, 
I understand it was not unusual practice for Mr B to provide investment instructions directly 
to MAFS for customers hed introduced to it. Given the investment via S went against 
MAFSs earlier advice, and Mr T says Mr B continued to be involved, I think this is the most 
likely explanation here.Mr B should not have had any say or influence over where Mr Ts funds were invested. 
MAFS was aware that Mr B was not regulated to give any investment advice, and moreover, 
Mr T was MAFSs client  he was paying for ongoing advice and oversight of his pension. 
So, MAFS should not have acted on any instruction from the introducer about where Mr Ts 
money should be sent. And at the very least, MAFS ought to have questioned why Mr T was 
suddenly investing his funds elsewhere, against the very recent advice hed received from 
Mr M.
I know that a number of letters were sent to S, signed by Mr T, which gave instructions to 
purchase the Optima bonds in February 2016 and September 2016. But the only way this 
couldve actually happened was by MAFS facilitating it. As Ive shown above, MAFS 
instructed the SIPP provider to open the account with S in the first place, and then instructed 
it to send £100,000 to the account. So, but for MAFS's involvement, the purchase of the 
bonds wouldnt have gone ahead. And as Mr T's adviser, MAFS ought to have taken a view 
on whether the intended investments were suitable for Mr T.
I also wouldve expected MAFS to have contacted Mr T to establish what, if anything, he 
knew about these transactions. I have significant reason to doubt that Mr T wrote the letters, 
or that he saw the text before signing the pages. This is because the letters are more or less 
identical (same format and font) to those sent to S by, or on behalf of, other clients of MAFS 
who also had dealings with Mr B. Had MAFS, as Mr Ts adviser, contacted Mr T about the 
instructions to open an account with S and send a significant amount of money to it, I think 
its likely MAFS wouldve discovered Mr T was possibly acting under Mr Bs influence, or that 
the letters sent to the S may have been written and sent without his knowledge. 
The investment in the Optima bonds through S (an illiquid corporate bond) wasnt suitable 
for Mr T  MAFS accepts this and said it would not have recommended he invest in them. 
And despite the influence of Mr B here, I think if MAFS had warned Mr T against any 
investment via S, Mr T wouldve most likely followed that advice. I say this because he had a 
medium attitude to risk and no real capacity for loss, and the Optima bonds were highly 
speculative. I think MAFSs recommendation wouldve carried significant weight and could, 
I believe, have dissuaded Mr T from proceeding with the switch and subsequent 
investments.
Overall, if MAFS had acted in Mr T's best interests and given him suitable advice throughout, 
I don't think the account with S would've been opened and I don't think Mr T would've 
invested as he did. On balance, I think he wouldve instead consolidated his pensions in the 
FRP and invested in funds in line with his medium attitude to risk.
DFM involvement
I recognise that MAFS has said that B and Ss actions may have also separately caused 
some of Mr Ts loss. So, I have considered whether I should apportion only part of the 
responsibility for compensating the loss to MAFS. In the circumstances, though, I think it fair 
to make an award for the whole loss against MAFS.
I think MAFS advised with complete disregard for Mr Ts interests given it facilitated the 
opening of the account with S and did not question or give any advice as to the suitability of 
the investments to be made through it. MAFS also continued to take fees from the 
investment that it should have been monitoring. So, anything that B or S might also have 
done wrong doesnt make it reasonable in the circumstances of this case for MAFS to avoid 
compensating for the losses they may have gone on to cause. So, I think holding MAFS fully  
responsible for the whole of Mr Ts loss represents fair compensation in this case.Im aware Mr T may be able to take his claims about B and S to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
As a scheme of last resort, its possible the FSCS wont pay out if a third party could also be 
held liable. This means an apportionment of only part of the loss to MAFS could risk leaving 
Mr T out of pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im not saying MAFS is wholly 
responsible for the losses simply because B and S are now in liquidation. My starting point 
as to causation is that MAFS gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mr T 
suffered in switching his existing pensions to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to 
my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair 
and reasonable position. With this in mind  and recognising also that Mr T wouldnt have 
lost out at all but for MAFSs failings and that MAFS benefitted financially from advising on 
this transaction  I think MAFS being responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair 
compensation in this case.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr T would have invested differently. On balance, I think suitable advice would have 
been for Mr T to switch his other pensions to his FRP with S. Its not possible to say 
precisely how his funds wouldve been invested thereafter, but Im satisfied that what Ive set 
out below is fair and reasonable given Mr T's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
What must MAFS do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, MAFS must:
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
MAFS should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, MAFS should pay into Mr T's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If MAFS is unable to pay the compensation into Mr T's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr T would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.Pay Mr T £500 for the disruption to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If MAFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. MAFS should give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case.
MAFS should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the pension provider. The amount MAFS pays should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If MAFS is unable to purchase the portfolio, the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of the calculation. MAFS may require that Mr T provides an undertaking to pay 
MAFS any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan.
MAFS will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
MAFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive 
set out above how this might be achieved by MAFS taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr T can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that will 
take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If MAFS is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr T an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr T's circumstances and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that Martin Aitken 
Financial Services Limited pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. 
My decision is that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including distress or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited pays Mr T the balance 
plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
If Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any 
investment currently illiquid should be retained by Mr T. This is until any future benefit that 
he may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Martin Aitken 
Financial Services Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.
Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited may request an undertaking from Mr T that either 
he repays to Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited any amount Mr T may receive from the 
portfolio thereafter, or if possible transfers the investment to MAFS at that point.
Mr T should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman