DRN-3015641
The complaint
Mr Q has complained about the delays with G2I Ltd trading as GOT2INSURE in dealing with 
his claim under his motor policy for the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr Q had a motor policy with G21 from 11 August 2020. His car which he had brought in 
June 2020 was stolen from his home on 1 September 2020. The thief breaking and entering 
his home, stealing the car keys and then his car. His claim with G21 wasnt settled until 
January 2021. G21 also gave him £200 compensation.
Mr Q complained about the delay. But G21 didnt think it had done anything wrong. So, he 
brought his complaint to us. The investigator also didnt think G21 had done anything wrong. 
Mr Q didnt agree, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
I do agree that Mr Qs claim took too long to conclude, however I dont consider that was 
down to anything G21 did wrong.
All theft claims do need to be fully investigated in order to limit fraudulent claims. It not 
unusual that investigators meet with the claimant and interview them either. The 
investigators that met with Mr Q told G21 to obtain the police report.
Sadly, there was a considerable in delay from the police in dealing with G21s request. Ive 
seen G21s file and its clear it chased the police for their report regularly. And its also not 
unusual for there be such delays in getting police reports either. But this cant be G21s fault. 
To complete its investigations, it needed the police report. Most importantly, I havent seen 
any evidence that it used the wrong form initially to request it, as Mr Q believes, thereby 
causing this delay or adding to it. 
Further because of the delay, G21 then took the decision to pay Mr Qs claim without the 
police report. I consider this reasonable given the delay by the police in furnishing its report. 
But I also consider it was reasonable G21 asked for the police report. This means the delay 
in getting the police report and ultimately settling Mr Qs wasnt because G21 did anything 
wrong. So, unless I find that G21 did anything wrong, theres nothing I can ask it to do for Mr 
Q.
Finally, G21 paid Mr Q the value of his car as at the date of the theft. This was also the right 
thing to do. It did consider the delay adversely affected Mr Q and it did consider it should 
have done more to keep him updated. So, for this it paid him £200 compensation. 
This is around the same level of compensation Ive awarded in similar cases. Therefore, 
since G21 has paid this level of compensation to Mr Q, Im not asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman