DRN-3349190
The complaint
Miss J complained because fraudulent transactions continued on her Santander UK plc 
account, even after shed repeatedly reported them. 
What happened
From February to May 2021, a number of debits were made to Mis Js Santander current 
account. They were all to the same online merchant, and ranged from £350 to £1,400. 
Every time a debit was made, Miss J reported to Santander that she hadnt authorised it. 
Santander accepted that the transactions were fraudulent, and refunded all the debits, 
generally the same day, or within a few days. Each time, it also blocked Miss Js card and 
issued her a new card with a different number. But this didnt stop the debits happening 
again.
Miss J also contacted the merchant herself, but it just told her to obtain records of the 
disputed transactions from Santander.
In March 2021, Miss J complained. Santander replied that it had taken the relevant steps to 
try to stop payments debiting Miss Js new card. But it said it couldnt guarantee that the 
merchant wouldnt take payments from the replacement card. Santander said it was sorry for 
the inconvenience Miss J had had, and it paid her £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
But the debits continued. In total Santander blocked nine cards, and Miss J received eight 
replacement cards between the start of March and end of May 2021. Miss J complained to 
this service.
In June 2021, Santander closed Miss Js current account and opened a replacement 
account for her. No further debits were taken.
Our investigator upheld Miss Js complaint. She recognised that Santander had refunded 
each payment soon after Miss J had reported it. And she said that it was unlikely Santander 
could have prevented future payments debiting the account, because there was no record of 
when future payments would be taken. 
But the investigator thought that Santander should have realised, earlier than it did, that it 
was most likely that the payments were whats called a Continuous Payment Authority 
(CPA). These are set up using a customers card details, but give the merchant permission 
to take multiple amounts, not just a single payment. Importantly, a CPA is linked to the 
account, not to an individual card. The investigator said she thought this was why Santander 
issuing new cards didnt solve the problem  which was only resolved when Miss Js account 
was closed and a replacement opened instead.
As the investigator thought Santander should have realised that it was a CPA, she thought 
Santander should pay Miss J compensation. Miss J provided more information about the 
inconvenience shed suffered. She explained that shed had to borrow money from relatives 
while waiting for her new debit cards. Shed also had to us another account, which she only 
used for household bills, and to use this shed had to ring Santander, or go to a branch to 
transfer money. This was very time consuming, and difficult to do when she had a busy job. 
So the investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to pay Miss J £250 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Santander agreed, but Miss J said it wasnt enough. 
So the complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this case arent in dispute, and what Im deciding is how much compensation 
would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
I can understand that Miss J was frustrated and upset when repeated large payments kept 
debiting her account. Shes told us that, in the gaps between her card being stopped, and 
the replacement arriving, she couldnt access her account and had to borrow from relatives. 
And I recognise it would have been very inconvenient to have to use a different account, and 
to phone Santander or go to a branch, especially when she had a busy life and it  wasnt 
easy to take the necessary time from work.
However, Ive also taken into account that Santander acted promptly when Miss J disputed 
the payments. It refunded her the same day that she reported them, or within a few days. 
And it issued a replacement card each time. 
And CPAs can be difficult to stop, as they are very different from direct debits or standing 
orders. They also werent identified as CPAs, so Santander wouldnt automatically have 
known this was what they were  only when a pattern of repeated debits happened. Its also 
only fair to say that much of the upset which Miss J suffered was ultimately caused by the 
merchant which kept debiting repeat payments which Miss J hadnt authorised.
But I do think that after a number of these payments had gone through, Santander might 
reasonably have realised that they might be CPAs. This alone wouldnt have been enough to 
stop them, and nor was changing the card to a different number. Ultimately only closing Miss 
Js account and reopening it with a new account would stop the CPAs. But I think that 
Santander could reasonably have taken this step before it did in June 2021.
Taking these factors into account, I find that £250 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Santander has already paid Miss J £50, leaving a further £200 to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Santander UK plc to pay Miss J 
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. It has already paid her £50, leaving a 
further £200 compensation to pay. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman