DRN-2258853
The complaint
Mr M complains that Funding Circle Ltd were responsible for delays in transferring his 
innovative finance ISA. He says he has lost out financially due to the delays. 
What happened
In November 2018, Mr M sent a request to Funding Circle to transfer his ISA funds from 
another provider. Funding Circle acknowledged receipt of the relevant transfer form and told 
him it would contact his existing provider  and the transfer should take 15 working days.  
In June 2019, Mr M contacted Funding Circle to explain that he had requested a transfer in 
the Autumn, but the funds still hadnt been transferred or any explanation for the delay been 
provided. 
Funding Circle responded and explained it received the ISA transfer form on 7 November 
2018, which was processed and sent across to the existing provider the same day. But as it 
has not heard back the transfer was not actioned. Funding Circle apologised for not chasing 
this up. When it contacted the existing provider, it said it hadnt received the transfer form. 
Mr M responded that he had lost out financially due to the delay. 
When Mr M realised the transfer hadnt completed, he found out his existing ISA had lost 
value. He says during the time the transfer was delayed the value of the fund he was trying 
to transfer out of fell and by June 2019 no transfers out were possible as the fund was 
suspended. 
Funding Circle didnt agree to compensate Mr M for the loss in value on is ISA because of 
the delayed transfer. It said it offered Mr M £50 in compensation to recognise its failure to 
chase the transfer up. After this Mr M referred his complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She upheld the complaint because she 
thought Funding Circle should have chased the existing provider for the transfer funds 
sooner. So, she thought it was responsible for the failed transfer. She also thought Mr M 
could have mitigated his losses had he contacted Funding Circle during the period to 
establish if the transfer had taken place. For this reason, she recommended that Funding 
Circle cover 50% of the losses Mr M has suffered as a result of the transfer not taking place.  
Funding Circle didnt agree with the investigator. It said holding Funding Circle to be partially 
responsible for the financial loss suffered by Mr Ms investment through another provider is 
both disproportionate and unreasonable. It believes the losses Mr M has suffered are too 
remote for it to be reasonably foreseeable from the mistake it made in not chasing up the 
transfer. Also, its terms and conditions dont say it will chase missing transfers. It only follows 
up transfer requests as a good customer service policy. And it made a fair offer of 
compensation to recognise its failure to chase things up.
As no agreement could be reached, Funding Circle asked for an ombudsman to make a 
decision on the complaint. 
Mr M didnt provide any comments on the investigators view or proposed redress. He did 
provide confirmation that in December 2020 he had received a distribution from the 
suspended fund in his existing ISA and there was potential for a further payment. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Funding Circle has explained that in order to action an ISA transfer from an existing ISA held 
elsewhere, investors needed to fill in a transfer form on their Funding Circle account. Mr M 
did this and received confirmation from Funding Circle that the form was received, and it 
would be sent to his existing ISA provider to complete the transfer.  
Funding Circle says that its usual policy was to call ISA providers in the event that funds 
were not successfully received within 14 days of the initial request being sent to understand 
what had occurred, and ensure the funds were transferred. 
In the circumstances of Mr Ms transfer, Funding Circle has accepted that it failed to chase 
up the transfer request when it didnt hear from the existing ISA. It has said this was due to 
an administration error not pulling through data, meaning the transfer wasnt chased. The 
existing provider said it didnt receive the request, so didnt take any action. Because of this 
the transfer didnt complete. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there were errors made by 
Funding Circle. So, my findings will concentrate on what, if anything, Funding Circle needs to 
do to put things right for Mr M. 
Funding Circle says a compensation payment of £50 is reasonable to recognise the impact 
of its failure to chase up and process the transfer Mr M requested. But Mr M thinks it is 
responsible for the financial loss he suffered as a result of the transfer not going ahead at 
the time he completed the transfer form.  
Ive considered whether Funding Circles failings have resulted in Mr M suffering a financial 
loss. Mr M says when he made his transfer request in 2018, it was his intention to transfer 
the proceeds of a specific fund (Ill call it Fund W)  but not transfer all of the funds in his 
ISA. The transfer form Mr M completed does request a partial transfer and an approximate 
balance of £14,557. However, it doesnt provide details of a specific fund. Mr M says it was 
his intention to just transfer the money he had in Fund W and to support this hes provided a 
statement from his existing ISA provider. The statement shows the value of his ISA in late 
October 2018. It shows that Mr M was invested in nine different funds. The value of Fund W 
was shown in the statement as approximately £14,500 at this time. None of the other funds 
had a balance close to the amount detailed on the transfer request. So, I think this evidence 
does support Mr Ms testimony that it was his intention to use the proceeds from Fund W to 
complete the partial transfer.  
By the time time Mr M says he realised the transfer hadnt completed, in June 2019, the 
value of money he had in Fund W had disappeared as the fund had been suspended. He 
considers this loss to be as a result of Funding Circles failure to action the transfer request 
he made more than six months earlier. Based on the available evidence, I think it is 
reasonable to say had Funding Circle chased up the transfer with the existing provider the 
transfer would have occurred in November 2018  including clarification being gained on 
exactly what was to be transferred. Im not aware of a reason why Mr M wouldnt have been 
able to release the money from Fund W at the time he made his transfer request. So, I think 
it is fair to say Funding Circle does have a responsibility for the loss as but for its failings Ive 
found the transfer would have, on balance, completed. So, in November 2018 Mr M would have been able to receive the value of the money he held in his exiting ISA in Fund W into 
his innovative finance ISA with Funding Circle. 
Ive considered whether Funding Circle should carry full responsibility for the financial loss. 
On the one hand, I appreciate that Mr M expected the transfer to complete once he returned 
the transfer form. Indeed, the transfer form details a three-step process that says after 
returning the form Well handle the transfer from your existing ISA provider and add the 
funds to your account. But Im also conscious that he didnt receive any confirmation that it 
had been completed. Ive not seen anything to suggest he chased the transfer or followed up 
to ensure the correct funds were transferred. Funding Circle has also provided details of Mr 
Ms log-ins to his account and these show that he did access it in March 2019. So, it is 
possible that he would have realised the transfer hadnt completed before he raised it with 
Funding Circle in June 2019. I think there is a reasonable argument to say Mr M could have 
mitigated the extent of his losses. For this reason, I think it is fair that he shares some of the 
responsibility for the losses that he suffered when Fund W was suspended. I will discuss 
what this means in terms of compensation later in my decision. 
Funding Circle says Mr M could have liquidated his investment in Fund W at any time if he 
wanted to de-risk himself from the fund. And his decision to invest in this fund was his own  
along with accepting the associated risk. So, it doesnt think Mr Ms losses in Fund W were 
caused by Funding Circles oversight in not chasing the ISA transfer form. It says Mr M is 
responsible for the accounts he holds and the investment choices he makes. I appreciate the 
general point Funding Circle makes about Mr M being responsible for his investment choices 
(assuming Funding Circle wasnt giving him advice). But he did make a decision to transfer 
his funds away  and Ive accepted it was his intention to move out for Fund W  when he 
completed the transfer form. The failure of the funds not transferring wasnt caused by 
Mr Ms actions. As far as the evidence Ive seen, he followed the process that Funding Circle 
gave him. So I dont agree that the losses Mr M has suffered are all down to his investment 
choices. 
Ive noted Funding Circles comments that the losses Mr M suffered are too remote and not 
foreseeable from its error. It says that finding it responsible for losses sets an alarming 
precedent that any platform which does not facilitate an inbound ISA transfer is financially 
responsible for the performance of the money that remains. But I dont agree the losses 
Mr M suffered are too remote from the errors. It is entirely plausible small mistakes can have 
large impacts  particularly when money is being transferred. As Ive explained above, I find 
it reasonable in the circumstances that Mr M would have successfully transferred his holding 
in Fund W but for Funding Circles errors. I have accepted that Mr M could have mitigated 
his position, so for that reason I havent held Funding Circle responsible for the full loss. I 
also dont think my view in any way sets a precedent as Ive considered the matter entirely 
on the basis of the specific circumstances of the complaint  which, I think are quite unusual, 
with different characteristics to the more frequently encountered transfer delay type 
complaint.
Ive also noted Funding Circles comments about not accepting liability for failed transfers 
and not having a regulatory responsibility to chase transfers. Also, that its terms and 
conditions dont cover issues such as chasing for unreturned forms. However, it still had 
obligations under the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN). These set out the overarching 
requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with  which includes acting 
with due skill, care and diligence, as well as paying due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treating them fairly. Funding Circle has also told us that its internal process 
was to chase up the transfer when they didnt hear back from other providers. So, when 
thinking about what is fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this complaint, I dont find 
Mr M has been treated fairly by Funding Circle in the way it handled his transfer request. Having carefully considered the available evidence, Im satisfied Mr M was looking to 
transfer out of Fund W  and had the transfer proceeded correctly this information would 
have been clarified through the process. But in any event, I think this is ultimately simply a 
matter of there being a failing on the part of Funding Circle  not following up the transfer 
having committed to doing so  and it can be reasonably demonstrated that, but for that 
failing, the transfer would more likely than not have taken place within a couple of weeks 
after the transfer form was received by Funding Circle  and Mr M wouldve sold his 
investment in Fund W at that time.
Putting things right
The starting point is for Funding Circle to put Mr M into the position hed be in if the ISA 
transfer had competed in November 2018. In this type of situation, I would generally direct 
Funding Circle to pay the difference between the amount Mr M wouldve received if hed sold 
his holding in Fund W in November 2018 and the amount he received when he was actually 
able to sell it. But in this case, Mr M was unable to sell his holding after the fund was 
suspended. As such Mr Ms loss is the full amount he wouldve received if the transfer 
completed in November 2018. The precise date Mr Ms funds would be liquidated in 
November 2018 isnt known. But I think it is reasonable to assume Mr Ms investment in 
Fund W would have been liquidated at some point between the date Funding Circle sent the 
transfer form to the existing provider (7 November 2018) and shortly after the 14 days it said 
it would wait before chasing. So, a reasonable date to value the funds would be the day after 
the 14 days had passed (by which time a chase should have been made). Funding Circle will 
need to contact the existing provider to establish what Mr Ms holdings in Fund W were on 
22 November 2018. If it is unable to establish this value, it can use the figure Mr M quoted 
on the transfer form as a basis for the loss suffered. Its my understanding that, while the 
fund remains suspended, Mr M has received some distributions from Fund W. These should 
be deducted from the loss. Funding Circle will need to contact Mr M to establish exactly what 
distributions he has received to date. 
Following the above will establish Mr Ms loss. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Funding Circle is responsible for full amount. I only find that it is responsible for 50% of 
the loss  so it only needs to pay this amount to Mr M. 
As it is possible Mr M will receive further distributions from Fund W, Funding Circle may 
request an undertaking from him that he repays any amount he may receive from 
distributions in the future. This is because it wouldnt be fair for him to benefit from any future 
payments received from Fund W when hes already been compensated.
Finally, in respect of the distress caused by the failed transfer, Funding Circle has suggested 
it would normally pay £50 to customers for the impact of this error. It hasnt been able to 
provide confirmation of whether it did actually pay Mr M this amount. But in any case, this 
amount seems fair in the circumstances of this complaint. So if it hasnt already paid this to 
Mr M it should do so as part of the overall compensation for this complaint.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I direct Funding Circle Ltd to pay compensation using the 
methodology described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Daniel LittleOmbudsman