DRN-3747278
The complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly gave him a 
credit card limit increase and a new credit card account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 17 July 2015, Mr P opened a credit card account with Capital One with a credit limit of 
£200. The credit limit was raised to £450 on 26 November 2015 and to £950 on 7 October 
2016. 
On 21 November 2018, Mr P opened a second credit card account with Capital One with 
a credit limit of £500. 
In 2022, Mr P complained to Capital One to say that the credit increase to £950 in 
October 2016 and the new credit card in November 2018 should not have been given to 
him because they werent affordable and that Capital One ought to have made a better 
effort to understand his financial circumstances before providing increased levels of 
credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr P didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Its possible that Capital One could have made more searching enquiries in its checks 
before providing Mr P with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would 
have caused Capital One to think the credit it provided was unaffordable. I explain why I say 
that below.
The credit limit increase to £950.
Mr Ps complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. Capital 
One has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer. It also took notice of how the account was being 
managed by Mr P. In the 14 months before the credit limit increase Mr P had only one fee 
for being over limit and one for a late payment. In that time Mr Ps payments were regularly 
over the minimum amount. So, there was insufficient in the way that Mr P was managing his 
account to put Capital One off giving him a credit increase. 
Capital Ones credit check didnt suggest Mr P was having sufficient issues with his other 
credit that they should avoid increasing his credit limit. It seemed to Capital One from the 
credit information they sourced that, at the point that the lending decision was made, Mr P 
was affording his existing credit. And so, Capital One were not put on notice of any reason 
not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the information that Capital One 
had at the time of the lending decision would have led them to feel they ought to make more 
searching enquiries of Mr Ps expenditure. 
From the full credit file that Mr P has provided us, I can see that Mr P had one late payment 
to a service account but that was nearly a year before the increase. And I can see that a 
loan provider had two late payments shortly before the credit increase. But I also notice that 
the account had been returned to good order at the time of the credit increase. So, its not 
clear to me that fuller credit information would have lead Capital One to make a decision 
different to the one they made.
So, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Capital One to think the credit increase 
was unaffordable. In saying this I have also considered that the credit increase was modest 
and the monthly payments for that credit would have been relatively modest. Prior to the 
increase the account was being well managed. And Mr P told Capital One that he earned a 
good salary at the time the credit was provided. And I have not seen evidence of financial 
difficulties at those times to make me think that Capital One would have been put off 
providing a reasonably modest credit increase on the credit card.   
The new credit card in 2018
Capital One has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer when offering the new credit card. It also 
took notice of how the account was being managed by Mr P. In the 22 months before the 
credit limit increase Mr P had only two fees for being over limit and no issues in the 10 
months before the card was provided. In that time Mr Ps payments were regularly over the 
minimum amount. So, there was insufficient in the way that Mr P was managing his account 
to put Capital One off giving him a new credit card.
Capital Ones credit check didnt suggest Mr P was having sufficient issues with his other 
credit that they should avoid increasing his credit limit. It seemed to Capital One from the 
credit information they sourced that, at the point that the lending decision was made, Mr P 
was affording his existing credit. And so, Capital One were not put on notice of any reason 
not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the information that Capital One 
had at the time of the lending decision would have led them to feel they ought to make more 
searching enquiries of Mr Ps expenditure. 
And from the full credit file that Mr P has provided us, I can see that Mr P had an issue with 
only one provider in the twelve months before the credit card. Whilst there is a little 
disagreement between the credit agencies about the extent of the issues, they do say that 
at worst there were no issues with that loan provider in the six months before the credit 
card. And there were no issues with that loan after the credit card was issued until the loan 
was settled the following year. So, its not clear to me that fuller credit information would 
have lead Capital One to make a decision different to the one they made.So, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Capital One to think the credit increase 
was unaffordable. In saying this I have also considered that prior to the increase the account 
was being well managed. And Mr P told Capital One that he earned a good salary  an 
increase on the previous salary - at the time the credit was provided. And I have not seen 
evidence of financial difficulties at those times to make me think that Capital One would 
have been put off providing the new credit card. Neither have I seen an amount of existing 
credit that made the addition of the new credit card automatically irresponsible.    
But, considering the amount of the total credit Capital One was providing, I think that Capital 
One could have made more searching enquiries into Mr Ps income. I say this as the 
regulations suggest that they could have sought corroboration for the declared income. But 
had they sought clarification through payslips, I do not believe that what they would have 
seen anything that would have made the new potential lending seem unreasonable. 
Mr P thinks that Capital One should have checked his bank statements at the time of the 
lending decisions. Mr P thinks that had Capital One done so, they would have seen 
evidence of gambling activity on the account and of short-term lending. I dont think 
Capital One were required to, nor would it have been proportionate to, review Mr Ps 
bank statements. 
Mr P has explained that he had a gambling habit at the time, which was the prime cause of 
his existing borrowings, some of which were short term lending. But Mr P had not told 
Capital One about the gambling habit. And, as discussed above, the gambling habit had not 
led Mr P to blemish his credit file such that Capital One were on notice to make more 
searching enquiries about Mr Ps expenditure. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Capital One at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. Capital One was not made aware of the gambling 
that affected Mr P at the time the lending decisions were made. And I have seen insufficient 
evidence that the other information that Capital One acquired or had presented to it at the 
time of the lending decision, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not 
checking Mr Ps expenditure more closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr P to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Capital One to think that the credit it 
provided Mr P was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what Capital One could 
see of his management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently 
than it did. 
I know that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, because he has put time and energy 
into his complaint, and because he has experience of having other complaints found in his 
favour. But each case is considered on the particular details and circumstances of that 
complaint. I want Mr P to know that I have noted all the submissions made in this case. 
Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman