DRN-3132539
The complaint
Mr S complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited declined a claim for a broken car 
key under his home contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S says he arranged his policy through a comparison website online, selecting the option 
for additional key cover. In March 2021 he made a claim for his sons car key that had been 
broken. He says he was told to buy a replacement and send the receipt to a specific claims 
department, for a refund to be provided. After buying the new key he was told his policy 
didnt cover this. 
Hastings says it has no record of the initial contact from Mr S. It says it did receive a phone 
call from him in mid-April 2021, after the key had been purchased. At this time its call 
handler failed to identify the policy didnt provide the necessary cover. The call was then 
transferred to a claims team in error. For this service failure it offered Mr S complimentary 
key cover and compensation of £30 but declined to pay for the replacement key. 
Mr S says Hastings gave him a claim number and instructions on where to send the receipt. 
He queries how he would know this if it hadnt provided this information to him. Hastings 
says it doesnt recognise the reference number Mr S has provided, and maintains it has no 
record of any earlier contact. It also says its likely Mr S will have replaced the key regardless 
of whether he was able to claim or not.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. 
Based on the available information he says there was insufficient evidence to conclude 
Hastings told Mr S to purchase a new key or told him that a refund would be provided under 
his policy. He thought it likely that a new car key would be bought even if Mr S was aware 
that no cover was in place. Our investigator decided Hastings offer of compensation was fair 
for the service failure identified.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. It has now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand this is not the 
outcome Mr S wanted, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I take a different view to our investigator, in that I think its likely Mr S was told by Hastings 
hed receive a refund for the replacement key. I say this because the mobile phone records 
he supplied show calls were made to Hastings contact number in early March 2021. Calls to 
the same number are also shown ten days later. This is same day the replacement key was 
bought, which is confirmed by the receipt. I think this shows Mr S spoke to the company 
earlier than its records indicate.
Its not clear why Hastings has no record of these calls. But I think its likely that Mr S was 
told he could obtain a refund. This was a mistake, as his policy schedule confirms only 
standard cover was in place. This doesnt include the additional key protection cover for car 
keys. 
Hastings explains a claim for keys under its standard cover would be dealt with by its partner 
company. This is the company Mr S later contacted for a refund. He has explained he was 
told to do this by Hastings when he first made contact. Its possible some confusion occurred 
regarding the kind of key Mr S was claiming for. But I think this adds weight to his account of 
events, that he was told to contact the partner company to claim a refund for the 
replacement key.  
I have thought about the impact this had and whether its fair for Hastings to pay for the 
replacement key, assuming Mr S was promised a refund. 
Mr S has told us that his son only had one key for his car. He says this is the key that was 
broken, which is why it needed replacing. However, he also told us he wouldnt have bought 
another key had it been explained that he wasnt covered. I note his comment that he later 
managed to repair the broken key using glue and tape.  
I acknowledge what Mr S has said. But having considered this, I think Hastings view that he 
would have bought a replacement regardless of being covered, is persuasive. If there was a 
spare key I might think differently. But in the circumstances described its reasonable to 
accept the average person would want the key replaced. This is reflected in Mr Ss 
comments that a replacement was needed because it was the only one. 
The policy documentation Mr S received from Hastings confirms cover for broken car keys 
isnt included. I accept inaccurate information was probably given by Hastings call handler. 
But I think Mr S will have need to buy a replacement key anyway. This is a loss of 
expectation as opposed to an actual financial loss. So, I dont think its fair for the company 
to pay for the replacement key. 
I do think Mr S should be compensated for the loss of expectation and inconvenience he 
experienced because of the mistakes made in the handling of his claim. But I think Hastings 
offer to provide the additional key cover on his policy without charge, and make a payment 
for £30, is fair. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman