DRN-4414819
The complaint
Ms F complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) handled her claim
poorly after a leak damaged her kitchen floor, under her home buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2022 a pipe beneath Ms Fs kitchen floor leaked, causing damage to the wooden
flooring. She contacted Lloyds, in May, to make a claim. She says Lloyds appointed several
contractors to assess the damage. After a number of months, she was asked to source
replacement flooring, as it was determined a repair of the existing flooring wasnt possible.
Ms F identified similar flooring from searching the internet. She sent this information to
Lloyds, and it was going to order it on her behalf.
Ms F says the cost of the flooring had increased since shed first looked at it in May 2022. As
a result, Lloyds wanted to consider cheaper options. None were suitable, so it was
eventually agreed to use the supplier Ms F had identified. This was in late November. Due to
the lead time to order the flooring, and to avoid disruption to her kitchen over Christmas and
the winter, Ms F asked that work be delayed until March 2023.
When the work commenced Ms F noticed the flooring was different to what she thought
shed ordered. It had a bevelled edge as opposed to the square edge of her existing flooring.
She identified the supplier had included an incorrect photo with the online advert. Ms F says
she based her choice of flooring partly on the photo the supplier had used. This looked like
the existing flooring from her kitchen, which is why she chose it.
Ms F wanted the newly installed flooring to be removed and replaced on a like-for-like basis
with her previous flooring. She also raised concerns with the temporary kitchen pod Lloyds
provided, whilst the repairs were underway. She says this shorted out when more than one
appliance was used. And that it wasnt a suitable alternative to her kitchen for any length of
time. In addition, shed had to arrange and pay for parking permits for Lloydss contractors to
use. She says she wasnt advised of this in advance.
In its final complaint response dated 13 April 2023, Lloyds said the supplier wouldnt agree to
replace the flooring. It says its contractor is expected to assess whether the materials used
are like-for-like in terms of quality. But it isnt expected to challenge a customers choice
based on the type of edging. It says customers sometimes want something different to the
materials previously in place. It says it wont dispute this as long as there isnt an element of
betterment in the choice of materials selected.
Lloyds says the flooring is fit for purpose and represents a reasonable replacement under
Ms Fs policy.
In its complaint response Lloyds offered to review the kitchen pod facility Ms F was supplied
with (repairs were ongoing at this point) to see if other options were available. It also offered
£75 for the confusion regarding parking permits.
Ms F didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator
didnt uphold her complaint. She says Lloyds isnt responsible for replacing the flooring as it
isnt responsible for the error with the choice of materials. She says Lloyds had agreed to
refund the parking permit costs, which is fair. She acknowledged Lloyds offer of £75
compensation and considered this a fair resolution to Ms Fs complaint.
Ms F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. Its been passed to 
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Ms Fs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) DISP rules state that our service cant look at a
complaint unless the business has first had the opportunity to respond. This means I can
consider the issues raised by Ms F up to the date of Lloydss final complaint response on 13
April 2023.
I understand that issues regarding her claim have continued beyond this date. These issues
will need to be subject to a separate complaint. If Ms F isnt satisfied with Lloydss response,
she can refer the matter to our service at this point.
Having considered the evidence my intention is to uphold Ms Fs complaint in part. Let me
explain.
Flooring
The crux of Ms Fs complaint is that Lloydss contractor has replaced the damaged floor with
a different type of flooring. Ive looked at the photos of the new floor. There is a groove
where the sections of flooring join. Ms F refers to a bevelled finish. I can see the original
flooring didnt have this groove. The flooring abutted squarely without any gaps. Ms F says
the new flooring isnt suitable for a kitchen. The grooves will allow spills to enter into the
wood, potentially causing it to warp. She says its also much harder to clean.
I can understand why Ms F doesnt want the new flooring for the reasons shes given.
However, I can see from the claim records that Lloydss contractor felt the flooring was fit for
purpose and of a similar quality to that Ms F previously had in place. The records show
Lloydss contractor contacted the supplier, but it wouldnt agree to replace the flooring.
Its clear from the information Ms F provided that the supplier made a mistake. It used the
wrong photo on the webpage advertising the flooring Ms F chose. This shows the flooring
has a square edge, whereas it actually has a bevelled edge.
I acknowledge Ms Fs comments that although she chose the flooring and provided the link 
she did so based on the colour and photo on the webpage. She says no-one contacted her
to check that the flooring was correct.
I can understand Ms Fs frustration. She chose a product that appeared to be correct based
on the photo provided. Shes now left with flooring she didnt want and doesnt consider
appropriate. Ive thought about whether Lloydss or its contractor shouldve contacted Ms F
to check whether the flooring was correct before fitting it. But I dont think there was reasonfor it to do this.
Lloydss terms and conditions say it will provide new replacement items that are like-for-like.
It says it will try for an exact match but if it cant find an exact match, itll replace with the
nearest equivalent.
I can see that Lloyds contractor confirmed the flooring was of a like-for-like quality. There
were some initial queries as the cost of the flooring had increased significantly in recent
months. Ms F was asked to consider cheaper options. However, the flooring was eventually
accepted to be of a similar quality to that of Ms Fs damaged flooring.
I think Lloyds makes a reasonable argument that it wouldnt be expected to query whether
the flooring was still suitable because it had a bevelled edge. It says customers sometimes
choose different materials from those being replaced. I dont think this is an unreasonable
approach. Ms F was able to choose the flooring she wanted. Lloyds would only question this
if there was an element of betterment.
Its clear Ms F provided the link to the flooring she wanted. Lloyds then ordered it and
arranged for it to be installed. In these circumstances, although Ms Fs situation is
unfortunate, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong. So, I dont think it should be responsible
for the cost of replacing the flooring.
Ive thought about the time taken to progress Ms Fs claim. I can see Lloyds wanted to
initially see if the damaged flooring could be repaired. I note Ms Fs comments that it was
clear to her that the warped wood couldnt be repaired to a good standard. However, I dont
think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to first assess if this was possible.
That said, it wasnt until the end of September 2022 that an assessor decided a repair wasnt
possible. The claim was registered in May. This means it took five months to make this
decision. Ive not seen a reasonable explanation as to why this took so long. I can see Ms F
refused to allow a contractor to attempt a repair in August 2022. She says shed already
explained to Lloyds that an assessment would be okay to see if a repair was possible. But
she didnt agree for a repair to be attempted, without having an assessment first and being
able to consider the options.
There were further delays whilst Lloyds asked for cheaper alternatives to be considered. And
whilst it was determined if the kitchen would need to be removed to replace the flooring, and
how this would happen. Eventually it was agreed the alternative flooring options werent
suitable, and Ms Fs choice was accepted.
Ms Fs kitchen was still usable during this period. However, progress of her claim was very
slow. I can see that Ms F was in regular contact with Lloyds during this period. We expect
Lloyds to handle claims effectively, avoiding unnecessary delays. In this case I think
progress shouldve been quicker. This has inconvenienced Ms F unnecessarily. In these
circumstances it should pay her compensation to acknowledge the impact this had.
Kitchen pod
Ms F says the kitchen pod provided whilst works were underway was very limited. She has a
gas hob, so her pans werent compatible with the pods induction hob. The pod only came
with was two pans and a kettle. She says the pod door handle was broken. Ms F also
describes how the electrics would trip if she used more than one appliance. For example,
this prevented her using the washing machine and dishwasher at the same time. Ms F says
it also meant paying for electricity to heat the pod, which was situated on her garden patio.Some level of disruption and inconvenience is inevitable in these circumstances. As
discussed, Lloyds is expected to handle claims effectively to avoid unnecessary delays and
disruption. Its reasonable that it provided a kitchen pod whilst the repair works were
underway. This allowed Ms F to continue living in her home and have some kitchen facilities.
I dont doubt that the facilities were inferior to the use of her full kitchen. But I dont think the
provision of a kitchen pod was unreasonable. I understand the repairs were expected to take
just over two weeks. I think a kitchen pod was a reasonable solution for this period.
That said Id expect the pod to be in full working order. And that energy costs would be paid
as part of the claim. I can see that Ms F raised the concerns she had with Lloyds. In its
complaint response it offered to review the kitchen pod facility. I think this was reasonable.
But Ms F was left dealing with these issues for a period whilst her kitchen couldnt be used. I
think its fair that Lloyds provides a compensation payment for the inconvenience this
caused.
Parking
The claim records indicate Lloyds has paid Ms F back for the parking permits she arranged. I
can see it also offered her £75 compensation, which she refused.
Its not reasonable that Ms F had to arrange and then pay for the contractors parking. This
was part of the cost involved in the claim. Its appropriate that Lloyds repaid these fees and
offered compensation. I think £75 was fair, which should now be paid to Ms F.
In summary I dont think Lloyds treated Ms F fairly given the delays and contact required on
her part to progress the claim. There were issues with the kitchen pod, which caused her
inconvenience. Lloyds also treated Ms F unfairly when failing to arrange and pay for its
contractors parking. To acknowledge these issues, it should pay Ms F £275 in addition to
the £75 compensation it originally offered. However, I dont think Lloyds behaved
unreasonably when it declined to replace the flooring it had fitted, for the reasons it gave.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and Lloyds should pay Ms F £275 
compensation. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Lloyds responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. 
Ms F didnt provide an further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Plc should:pay Ms F £275 in addition to the £75 it originally offered for the inconvenience it 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman