DRN-2451396
The complaint
Mr and Ms J complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has unfairly declined their claim 
for a stolen quad bike under their contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Ms J have a property with a large garden. They say they use their quad bike to 
maintain it. In July 2020 Mr and Ms J suffered a theft from an outbuilding at their property 
and their quad bike was stolen. No other items were stolen. They claimed on their contents 
insurance policy, but Ageas declined the claim. It said this was excluded under their policy 
terms and conditions, as motor vehicles werent covered.
Mr and Ms J didnt agree with Ageass reasoning and complained to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed their complaint and found that Ageas had acted unreasonably. 
She felt that Mr and Ms J did only use the quad bike for gardening purposes. Ageas didnt 
agree. So this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im satisfied that Mr and Ms Js quad bike should be considered as garden 
machinery due to it solely being used in the garden. Ill explain why.
The policy terms define contents as Household goods and personal possessions, within the 
home, which are your property or which you are legally liable for. Several different 
categories of contents are named. The policy terms specifically exclude motor vehicles 
(other than garden machinery) caravans, trailers or watercraft or their accessories. But they 
dont define motor vehicles. And they dont define garden machinery.
Mr and Ms J said they used the quad bike to assist with the collection of garden rubbish on 
their land. It was also used to pull a trailer with a mower on it. Mr J said he only used the 
quad bike to assist in the garden, so hes always considered it to be garden machinery. 
However, Ageas said that it was originally told that the quad bike was used for rounding up 
sheep. It said its sole use wasnt restricted to the carrying of gardening equipment or waste, 
as Mr and Ms J had told this service. But Ive not seen any evidence that the quad bike was 
used anywhere but the garden. 
I note that quad bikes are offered for sale on mainstream gardening websites. So while I 
agree that a quad bike isnt an obvious piece of garden machinery for many people, I dont 
agree that it doesnt fall into this category at all. I think its clear that Mr and Ms J bought and 
used their quad bike with the garden in mind.
In making its decision to decline the claim, Ageas said it considers the quad bike to be a
motor vehicle. Theyve used the description of it as being a propelled motor vehicle which
would mean its excluded under the contents cover. However, not all motor vehicles are 
excluded under the policy. The terms of the policy state that contents dont include motor 
vehicles other than garden machinery. The term Ageas relies on is silent on what garden 
machinery might be. If Ageas had intended to exclude quad bikes, regardless of what they 
were being used for, I think it would have been reasonable to make this clear in the policy 
terms. 
Ageas has said that it would be impossible for an insurer to define every term used, or to list 
every exclusion. So it said it expects people to consider both motor vehicles and garden 
machinery in terms of their usual meaning. It said that a motorised vehicle .is a vehicle 
driven or propelled by a motor. And that there are far too many types of motor vehicles to 
list. It also said that garden machinery is exactly what it sounds like: machinery used for 
gardening. It went on to explain that garden machinery has no other possible use. So, it 
said a sit on mower, which can only mow grass, is garden machinery. But a quad bike, which 
can be used for transportation in various situations, is not. 
While Ive taken everything Ageas has said on board, I note that it was within Ageass power 
to define garden machinery, without needing to list every possible item. It couldve simply 
said garden machinery is any machinery which has no other possible use outside the 
garden. So I dont think it was fair when Ageas declined the claim on the basis of the quad 
bike not being garden machinery.
Mr and Ms J said that the quad bike wasnt registered for use on the road, which they said 
proved they only used it in the garden. Ageas said this wasnt relevant. It felt that most quad 
bikes arent road legal. Ageas also said that there are a wide range of specific policies 
available to cover quad bikes, simply because they are excluded from cover within 
household insurance policies and because so many of them are not road legal. But Ageass 
contents insurance policy didnt explicitly exclude them from cover. And it didnt define 
garden machinery so that quad bikes could be excluded. So I dont think its fair for Ageas 
to decline the claim in the way it did. 
My final consideration is the value of the claim, and whether this breaches any policy limits. 
Mr J gave the value of the quad bike as £1,500. But Ageas noted that the replacement cost 
may be around £7,500. Section Two of the policy booklet details the contents covered. Part 
6 covers theft or attempted theft, and c) of that section states:
We will not pay any amount over £1,000 or 5% of the sum assured for contents whichever 
is the greater, within detached domestic outbuildings and garages.
The sum assured is listed as £34,070. So 5% of this is £1,703.50. So this represents the 
maximum claim for a theft from outbuildings before the excess is considered. 
 
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Ms Js complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited should now pay Mr and Ms Js 
claim to the policy limit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman