DRN-2813559
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a bed she has been financing through an agreement 
with Happy Customers Group Ltd (Happy), trading as Pay As You Go Carpets.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Happy, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired her bed under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the bed should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Happy, who are also the supplier of the bed, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. And when we 
think about what is satisfactory quality the relevant legislation explains that we should 
consider if the goods have been durable.
This was a new bed so I dont think a reasonable consumer would expect any faults to be 
present. And I dont think a reasonable person would think a bed that broke after only a few 
weeks of use was suitably durable.
Happy have suggested the bed broke because Miss M didnt follow the manufacturers 
instructions and didnt put anti slip pads under the supporting feet. Whilst I can understand 
the need for anti-slip pads to prevent the bed slipping on a hard floor; I cant understand why 
their absence would cause a leg to break. The instructions dont explain its necessary to fit 
anti slip pads for a reason other than to prevent slipping and the pads are not listed in the 
instructions as parts that are supplied with the bed. I think, if their absence was so important 
that the bed would break without them, they would be supplied, and the instructions would 
explain what could happen if they werent fitted. 
So, I dont think this bed was of satisfactory quality as I dont think it was suitably durable.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation explains that in those circumstances the business should be given 
an opportunity to repair the goods. But here I dont think thats a reasonable course of action.
I say that because Miss M has been waiting for a resolution to this matter for about a year 
and shes explained she could not sleep on a mattress on the floor indefinitely and had to 
buy another bed. I think thats understandable and it wouldnt be fair to repair a bed she no 
longer has any use for.
It also seems highly likely that this bed isnt repairable.
The mattress that was supplied with the bed isnt faulty and Miss M has explained that its 
been used and shes happy to keep it. I dont think its reasonable therefore to ask Happy to 
take the mattress back.
So, I think the most reasonable course of action would be for Happy to take the bed back 
and cancel the credit agreement.
The relevant legislation allows them to retain some of the finance instalments Miss M has 
paid in respect of the use she has had from the bed. Looking at Happys contact notes it 
seems that Miss M received the bed around 19 May 2020 and that she first complained 
about the broken leg seven weeks later on 8 July. So, Happy should refund all the finance 
instalments Miss M has paid towards the bed but can retain seven weekly instalments. 
Happy should add 8% simple interest to the refund as Miss M has been deprived of that 
money.
To calculate the refund, theyll need to calculate what proportion of the weekly instalments 
was being paid towards the bed and not the mattress. I note theyve explained that the bed 
cost £733 and the mattress was £300, so about 71% of the finance instalments were being 
paid towards the bed. Its those instalments that should be refunded.
Miss M has clearly been inconvenienced by these matters. Ive read that she had to sleep on 
the mattress on the floor until she could afford a replacement bed, and, in the circumstances, 
I think it would be fair for Happy to pay her £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Happy Customers Group 
Ltd to:
collect the broken bed at no cost to Miss M;
cancel the finance agreement with no further liability to pay;
remove the default that has been recorded to Miss Ms credit file and any
missed or late payment markers
other than for the seven-week period that Miss M had use of the bed, return all
sums paid by Miss M towards the bed and add 8% simple interest per year to that 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;pay Miss M £100 compensation for the trouble and upset she has experienced  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman