DRN-3315386
The complaint
Mr H complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim under his business 
protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. He made a claim on that 
policy to cover his business losses arising out of its closure from March 2020 due to the 
national Government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid-19. Covea 
declined the claim because it said Mr H didnt have cover for the losses he was claiming for. 
Mr H didnt agree. He felt his income had reduced dramatically as a result of being closed 
and that his policy covers SARS as a species. He felt that Covid-19 is caused by the same 
species so his claim should be covered.  He also argued that SARS is broadly defined and 
covers any respiratory disease caused by SARS-associated coronavirus. Because of this he 
felt the policy should be interpreted in his favour.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. 
She said there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation Mr H found 
himself in. Mr H doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown has had on Mr H. But for 
the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
 
The type of cover Mr H is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There 
are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. 
For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others 
provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The 
starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr H took out. As such Ive considered every 
aspect of the policy he holds with Covea to determine whether there are any sections that 
would require Covea to meet the claim like the one Mr H is making. 
Mr H has told us that he wasnt able to operate from March 2020 due to the government-
imposed lockdown. The policy provides cover for several things, including infectious 
diseases and public emergency. Ive considered those sections below. 
Infectious Diseases 
The Covid-19 pandemic was intended to be controlled by way of a Government-imposed 
lockdown. Mr H feels that this section of his policy offers cover in these circumstances. Ive 
considered what hes said about this and though I accept this section offers cover in certain 
circumstances, I dont believe any of those apply here. 
Under this section the policy covers: 
interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of closure of the 
Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local 
authority as a result of 
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any person 
whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises. 
The term Disease is defined as: 
 any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis acute infectious 
hepatitis acute meningitis acute poliomyelitis anthrax botulism brucellosis cholera diphtheria 
enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid) food poisoning haemolytic uraemic syndrome(HUS) 
infectious bloody diarrhoea invasive group A streptococcal disease legionellosis leprosy 
malaria measles meningococcal septicaemia mumps plague rabies rubella SARS scarlet 
fever smallpox tetanus tuberculosis typhus viral haemorrhagic fever (VHF) whooping cough 
and yellow fever. 
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy 
provides Mr H with cover in the current circumstances, as Covid-19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Covea 
might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present 
pandemic. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. Mr Hs policy sets out a list of the illnesses which are 
covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover 
for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. I think the purpose and 
effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular illnesses. 
I know that Mr H feels strongly that his claim should be covered because the policy covers 
SARS as a species. He says Covid-19 is caused by the same species. Hes made a number 
of detailed submissions which he feels supports this. He also says SARS is broadly defined 
and covers any respiratory disease caused by SARS-associated coronavirus.
SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome), is a viral respiratory illness caused by the 
SARS-associated coronavirus, SARS-CoV.  In this decision, when I refer to SARS I am 
referring to the disease.  Covid-19 is a disease caused by another coronavirus, SARS-CoV-
2.  Both SARS and Covid-19 are caused by coronaviruses.  Mr H has provided evidence that 
they are caused by different viruses within a species. I agree that SARS is a type of 
coronavirus and that both are viral infections. But I dont think that means the policy can or 
should fairly be read as covering Covid-19. 
The insuring clause is headed Infectious Diseases and covers Mr H for any human 
infectious or contagious Disease manifested by any person within a specified area.  
Disease is a defined term and means any of a list of diseases.  As a result, my view is that 
the repeated references to diseases, rather than causative agents or species, means that 
the policy is intended to cover diseases.  The other items in the list are all diseases or 
conditions, which supports this view. And as Mr H accepts, SARS and Covid-19 are 
separate diseases.
Whilst the policy does not define what SARS is, it does have a specific medical 
classification and is an infectious disease in its own right. SARS also appears as a specified disease in the Governments list of notifiable diseases as distinct from Covid-19. Whether 
theres reference to a form of coronavirus as a notifiable organism separate to the list of 
diseases, is in my view immaterial. Thats because there is a distinction that is made clear 
because Covid-19 is noted separately to SARS itself as a disease.   
This is confirmed by the World Health Organisation who acknowledged that whilst the two 
illnesses were related, they were different. Because of this I dont agree that Covid-19 can 
be treated as SARS for the purposes of attracting cover under the policy terms. Rather I 
think the term SARS used in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical 
illness. And whilst I appreciate that the diseases are part of the same family, I think to 
interpret them interchangeably would render the list Covea has set out, redundant. 
The fact that SARS is listed separately and that Covid-19 is different in its make up is, in my 
view, enough for me to determine that Covid-19 does not fall within this term in the policy 
and it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to treat the policy as if it did.
This position is also supported by recent case law. In Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers 
Insurance Company Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 the Judge was presented with an argument that 
Covid-19 fell under various other diseases listed in an insurance policy. It was held that the 
key to cover was the disease itself and not how it was brought about. 
When reaching my conclusions on this issue, Ive also noted what Mr H has said about 
paragraph 104 and paragraph 132 the judgment of Lord Justice Flaux in the FCAs test case 
on 15 September 2020, but I dont think what was decided supports his argument. Thats 
because the discussion in those paragraphs is not about the relationship between SARS and 
Covid-19. 
All in all, although I agree that Mr H had to close due to a Government order and that there 
may well have been a case of Covid-19 either at the insured premises or within 25 miles of 
it, I dont think the Infectious Diseases section of the policy covers his claim because Covid-
19 does not fall within the definition of Diseases set out by the policy.
Public Emergency
The policy also covers the actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an 
emergency likely to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents 
or hinders the use of or access to the Premises; excluding
4) infectious or contagious diseases.
Covea have relied on the infectious or contagious disease exclusion to turn down cover 
under this section of the policy but Mr H feels it doesnt apply. He says page 27 of the policy 
makes clear that the extension applies to human infectious and human contagious Disease, 
whereas the exclusion does not include the word human.
As the investigator said, policy terms are defined with reference to a capital letter at the start 
of the word, except otherwise stated. In the Loss of Income section of the policy the word 
Disease is defined as I have noted under my paragraph headed Infectious Diseases above. 
Whereas the exclusion applicable in this section of the policy isnt capitalised. So, it doesnt 
limit cover in the same way that defined Disease does. Because of this I dont think it can 
be read to exclude Covid-19 in the same way the defined list defining Disease does in the 
previous section of the policy. This position was confirmed in the FCAs test case on an issue. That section of the judgment 
wasnt subject to appeal. On 15 September 2020 Lord Justice Flaux said (at paragraph 376 
of the judgment):
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in the 21
and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local authority, and
was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an infectious disease.
Accordingly, the [exclusion] applies and there is no cover under [this policy] wording in
respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of the premises.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Covea Insurance plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman