DRN-2091618
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the settlement U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has offered them
for a claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their Home Plus home insurance policy, following an escape
of water in their bathroom. UKI accepted the claim and agreed to pay a cash settlement.
But Mr and Mrs S werent happy with UKIs offer. Thats because it hadnt offered to pay the
costs of replacing all their bathroom tiles. It had only offered to pay 50% towards the cost of
replacing the undamaged tiles. Mr and Mrs S bathroom tiles were no longer available, so
without a full tile replacement; theyd be left with a loss of match.
UKI said the buildings section of the policy didnt cover undamaged parts of the building
unless they were part of a bathroom or kitchen suite. So it said itd offered them a 50%
contribution towards the cost of replacing the undamaged tiles in line with good industry
practice.
Mr and Mrs S didnt feel the policy was clear though. They provided screenshots showing
online information about the cover provided by Home Plus policies, back in 2016 and around
the date of claim. They felt this information showed that cover for matching sets and pairs
was included as standard under the buildings section of the policy.
Theyd also spoken to two of UKIs online advisers, whod both said that matching sets and
items were covered under the buildings section of the policy. So Mr and Mrs S felt their tiles
were a matching set. And that the replacement of all their tiles should be covered. They
asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. She agreed that on a
strict interpretation of Mr and Mrs S policy, the undamaged tiles werent covered. She
accepted that in some cases, we might take the view that an insurer paying a 50%
contribution towards the loss of match of undamaged items is a fair and reasonable
response to a claim.
But the investigator didnt think this was a fair offer in this case. She didnt think UKI had
provided clear enough information about what the policy covered. She felt the information on
its website had been misleading as to the cover for matching sets. She felt getting full
matching sets cover had been important to Mr and Mrs S and she understood why theyd
believed they should also be covered for the undamaged tiles. She noted that UKI had
acknowledged the policy information couldve been clearer. So overall, she recommended
that UKI should pay the replacement costs of all of Mr and Mrs S tiles, together with £150
for the distress and inconvenience theyd been caused.
UKI disagreed. It said the tiles were a wall covering and so they were a fixture and fitting,
which formed part of the buildings cover. It maintained that it only covered the cost of
replacing damaged items, but that it was good industry practice to pay 50% of the
undamaged items. It also said that Mr and Mrs S tiles werent part of a matching set or suite.
I issued my provisional decision on 10 July 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think UKI had treated Mr and Mrs S fairly. But I didnt think UKI needed 
to meet the costs of replacing all Mr and Mrs S tiles. I felt fair compensation was £200 for Mr 
and Mrs S distress and inconvenience. I said:
Its clear that not all of Mr and Mrs S bathroom tiles were damaged by the escape of water. 
I agree that bathroom tiles would fall within the scope of buildings cover, rather than contents
cover, as theyre fixed to the wall. And I accept that the buildings section of Mr and Mrs S
policy doesnt cover undamaged items just because theyre part of a set or suite  unless
theyre part of a bathroom suite or fitted kitchen. I dont think bathroom tiles do form part of a
bathroom suite.
So I do think that on a strict interpretation of the policy, UKI is entitled not to pay anything
towards the undamaged tiles. But I dont think that would produce a fair outcome. Thats
because Mr and Mrs S would be left with a loss of match when its clear they carefully
selected their tiles and intended them to match. So I think its fair and reasonable for UKI to
pay them compensation for this loss of match.
Im pleased to see that UKI has agreed to pay a 50% contribution towards the cost of the
undamaged tiles. I think thats fair compensation for the loss of match and its in line with
awards weve made in similar cases. Given UKI isnt liable for the cost of the undamaged
tiles in the policy terms, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to tell it to pay the full cost
of replacing them all.
But UKI has an obligation to provide information about its policies which is clear, fair and not
misleading. Mr and Mrs S feel the information on UKIs website isnt clear and is misleading.
So Ive thought about this.
Ive looked carefully at the screenshots Mr and Mrs S have sent us. These screenshots
show the compare cover information UKI included on its website about its home insurance
products. These screenshots date from 2016 and around the time of the claim.
The buildings section on both screenshots, spanning around three years, both say Covered
as Standard  matching sets and pairs  Included. Theres no indication that UKI meant this
cover was limited to matching kitchen or bathroom suites.
Mr and Mrs S also sent us a screenshot showing the extra information that popped up if a
customer clicks to find out more about matching sets. This says:
If one item or part of a set , suite, group or collection of items is lost or damaged and we
cannot repair it or find a similar one, we will pay for the cost of replacing the whole set, suite,
group or collection, e.g. bathroom suite, fitted carpets, matching furniture such as a dining
room table and chairs.
While this pop-up box mentions bathroom suites, I dont think its at all clear that matching
sets cover only applies to bathroom suites in the case of buildings claims and the list isnt
exhaustive.
Having considered this information, I can understand why Mr and Mrs S wouldve thought
their bathroom tiles would be covered. I also think its reasonable for matching tiles to be
considered as a set or collection of items  especially if they were bought to match. Theyd
only have known this cover was limited to matching bathroom suites if theyd closely read
the actual policy booklet.Ive also looked closely at the transcripts of the online chats Mr S had with UKIs advisers.
Both advisers suggest that matching sets cover applies to buildings claims  with no
applicable exclusions. Mr S also asked one of the advisers whether, if only some kitchen
tiles were damaged in a claim, the cost of replacing all the tiles would be covered. The
adviser told him they would be. So it seems to me that UKIs online information is unclear
enough about whats covered by matching sets that its own advisers are also unclear about
it.
UKI also acknowledged in its final response letter that the information about the policy
couldve been clearer. So in the round, I think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs S to believe
all their tiles would be covered.
Where Im satisfied that theres been a failure to provide clear information, I need to think
about whether a consumer has lost out as a result. In this case, I asked Mr and Mrs S for
details of their previous policy cover so I could see whether theyd previously had full cover
for matching sets. If so, I may have concluded that theyd relied on UKIs misleading
information to their detriment because I mayve found they wouldve gone elsewhere for
cover.
But, having considered the terms of their past policy, I can see that the buildings section of
the policy says that it wont pay for undamaged items which form part of a matching set
unless theyre part of a bathroom suite. So it seems Mr and Mrs S had the same level of
buildings cover previously. As a result, its not clear that making sure that full matching sets
cover was included was a priority for them in the past.
And while Mr and Mrs S have shown me a link to a policy which now meets their needs, it
isnt clear that this type of policy wouldve been readily available back in 2016 when they
took out the policy. So Im not persuaded they wouldve been able to find an alternative
policy if theyd been aware that only bathroom suites would be treated as a matching set.
And as Ive explained, it also isnt clear that this is something that was important to them at
the time.
With that said though, I do think Mr and Mrs S have suffered a loss of expectation in terms of
the cover their policy would provide. I say that because I do think the policy marketing is
unclear and because even UKIs staff told Mr and Mrs S bathroom tiles should all be
covered. So I think its appropriate for UKI to pay Mr and Mrs S some compensation to
recognise the distress this loss of expectation has caused them and the inconvenience
theyve been put to trying to resolve their claim.
Currently, I think £200 would be fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr
and Mrs S have suffered.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
UKI accepted my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with my provisional findings. Ive summarised their key points:
- They felt that the principle of utmost good faith should apply to their contract  UKIs 
pre-contract information was so misleading, it hadnt acted in good faith.
- Given they considered UKI had misrepresented the cover available, they felt it should 
stand by what the policy promised.
- They felt my provisional decision didnt follow previous decisions our service had made  I hadnt considered that more than 50% of their tiles had been damaged.
- UKIs loss adjuster had included the costs of replacing all of the tiles in their scope of 
works.
- UKI hasnt contributed 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged tiles  Mr and 
Mrs S believe this should be an area of around 5 square metres; but UKI has 
calculated settlement based on 2.69 metres.
- My provisional decision didnt mention fitted kitchens  which isnt defined in the 
policy.
- Mr and Mrs S are disappointed at the emphasis I placed on the previous policies they 
had. They cant prove the importance of matching sets cover to themselves and even 
if they didnt previously have matching sets cover, they were entitled to an upgrade of 
their cover. Obtaining the most comprehensive level of cover was important to them. 
It was irrelevant to this decision what type of cover they had previously.
- Mr and Mrs S had got in touch with a broker, which had provided them with evidence 
that matching sets cover which wouldve fully covered their circumstances was 
available in 2016. Theyd also found other insurers which wouldve covered their full 
claim at this point in time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, Im still persuaded that £200 
compensation for their loss of expectation, distress and inconvenience is the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to thank Mr and Mrs S for their detailed response to my provisional decision. 
While Ive summarised their submissions and the evidence they sent me; Id like to reassure 
them that Ive carefully considered everything theyve said and sent me. Ive focused on 
what I think are the key issues though.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel that UKI hasnt acted in line with the principle of utmost good 
faith in its dealings with them. As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think the 
information on the compare cover section on UKIs website was at all clear that matching 
sets cover for bathrooms was limited to bathroom suites. But I havent seen enough to 
suggest UKI deliberately sought to mislead Mr and Mrs S about the extent of matching sets 
cover. Or that it entered into the contract with them in bad faith. The terms of the contract 
itself also set out that only bathroom suites would be covered. So in offering to pay 50% of 
the undamaged tiles, UKI has actually offered more than its strict contractual liability.
Mr and Mrs S have referred to past decisions of this service where compensation of 50% for 
loss of match has been awarded. Theyve said given over 50% of their tiles were damaged 
and were in a prominent position, the impact of the loss of match on them was significant.  I 
should make clear that each case is considered on its own individual facts and 
circumstances. And we consider what did happen, rather than hypothetical situations. In this 
case, given the lack of cover under the policy for the loss of match of undamaged tiles, I 
remain of the view that UKI paying 50% of the cost of the undamaged tiles is fair 
compensation for the loss of match. Its also in line with good industry practice.I understand Mr and Mrs S feel its irrelevant what type of policy theyd previously had. But I 
disagree. While I acknowledge the information on UKIs website wasnt sufficiently clear, in 
order to me to direct it to pay for all of the tiles, Id need to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken the policy if theyd known about the extent of matching sets cover. 
An important factor in reaching that conclusion is considering what a consumers priorities 
were likely to have been when they looked for insurance. And therefore I need to consider 
what type of cover they had before. If Mr and Mrs S had already had a policy which covered 
them for replacement of all matching sets in their bathroom, Id have likely concluded this 
was a priority for them. But they didnt have this cover beforehand. So while its a possibility 
theyd specifically sought to upgrade their cover in 2016, its at least equally likely that their 
priorities were limited to ensuring they took out the most comprehensive cover UKI offered. 
And that ensuring that tiles would be covered only later became a priority as a result of this 
claim. In the round, I havent seen enough to persuade me that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have 
taken out this policy if theyd known about the extent of matching sets cover.
Mr and Mrs S have provided evidence that full matching sets cover was available on the 
market in 2016. But while I acknowledge I indicated differently in my provisional decision, 
this new information doesnt make a difference to my overall conclusions. Thats because Im 
still not persuaded that its most likely Mr and Mrs S wouldve gone elsewhere if theyd 
known undamaged bathroom tiles wouldnt be covered in the event of a claim.
Ive also noted what Mr and Mrs S have said about their measurements for the undamaged 
areas differing from UKIs and therefore the settlement not representing 50% for the 
undamaged tiled area. Mr and Mrs S have raised this with UKI previously and mentioned this 
issue in their response to UKIs final response letter. But this particular issue wasnt 
addressed in UKIs final response to Mr and Mrs S complaint about whether or not it needed 
to pay for the cost of replacing all of the undamaged tiles. This decision is made on the basis 
that UKI must pay 50% of the costs of replacing the undamaged tiles. If Mr and Mrs S feel it 
hasnt done so once settlement has been paid, itll need to make a new complaint to UKI 
about this issue before we can potentially help with it.
Overall, I still think Mr and Mrs S wouldve had a reasonable expectation that all their tiles 
would be covered. I think the loss adjusters inclusion of the costs of replacing all of the tiles 
also feeds into this global loss of expectation too. So I remain satisfied compensation of 
£200 is fair and reasonable to recognise the distress and inconvenience they suffered as a 
result of that loss of expectation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my  provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
I direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S £200 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience its unclear information has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman