DRN-3703191
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold holiday products and the loans used to pay for them. 
The loans were provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as Barclays 
Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr G is represented by a claims 
management business, which Ill call F. Where I refer to arguments and submissions made 
by Mr G, I include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
Between January 2011 and February 2012 Mr G and his wife entered into three agreements 
to buy Points Rights in the Diamond Resorts European Collection Limited. The first of those 
agreements referred to an existing trial membership, indicating that they already had some 
experience of the Collection. Points Rights could be exchanged for holiday accommodation 
at the Collections resorts and other holiday benefits. Buying more Points Rights would give 
Mr and Mrs G access to a higher standard of accommodation and enable them to make 
bookings for more popular times of the year.
On 20 January 2011 Mr and Mrs G bought 6,000 Points Rights at a cost of £6,000. The 
seller was Diamond Resorts Tenerife Sales SL. To finance the purchase, Mr G took out a 
£6,000 loan, arranged by Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited. The loan was repaid in April 
2012.
On 27 June 2011 Mr and Mrs G bought 5,000 Points Rights at a cost of £6,000. The seller 
was Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited. To finance the purchase, Mr G took out a £6,000 
loan, arranged by Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited. The loan was repaid in May 2012.
On 30 January 2012 Mr and Mrs G bought 6,000 Points Rights at a cost of £4,800. The 
seller was Diamond Resorts Tenerife Sales SL. To finance the purchase, Mr G took out a 
loan for £15,457.99 loan, arranged by Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited. The loan was 
repaid in February 2017. 
Neither F nor BPF has explained why the January 2012 loan was for so much more than the 
price of the points purchased at that time, but it may have been used to refinance earlier 
purchases. For reasons I shall explain, however, nothing turns on that. 
In or about June 2019 Mr G complained to Diamond Resorts and to BPF. The complaints he 
made then and subsequently included:
BPF had not properly assessed whether he could afford to repay the money lent to him;
the product had been misrepresented to him and, under section 75(1) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, he therefore had a claim against BPF as well as against the seller;
he had been subjected to undue pressure by the seller;
the sale and purchase contracts were potentially open-ended, and that was an onerous 
term which had been concealed from him; 
the Points Rights had no inherent value; and
the loan agreements created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act.    
The misrepresentations alleged by Mr G concerned the availability of holiday 
accommodation and that resorts were for the exclusive use of Diamond Resorts members. 
He did not however specify which misrepresentations were made in respect of which sale or 
sales. Nor did he expand on the pressured sales techniques which he said were used, or 
identify what techniques were used at which time. 
F referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator concluded that any claim for misrepresentation was likely to be 
out of time under the Limitation Act 1980; the same applied to any claim under section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act in respect of the first two loans. Any such claim in respect of the 
third loan was unlikely to succeed. 
Mr G did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
F says that BPF has not shown anything to prove that it assessed the affordability or 
suitability of the loans. Given the time that has passed since it was taken out, I do not find 
that particularly surprising. F has not however provided anything to show that the loans were 
not affordable; nor has it said whether this part of Mr Gs complaint concerns all of the loans 
or, if not, which ones are affected. 
Our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us 
within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which 
the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.  
The events complained of in this case are the credit assessments that BPF carried out (or 
did not carry out) in January 2011, June 2011 and January 2012. Mr G would have known 
fairly soon after those dates if he was having difficulty making repayments. He certainly 
would have known at some point before the third loan was repaid. It is arguable therefore 
that this part of the complaint should have been referred to this service by no later than 30 
January 2018  six years from the date Mr G took out the third loan  and that, because it 
was not, we have no power to consider it. 
If I were to take a different view on that (perhaps because Mr G cannot be expected to know 
what checks BPF should have carried out), I have not seen anything here to suggest that the 
lending was not affordable or that the loans were otherwise not appropriate for Mr G. I note 
that all the loans were repaid without Mr G suggesting he was having difficulty making 
payments. That does not necessarily mean they were affordable or that appropriate checks 
were carried out, of course, but I think Mr G would have contacted BPF while the loans were 
current if he was having difficulty.  
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loans financed the purchase of Points Rights. The 
documentation shows too that Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited arranged all three loans 
and was the seller in one of the sales contracts. The loans were therefore made under pre-
existing arrangements between it and BPF. I think it is likely too that the relationship 
between Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited and Diamond Resorts Tenerife Sales SL was 
sufficiently close that section 75 could apply to all three loans. 
I must therefore consider the misrepresentation claims. Mr G says that he was misled about 
the benefits of buying Points Rights  and in particular about the availability of 
accommodation and the exclusivity of resorts.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr G at the time of the sales, beyond 
what I have summarised above. 
Be that as it may, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr G into the contracts 
for the purchase of Points Rights were made on or before the dates of the sale contracts. He 
did not however raise any complaint with BPF until June 2019, more than seven years after 
the latest contract. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim 
against Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited and/or Diamond Resorts Tenerife Sales SL 
would be outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. 
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. In the case of the first two loans, that was 
no later than April 2019 and May 2019 respectively, six years from when the loans were 
repaid in full and the loan accounts closed. 
The third account, however, remained open until February 2017, so the time limit had not 
expired when Mr G complained to BPF. 
In considering whether to make an order under section 140B, the court can take into account 
any linked agreement  which in this case would include the January 2012 contract for the 
sale of Points Rights. I have however seen nothing to persuade me that a court would be 
likely to exercise its powers to re-open the loan agreement and impose different terms on the 
parties.I have explained above why I consider a claim in misrepresentation is unlikely to succeed. 
Mr G says too that he was pressured into buying Points Rights but, as I have indicated, there 
is no further detail about that. F says too that the contract was potentially open-ended, a fact 
which was concealed. It did not provide full copies of the sales contracts, but the standard 
form of contract for the Diamond Resorts European Collection Limited said clearly that the 
club would be wound up in 2054. That was not concealed, and the contract was not open-
ended. 
There are therefore no grounds on which I think I could properly conclude that there is an 
unfair relationship in this case.
Conclusions
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr G has a claim against either seller or, 
therefore, whether he has a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor is it for 
me to decide whether any claim might be time-barred under the Limitation Act.
I do not have any power to make orders under section 140A and section 140B; only a court 
can do that. They are however matters which I must take into account in deciding what I 
consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I have done that and concluded that 
it would not be fair or reasonable to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Gs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman