DRN-2942704
The complaint
Mr G, in his capacity as trustee of T, has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to 
sell some shares held in the trust. Mr G says the shares cant be sold anymore which is 
preventing the trust from being fully wound up.
What happened
T was established upon the death of the late Mrs G in 1996. The trust assets were invested 
in shares in an account with Barclays, which it managed on a discretionary basis. 
In 2006, a company that the trust held shares in, W, issued B and C class preference 
shares to shareholders. Following the issue of the shares, a business, D, made an offer to 
purchase the B class shares at 155p per share later that year and again in 2007. D also 
made an offer to purchase the C class shares at 159p per share in 2007 and again in 2008 
at 162.6p per share.
In 2019 the trustees started taking action to liquidate the assets held in the trust. At this point 
they became aware of the B and C class shares held in the account, which couldnt be sold. 
After making some enquiries with W, Mr G found out about Ds offers to purchase the 
shares. He subsequently complained that Barclays had been negligent by not accepting Ds 
offer to purchase them. Mr G said the trustees were unable to close the account because the 
shares couldnt be sold  he also said fees had been charged on the value of the shares, 
even though the value of them couldnt be realised.
Barclays believed the trustees had made their complaint too late as the events complained 
about were more than six years ago. And Barclays thought the trustees wouldve known 
about the B and C class preference shares when they started managing the investments 
themselves in 2014, which was more than three years before they complained.
The trustees referred the complaint to our service. The investigator thought that the 
complaint had been made in time because she wasnt persuaded the trustees had been 
made aware of Ds offer to purchase the shares, or that Barclays had turned the offers down.
Ultimately the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that Barclays had been 
given three options when the offers were made; it could sell the shares to D, take the full 
value of the shares as a dividend and convert them into deferred shares, or retain the shares 
and receive a regular dividend instead. She said the evidence showed Barclays had chosen 
to take a dividend of 155p per share in respect of the B class shares, which were then 
converted into deferred shares. However, Barclays had elected to retain the C class shares 
and had received a regular income from them. She added that Barclays had said retaining 
the C class shares meant there was a possibility that W couldve chosen to convert these 
into ordinary shares in future. Overall, the investigator thought that Barclays had exercised 
its discretion under the terms of its agreement with the trust fairly, which allowed it to hold 
non-readily realisable investments. And she didnt think retaining the shares was 
inconsistent with the trusts objectives and risk profile.
Mr G didnt accept this. He said it did not make any sense to retain the C class shares which 
had a low yield and could not be traded in future. Mr G also questioned the value placed on 
the shares for charging purposes.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate the trustees will be 
disappointed with this, but Ill explain why.
Barclays managed the trust assets on a discretionary basis. The terms of business that the 
trustees agreed to were for a previous provider which Barclays later took over. The terms, 
which were signed in 1997, sets out the basis of the arrangement as follows:
YOUR INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES
We are proceeding on the basis that these are a balanced return from income and capital 
and that you are prepared to accept a medium level of risk. This risk level may be achieved 
on an overall portfolio basis by holding some higher and lower risk securities.
EXTENT OF DISCRETION
We will manage on a discretionary basis your account of cash and investments. Subject to 
any instructions from you, we shall have full authority at our discretion, without prior 
reference to you, to enter into any kind of transaction or arrangement for your account. 
Under the rules of the Securities and Futures Authority we may only exercise discretion in 
accordance with your investment objectives and in a manner we believe to be suitable for 
you.
NON-READILY REALISABLE INVESTMENTS
We may enter into transactions on your behalf in non-readily realisable investments.
The agreement contained a section where the trustees could specify any restrictions they 
wished to place on the types of investment that could be held or purchased. However, this 
section was left blank, meaning no restrictions applied.
So, I think it is clear from the agreement the trustees entered into that Barclays had absolute 
discretion over the portfolio and it was not prevented from holding investments such as the B 
and C class preference shares. However, Ive considered whether it exercised its discretion 
fairly on this occasion.
Mr G says it was wholly unreasonable for Barclays to retain the C class preference shares 
because of their low yield and the fact they could not be sold in future.
According to the circular issued by W in November 2006, the C class shares paid a fixed 
dividend of 0.75% of six month LIBOR. The income would be payable going forward until 
such time that W purchased the shares back or converted them to ordinary shares. Whilst 
the income payable has reduced over time because of the decline in the six month LIBOR 
rate, at the time of the purchase offers the rate was attractive. And given the trusts objective 
of returns through income and capital, I dont think Barclays decision to retain the C class 
shares and take the income was unreasonable.Furthermore, by retaining the shares, the possibility remained that W would convert the 
shares into ordinary shares. This wouldve been attractive as an income was guaranteed 
and there was a chance of the trust being able to benefit from the value of the shares in 
future. I appreciate with hindsight it may have been more favourable if Barclays had sold the 
shares to D in 2007 or 2008. And I accept it was made aware that no further offers would be 
coming from D. But I dont think it couldve predicted the financial crisis which led to the 
downturn in the six month LIBOR rate or that the low rate would persist for so long 
thereafter. I also dont think it couldve known that W wouldnt offer to convert the shares 
before the trustees wanted to liquidate the trust assets. So, I dont think Barclays acted 
unreasonably here.
Mr G has asked whether Barclays has followed a similar course of action for other 
customers or holders of the preference shares in W. But I dont think this is a relevant 
consideration. I can only consider whether Barclays used its discretion fairly in dealing with 
the trust assets. And as Ive said above, I think it did.
Mr G has also queried the value attached to the shares retained in the account. He doesnt 
think Barclays should be able to charge fees for holding them when they cant be sold. But 
while the shares cant be sold or traded, they still maintain a value and fees are charged 
accordingly. So, I dont think the fact fees are charged for holding these assets is 
unreasonable.
I appreciate the trustees are in a difficult position as they cannot fully wind down the trust 
given the presence of these shares. But I dont think this is because of any wrongdoing on 
Barclays part.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman