DRN-3086785
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in August 
2002. Mrs P says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. Ill explain why. 
Mrs P took out the store card in 1984. The PPI was sold to Mrs P many years later in 
2002 during a phone call. Unsurprisingly, given how long ago the sale took place, AXA 
hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call. However, based on the sales script 
we have seen and from experience of how AXA sold PPI over the phone in general, it 
seems likely the representative wouldve explained the PPI to Mrs P and given her a 
choice about whether to take the PPI. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs P knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Mrs P didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs P enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs P. Although Mrs P says 
she had a medical condition some time before the policy was taken out I dont think 
better information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused her to 
change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this because the conditions Mrs P has 
referred to occurred many years before the sale of the PPI and they were treated at the 
time. Mrs P hasnt told us of any on-going health issues she had because of these 
conditions. It seems that at the point of sale she was generally in good health. 
Mrs P has referred to her savings and employee benefits, which she says show she 
didnt need the PPI. The policy wouldve paid out alongside any employee benefits and 
wouldve allowed Mrs P to keep her savings intact. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mrs P would have declined the cover had AXA done 
anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs P would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ps particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman