DRN-3159786
The complaint
Mr S complained about Smith & Pinching Financial Services Ltd (SPFS), a firm of 
independent financial advisors managing his pension investments. 
Mr S thinks he should be compensated for losses incurred as a result of SPFS selling 
investments in his pension fund in March 2019 and later buying them back at a higher cost. 
He also refers, more broadly, to what he calls multiple instances of erratic and poor 
investment decisions by SPFS in or around 2017-18. 
Mr S says these things caused him to lose money on some of the funds within his pension. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr S became a client of SPFS, transferring substantial pension savings to SPFSs 
control for them to be managed for him. He entered into an agreement with SPFS that the 
funds would be managed with discretion, which basically meant that certain activities could 
be carried out without Mr Ss direct involvement, whilst general strategy and attitude to risk 
were discussed and agreed with Mr S on an advisory basis.
At the time, Mr S was in his early fifties and intended to start accessing some of his pension 
savings over the next few years. He agreed with SPFS an attitude to risk (ATR) rating of 
6/10. Ive kept this in mind when thinking about what happened.
One of our investigators comprehensively looked into the complaint and told the parties 
involved that he didnt think we should uphold it. The investigator noted the type of 
arrangement Mr S had with SPFS, specifically that the firm was paid as a percentage of the 
fund(s) value rather than on the number of individual trades made, and therefore, the lack of 
any incentive for SPFS to carry out more trades than necessary. However, the investigator 
mainly noted the nature of the agreement the parties operated under, Mr Ss ATR and the 
emerging stock market volatility caused by political events at the time, mainly Brexit. 
The investigator didnt think SPFS needed to pay anything back to Mr S. 
Mr S didnt agree with this and as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Id like to begin my findings by acknowledging that I certainly dont doubt that Mr S now 
genuinely and honestly feels he hasnt had the service from SPFS he once expected. He 
has set out his arguments clearly and in a way I fully understand.
Mr S replied to our investigators view and specifically asked that I consider this before 
arriving at my decision. Actually, Ive considered everything we now have and although I 
have only included a summary of the complaint here, I have read and considered all the 
evidence and arguments with great care. 
The issue for me here is to determine whether SPFS did anything wrong, or whether some 
of the losses Mr S says he incurred are simply down to market events and / or performance. 
In its broadest sense, Mr Ss complaint is that SPFS hasnt been a competent investor of his 
pension funds. He cites two main examples: a specific example, and a more general one.
The first point relates to what Mr S calls a demonstrable loss of £5,837 incurred as a direct 
result of an entirely unnecessary sale and re-purchase of specific funds over a short time 
period commencing in March 2019. Investments were sold (to cash) and then purchased 
again at an unfavourable price a few days later, Mr S says. The time spent out of the market 
(i.e. held in cash rather than equities) was unfavourable to him according to Mr S and the 
above loss was caused directly by these issues. He is effectively saying the sale wasnt 
necessary.
The second point of complaint is of a more general nature. Having clearly become 
dissatisfied with the overall performance over time, an example of which is the above March 
2019 trade, Mr S asked for a review to be carried out of the more historic trades and 
performance. He asked for a full examination of his investments in the context of the 
approach adopted and a determination of whether or not, and the extent to which, this led to 
losses in 2018. 
Mr Ss agreement with SPFS
Mr Ss relationship with SPFS is an important one, in my view. He was a discretionary-
managed client within a Model Portfolio; clients are placed into such a Portfolio, graded 
according to investment risk and the outcomes sought. In laymans terms, a lower Portfolio is 
considered less adventurous / risky. The SPFS menu of Model Portfolios are subject to 
scheduled rebalances, and an investment oversight committee meets regularly to assess the 
investment landscape. Ad-hoc rebalances can occur if deemed necessary by unfolding 
events.
The original transfer value of Mr Ss pension was £1,085,907 and he was advised by SPFS 
to transfer this cash value into investments on a phased basis. Another term used for this 
strategy is pound cost averaging and it is used to mitigate any major changes in market 
conditions by buying investments gradually, in spread-out periods: the effect hoped for is to 
even out volatility in prices.
Because Mr S agreed to have his pension investments managed with discretion, this meant 
SPFS could make certain changes to the underlying assets in his Portfolio  in his case he 
had agreed to be placed in Model Portfolio 6 - within agreed parameters, without first 
obtaining his consent. Advisory management, on the other hand, would have required Mr Ss 
agreement to any changes. Wider decisions relating to general strategy, asset types and ATR were conducted on an advisory basis after an appraisal of client circumstances and 
needs. Given what Ive seen of Mr Ss objectives, I think he was placed in the right Portfolio.
Mr Ss allegations about the March 2019 trade
In the event, I note there were clearly several discussions between Mr S and SPFS around 
March 2019 and in some ways the managed with discretion approach was somewhat 
overtaken by events. SPFS says, for instance, that Mr S often challenged it on what it calls 
short term performance issues and I have also seen evidence that by March 2019, Mr S had 
become concerned about market conditions and investment volatility connected with political 
events, mainly Brexit. Mr S says this is overplayed and was mainly a concern raised by 
SPFS, but Ive read the notes of discussions between the parties and an agreement 
whereby Mr S was to be moved to a different Portfolio  Managed Portfolio 3  in 
accordance with his own concerns and changing attitude to risk caused by Brexit. These 
issues are documented, so I place weight on them. I also dont consider it unreasonable that 
clients like Mr S would have seen these events as risky at the time.
In the immediate term, it was agreed to sell his holdings to cash, commensurate with the 
perceived risks. I dont think SPFS did anything wrong because the sale and buyback was 
related directly to a change in ATR, and the evidence tends to show this is what Mr S 
wanted. The action SPFS took did indeed involve selling and then holding the proceeds in 
cash, and a gap between the two. However, it appears to me this was done wholly in 
accordance with Mr Ss wishes and for an interim period until a change in the Portfolio to a 
lower risk profile was made. So, I think there is compelling evidence these changes related 
substantially to an unease (probably one shared by SPFS and Mr S) with current market 
conditions and his expectation that a different Portfolio would eventually ease his concerns. 
Mr S says this time out of the market resulted in losses and I can see how it is possible to 
view what subsequently happened through a different lens. But in my view this would be to 
use considerable hindsight about market conditions  the outcome could have obviously 
been different. The agreement Mr S signed in 2017 said the company may invest in any 
type of investment which it considers suitable for the owner in accordance with the 
investment objectives outlined, and may invest at its discretion any amount or proportion of 
the investment portfolio in any one investment or type of investment or market.
As our investigator explained, it is clear this allowed SPFS to make investment decisions in 
accordance with the Portfolio being invested in. Mr Ss investments were originally included 
in Model Portfolio 6 in accordance with both his wishes and agreement, and in accordance 
with his risk profile, age and wanting to access his pension relatively soon. However, he 
himself agreed to change the Portfolio from 6 to 3, reflecting his concerns about risk. 
In my view, there is comprehensive evidence supporting that these discussions took place 
and that Mr S agreed to the Portfolio change and the interim change to cash. Everything Ive 
seen shows Mr S to be a knowledgeable investor and aware of the terms of SPFSs 
business model. So, although our investigator went into considerable detail about what took 
place in relation to Mr Ss point of complaint relating to March 2019, I do not intend to repeat 
all this. The issue I consider to be important here is that Mr S had agreed to his investments 
been managed, he participated in the Portfolio change and also signed up to investment 
choices that seemed right at the time, including avoiding an impending risk. It is important to 
note all this took place alongside considerable political and market uncertainty at the time 
and everything Ive seen points to Mr S wanting to mitigate the effect of this.I therefore do not uphold this part of the complaint.
Mr Ss allegations about general trading
Turning to his more general points about initial investments which Mr S considers to have 
been erratic and poor, I think these too were in accordance with an overall strategy agreed 
to by Mr S. Im going to summarise this to keep things simple, but we know Mr S had 
transferred in a substantial sum. Again, in accordance with an agreed strategy, a significant 
number of trades in 2017 and 2018 were therefore as a result of phasing in, which as I 
mentioned earlier sought to even out volatility in prices.
The investigator set out every trade that took place. In my view, the vast majority related to 
either the above strategy (phasing) or scheduled or ad-hoc rebalancing or as a result of 
oversight meetings.
Mr S now implies different action could have been taken. But this doesnt mean SPFS was 
wrong at the time - I think this action took place within the terms and conditions Mr S signed 
up to. In short, I think SPFS was operating in accordance with its model. Im afraid Ive seen 
nothing to support Mr Ss allegation of the trading being erratic or unnecessary.
Accordingly, I do not uphold this part of Mr Ss complaint either.
Summary
I have thought very carefully about the different scenarios put forward by Mr S, including 
whether the time taken to carry out certain actions could or should have been much quicker. 
However, I cannot find against SPFS for acting in the way it did; it generally processed Mr 
Ss instructions or otherwise acted in accordance with its terms of business and a strategy 
previously agreed to by Mr S. 
I note Mr S transferred from a defined benefit pension and so I think its reasonable for me to 
say he wanted a flexible exposure to stock markets and from what Ive seen, he would have 
understood the potential benefits and risks involved. In the event it may well be that some of 
the subsequent market conditions may have been unfavourable to him. However as Ive 
said, this of course, has the benefit of hindsight and the majority of Mr Ss complaint, in my 
view, is about what he perceives as disappointing investment performance.
I do understand that this will not be the outcome Mr S hoped for, however, it is a final 
decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
I do not require Smith & Pinching Financial Services Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman