DRN-4162779
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is refusing to refund him the amount 
he lost as the result of a scam.
Mr J is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple I will refer to Mr J 
throughout my decision.
What happened
In my provisional decision sent on 5 May 2023, I said:
Methods of recovery
Mr J made the payments into the scam via the method of transfer. Mr J transferred funds
from an account he held with Barclays to an account in his name at Kraken before the
money was moved on to the scammer.
As the payments Mr J made from his account with Barclays went to an account in his name
Barclays have no recovery options available.
Should Barclays have stepped in to prevent the scam from taking place?
Mr J has accepted he authorised the payments he made in relation to the scam, so the
starting point here is that Mr J is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Barclays should have stepped in when Mr J was attempting to
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
I can see from the information that is available that Barclays did step in as we would have
expected when Mr J made the larger payment of £22,500 to Kraken on 29 June 2021.
Payments made before this time were of a significantly lower value that I would not have
expected to trigger Barclays fraud prevention systems.
On 29 June 2021 Barclays had a conversation with Mr J about the payment he was making.
I have listened to this call. The Barclays representative explained he was calling about the
£22,500 payment Mr J was attempting to make. He checked that Mr J was making the
payment himself and that he had made this type of investment before. Mr J confirmed he
was making a payment into his own account with Kraken and that he had made the same
type of investment before. Mr J also confirmed he may be making further similar payments.
I think Barclays could have probed further into the reason for the payment Mr J was making
asking if any other company was involved and where Mr J had found the investment
opportunity for example.
However, Mr J has confirmed he was being coached by X and was told not to tell Barclays
what he was doing as the banks didnt like their customers moving funds away from the
accounts held with them. Mr J says he was also told not to mention crypto or that the funds
were going to X. Mr J says it was because of the coaching given by X that he didnt tell
Barclays about the Investment.
Having considered all the above information its clear that X had formed a level of trust with
Mr J and that Mr J was willing to keep information from Barclays so the payments would be
processed.
Had Barclays asked further questions about the payments Mr J made into the scam I think it
is likely Mr J would have answered the questions as he had been coached to by X, as he
has stated this is why he didnt tell Barclays about the reasons behind the payments, and it
is unlikely the scam would have been uncovered.
While I think Barclays could have done more, I dont think it missed an opportunity to stop
the scam and I dont think it is responsible for Mr Js loss. So, Barclays does not have to
refund any of the money Mr J lost because of this scam.
I gave Barclays and Mr J time to respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays didnt provide anything further. Mr J said he disagreed with the provisional decision. 
In summary Mr J said the coaching he was given by X was vague and would not have stood 
up to questioning. He also said I have applied a tick box approach when reaching my 
decision and that the call recordings had not been considered fairly. Mr J also said that X 
had not built up a level of trust with him and that Barclays should have done more to prevent 
the scam.
Mr J has referenced a previous decision reached by our service on a different case to 
support his view. But all complaints are considered on their individual merit and the decision 
referenced will not impact my findings on this complaint.
I have thought about what Mr J has said and as I said in my provisional decision, I also think 
Barclays could have done more, but I dont think this would have prevented the scam from 
progressing. I have also reviewed all of the information available including the call recordings 
between Mr J and Barclays.
I have not taken a tick box approach to this complaint as suggested by Mr J and I think a 
level of trust was built between Mr J and X. After all he was willing to send funds to X based 
on the information it had provided to him. In the submissions made to our service and 
Barclays Mr J explained he was coached by X on what to say to Barclays when making the 
payments so they would go through. He said:
Mr J was coached by the fraudsters that the banks dont like us because we are making 
you money outside of their accounts, He was told dont tell them what youre doing as theyll 
try to stop you, and dont mention crypto or that it is going to us to invest for you just say it is 
a payment you are happy to make
Mr J says the direction given by X was vague. But I think its clear from the above 
information provided by Mr J that he was given convincing reasons to hide the true purpose 
of the payments and that he accepted he may be required to hide the true purpose of the 
payments he was making. I think Mr J was willing to hide the reasons for his payments from 
Barclays as when X told him that he may need to give false information to Barclays for his payments to be processed he continued to make the payments as directed by X.
For these reasons, I dont think further questioning by Barclays about the payments would 
have been likely to uncover the scam and I dont think Barclays is responsible for Mr Js loss.
The response provided by Mr J has not persuaded me to change my mind on his complaint 
and I dont think Barclays is responsible for his loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman