DRN-3031059
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr J and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr J and 
Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr J and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr J and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr J and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
BoS had to make it clear to Mr J and Mrs B that they had a choice about PPI. Mr J has 
said he didnt know he had PPI with the mortgage. 
Because things happened many years ago and the mortgage has long since been 
repaid, BoS no longer has any of the paperwork from the time of sale. While this is 
unfortunate, it isnt surprising - businesses dont have to keep records forever.
So taking everything into account, including the limited evidence about an event which 
happened in the mid 1990s, while I accept its possible Mr J and Mrs B didnt choose to 
take our PPI and they didnt agree to it, its equally possible that they did. So I cant fairly 
say that BoS more likely than not misrepresented the policy and acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr J and Mrs B in this regard. 
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr J and Mrs B - so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them. And the evidence about Mr J and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example 
Mr J and Mrs B appear to have been eligible for the cover (while Mrs B indicated she 
worked less than 16 hours a week, BoS records of her annual income at the time 
suggest she was working more than 16 hours a week.) 
And while Mr J had some sick pay he could have used to make the repayments on their 
mortgage, Mrs B didnt have any employee benefits and they didnt have any savings to 
fall back on. So I think they had a need for cover  I think a policy that paid out for up to 
12 months per claim would have helped them out financially had the insured risk become 
a reality. There was nothing about Mr J and Mrs Bs employment or occupation which 
would have made it difficult for them to claim. And they havent told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could affect their ability to claim  so I dont think it was 
wrong for BoS to have recommended it.
Given the limited evidence, I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr J and Mrs 
B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to 
take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mr J and Mrs B as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what 
they reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were likely given. At 
under £30 a month it also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have 
been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr J and Mrs 
B would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr J and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr J and Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr J and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr J and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr J and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr J and Mrs Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr J and Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr J and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman