DRN-1744342
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Black Horse Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services 
(LRFS), wrongly recorded adverse information on his credit file after he had voluntary 
terminated a hire purchase agreement for a car.
What happened
In June 2016, Mr F entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a car. In April 2019, 
the car unfortunately broke down and he contacted the dealership. The car went in for 
repairs.
During April 2019, as Mr F had paid over 50% of his agreement, he decided to proceed with 
the voluntary termination (VT) of the agreement and hand the car back. He contacted 
LRFS who sent him the VT pack.
In May 2019, Mr F contacted LRFS to pay the termination figure. He also told it that the car 
was currently still at the dealership being repaired and, once this had been completed, the 
car would be returned by them.
However, the repairs to the car took some time and the car remained at the dealership until 
December 2019. During this time there were a number of calls between Mr F, LRFS and the 
dealership. LRFS told Mr F the car remained his responsibility until it had been collected but 
also advised him, during a call in November 2019, that his credit file wouldnt be affected by 
the car still not having been handed back.
As the car hadnt been returned to LRFS it had treated the settlement amount paid by Mr F 
as a bulk pre-payment, rather than as the VT settlement amount which would have ended 
the agreement. This meant that the account showed that no payments were due until 
November 2019. However, from November, the account began to show late/missed 
payments and, although LRFS had said this wouldnt have any impact on Mr Fs credit file, it 
then recorded the adverse information on Mr Fs credit file. The car was finally collected from 
the dealership in December.
In January 2020 Mr F was declined for a new credit agreement and the limit on his credit 
card was reduced by the bank. Mr F complained to LRFS that this was because it had 
unfairly recorded adverse information on his credit file.
LRFS investigated Mr Fs complaint and upheld it. It agreed the information shouldnt have 
been recorded and removed it from his credit file. It offered Mr F £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by having the adverse information wrongly recorded on 
his credit file.
Mr F was unhappy at the amount of compensation that had been offered by LRFS and 
complained to this service. He said he had had to make numerous calls to LRFS, and to the 
dealership about the car and what was happening. He had also received a number of 
assurances that nothing would be recorded on his credit file, but he had then found out in 
January 2020, that late payments from November 2019 had been recorded. It had taken until 
March 2020 to sort the issue out. He said he had suffered a great deal of stress over the 
events.
Our investigator agreed that LRFS had acted unfairly, but said she thought the offer of 
compensation had been reasonable and so wasnt going to ask LRFS to do more.
Mr F disagreed with the view of our investigator and so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that the adverse information shouldnt have been recorded on Mr Fs credit 
file. The issue for me to decide is whether the amount of compensation offered by LRFS is 
fair and reasonable in these particular circumstances.
I appreciate Mr F is also unhappy at the handling of the VT by LRFS as he says he was 
asked by LRFS to act as a go-between between itself and the dealership. Unfortunately, the 
situation was complicated by the length of time the repairs took. Mr F says he received a 
number of calls and letters about the situation. I understand that some of the letters sent out 
were automated as Mr Fs account couldnt be closed until the car had been handed back. I 
accept that the situation would have been stressful, but I cant reasonably say this was all 
due to the actions of LRFS.
Mr Fs complaint to LRFS concerned the impact of the adverse information, and its handling 
of that complaint, as he had struggled to make contact with his complaint manager. As a 
general rule my remit isnt to look at complaint handling by businesses as this isnt a 
complaint about a financial service and so isnt a regulated activity. So, I have concentrated 
on the impact the negative information, that was wrongly recorded on his credit file, had on 
Mr F when considering the issue of compensation. Ive seen that LRFS has apologised for 
the service it provided Mr F.
Ive seen that Mr F was unaware of the negative information showing on his credit file until 
he was declined for a new credit agreement in January 2020. Ive also seen from LRFSs 
notes that Mr F explained he had been embarrassed when having his credit application 
rejected as he had been in a shop at the time. Im also aware that the credit limit on an 
existing credit card was also reduced by the bank. So, I cant reasonably say that there was 
no or minimal impact on Mr F. 
The account was showing as having missed payments from October 2019, so the 
information appears to have been on Mr Fs account for about three months before he knew 
it was there. Ive seen that Mr F complained to LRFS as soon as he knew, and it says that it 
rectified the information straightaway. The adverse information was removed in the second 
week of January 2020. Ive seen Mr F says it took to March 2020 to sort out, but I think any 
delay with removing the information from his record would more likely than not have been 
due to something outside of LRFSs control as I can see it acted promptly following Mr Fs 
complaint.
It would seem likely that Mr Fs credit application was affected by the information on his 
credit file and so this meant that he lost out on a particular offer. He also had his credit limit 
lowered on an existing credit card. I accept this this would have been frustrating and 
stressful for Mr F. It also put Mr F to the inconvenience of having to sort the situation out. Clearly, the negative information shouldnt have been recorded on Mr Fs credit file and it 
has had an impact. Weighing up the length of time the information was included on his file, 
and the overall impact this has had on Mr F, I think the offer of £300 compensation for both 
the wrong recording of the information and the service he had received from LRFS is fair. I 
think this acknowledges what happened and the affect it has had on Mr F. So, for the 
reasons given Im not going to ask LRFS to do more.
Putting things right 
If the £300 compensation has not been paid to Mr F, then I am asking Black Horse Limited 
trading as Land Rover Financial Services to do so now.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Fs complaint in that I agree Black Horse 
Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services acted unfairly in recording the adverse 
information on his credit file. However, as I think its offer of £300 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I am not asking it to pay more.
If the £300 compensation has not yet been paid than I am asking Black Horse Limited 
trading as Land Rover Financial Services to now pay that amount to Mr F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman