DRN-3132266
The complaint
Mrs M complains that TSB Bank plc registered a default on her credit file for an account she
presumed would close. She also complains that she didnt receive letters TSB says it sent
her.
What happened
Mrs M says she withdrew all her money from her TSB account and assumed the account
would close. She says she then received a letter from TSB in February 2021 telling her to
bring the account up to date as there was an unauthorised overdraft balance of just over
£10. Mrs M says a default was registered on her credit file which meant another bank
withdrew her overdraft facility.
TSB says it has a regulatory duty to report its customers accounts position to the Credit
Reference Agencies (CRAs) and has reported late payment markers but has not registered
a default. It says it was Mrs Ms responsibility to manage her account and that she had a
Standing Order (SO) set up which could not be paid, which resulted in the charges from
October 2020 until early 2021. TSB says it sent four letters to Mrs M about this issue and
she had access to her account statements which would have shown the problem. It has
written off the balance.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator
thought by withdrawing the money that didnt mean the account would close and that the
charges were applied in line with account terms and conditions. The investigator also
thought TSB had sent four letters about the charges.
Mrs M says she didnt receive those letters and has provided evidence from a CRA that a
default was registered on her credit file.
TSB has agreed to remove the default and accepts a default should not be registered when 
the balance outstanding is made up of charges.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I came to a slightly different 
view to that of the investigator for the reasons I would explain.
I was satisfied that this was Mrs Ms account and her responsibility to manage it. I didnt 
think TSB could have known that Mrs Ms intention by withdrawing the money from her 
account was that she wanted the account to close. And I didnt think TSB made a mistake by
attempting to take the SO when I didnt think Mrs M cancelled it. I looked at the agreed
account terms and conditions which I thought Mrs M would have agreed to when the account
was opened and was satisfied TSB was entitled to make a charge for the unpaid SO.
So, I didnt think TSB made a mistake by reporting a late payment marker to the CRAs. And
I was satisfied that TSB sent Mrs M four letters about the charges. I appreciated Mrs M says 
she didnt receive them by post, and I thought it likely that TSB sent the letters by e-mail to 
her online banking account. I say that as TSB told us that Mrs M was set up for paperless
correspondence and so letters and statements would have been available on line. I hoped
TSB could confirm that before my final decision and if it sends a separate e-mail to Mrs Ms
personal e-mail address to tell her that she has new correspondence or statements.
I also appreciated that Mrs M may not have noticed the letters as she thought the account 
would close but I said I cant fairly hold TSB responsible for that. And I made clear that I 
didnt think TSB could reasonably have known what Mrs Ms intentions were.
Mrs M has provided a copy of her credit report which clearly shows a default on her TSB
account and not a late payment marker. I thought provisionally that must be a mistake and 
that TSB was responsible for that mistake. I was satisfied that mistake resulted in Mrs Ms 
overdraft facility being removed and so I thought she was impacted by that mistake.
I thought the fairest approach would be for that default to be removed if it hasnt already 
been removed and for TSB to pay Mrs M £150 compensation. I thought that award was fair 
and reasonable and reflects the impact a default has upon a credit file and that the overdraft
facility was removed which would have caused distress and inconvenience.
Both TSB and Mrs M both agree with my provisional view.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same view that I came to in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons.  
Putting things right
TSB should remove the default from Mrs Ms credit file if it has not done so and pay her 
£150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order TSB Bank plc to remove the 
default from Mrs Ms credit file and pay her £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman