DRN-2051122
The complaint
Mr K complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited delayed placing his 
order to sell shares.
What happened
Mr K wanted to sell his holding of Allakos Inc  a US traded stock. He placed a fill or kill 
order at 2.27pm, three minutes before the market opened with a price of US$131. He 
expected the deal to go through when the market opened, but a few minutes after opening 
he was told the deal had been cancelled.
Mr K phoned Hargreaves Lansdown and he says he was told that such orders must be 
manually reviewed before they are placed. He placed an online sale order after the phone 
call, and his shares were sold at US$124.7. He says other sale orders took place just after 
the market opened for around US$132. He wants Hargreaves Lansdown to pay him for the 
loss he says hes incurred of US$770.
Hargreaves Lansdown said the orders were processed electronically in the order they were 
received and that there were a number of orders ahead of Mr K. It attempted the order at 
2.33pm, but Mr Ks requested price of US$131 couldnt be achieved, so he was told his 
order was cancelled.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Hargreaves Lansdown had caused any delay and that it had acted in line with its policies.
Mr K didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Hargreaves Lansdown describes a fill or kill order as one that is executed 
immediately. He placed his order before the market opened so that it would be dealt as 
soon as trading started.
He was told the order had to be manually reviewed, but with no explanation as to why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint for the following reasons:
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules set out how businesses must execute orders 
for their clients. Amongst other things, the rules say, (at COBS 11.3.1) that businesses must:
1. implement procedures and arrangements which provide for the prompt, fair and 
expeditious execution of client orders, relative to other orders or the trading interests of 
the firm.
2. These procedures or arrangements must allow for the execution of otherwise 
comparable orders in accordance with the time of their reception by the firm.
The rules go on to say that comparable orders should be dealt sequentially and promptly.
Hargreaves Lansdown told us it has received a high volume of orders for US stocks that day 
and there were a number of orders that had been received ahead of Mr Ks. This meant that, 
whilst trading opened at 2.30pm, his order wasnt attempted until 2.33pm, because of the 
number of orders in front of Mr Ks. Im satisfied that Hargreaves Lansdown fulfilled its 
obligation to execute Mr Ks order promptly. 
As Mr K had placed a fill or kill order at US$132 and that price wasnt obtainable at 2.33pm, 
his order was cancelled. This was in line with Hargreaves Lansdowns order handling policy.
Ive considered what Mr K has said  that in the order handling policy, a kill or fill order is 
described as one that is executed immediately. I think this description accurately 
differentiates this type of order from a limit order. A limit order is only triggered and dealt 
once the stated price is reached; and is only cancelled after a period of 90 days or when the 
consumer cancels it. Whereas a kill or fill order is dealt as soon as practically possible after 
its been received. If the price isnt reached, it is immediately cancelled. I think the kill and 
fill order description is reasonably clear.
Mr K said he placed the order via Hargreaves Lansdowns mobile app. And I asked it to send 
us an example screenshot to show what Mr K would have seen when he placed the order, 
bearing in mind he placed it before the market opened. The screenshot provided shows that 
Mr K would have seen the following explanation:
Outside of market hours you will not see a live market price but you can still leave a dealing 
instruction. Leave a fill or kill order to deal when the market opens or as soon as practicable 
thereafter.
And as noted above, I find this is what happened.
Mr K says that, when he phoned to ask why his order hadnt been dealt, he was told it had to 
be manually reviewed. I accept this is possible. But Hargreaves Lansdowns records of the 
call show that Mr K was told his order was cancelled, or killed, by electronic system 
because the price spread was outside of the price hed requested. There doesnt seem to be 
any reference made to a manual process, so I think there may have been a 
misunderstanding here. In any event, I dont find that whatever he might have been told 
during the phone call makes a difference to the overall outcome here. I find that Hargreaves 
Lansdown handled Mr Ks order in line with its agreed terms and conditions, including its 
order handling policy, and in line with its regulatory obligations.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman