DRN-3460639
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly recorded a 
default against him. He said that Barclaycard has now awarded him redress sin respect of 
that account  and that supports that it hasnt treated him fairly.
What happened
Mr K had a credit card with Barclaycard. That account was closed and a default issued in 
2019. He referred a complaint about that and the fees that had been applied to his credit 
card in 2021. In June 2021, an ombudsman made a decision that we couldnt look at that 
complaint as it had been referred to us more than six months after Barclaycard had issued 
its final response.
In November 2021, Barclaycard wrote to Mr K as it had made mistakes with the direct debits 
on his credit card. It refunded any additional interest and fees charged during that period 
with interest  totalling £149.67.
In December 2021, Barclaycard wrote to Mr K to say that it hadnt applied payments 
correctly to his credit card. It said that it would refund any additional interest and fees 
charged during that period  totalling £23.01.
Mr K consider that the two letters from Barclaycard accepting that it had made mistakes are 
evidence to support that the default was recorded incorrectly.
Our investigator said that we couldnt look at the complaint about the default. She said the 
above remediation letters were not linked to the default  but the offers of compensation 
were fair.
Mr K responded to say that the reason he defaulted was that a refund wasnt made as 
promised. He said he called Barclaycard numerous time, but a manger never called him 
back. Then he was ill with Covid  and by that point a default had been recorded. Mr K said 
he was disabled and that hadnt been taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A large part of this complaint is about the fairness of the default and the circumstances in 
which it was recorded. But I cant consider that. One of my colleagues already made a 
decision that we couldnt consider that complaint as it was made more than six months after 
Barclaycard had issued a final response. I cant reopen or relook at that complaint  Mr K 
should refer to that decision is he wants the reasons why we cant consider that matter. And 
the position is the largely the same. This final response was issued by Barclaycard on 30 
June 2021. So Mr K was out of time to revive the complaint when he referred it to us in 
January 2022.
I have looked closely at the two remediation letters Mr K has sent us. It appears that 
Barclaycard discovered some issues relating to the way it administered Mr Ks credit card 
when it was open. But I cant see that those letters are material to any decision relating to 
the default. And it doesnt change the fact that the complaint about the default is out of time.
We have considered whether the offers from Barclaycard in respect of the remediation 
letters were fair and reasonable. I consider that Barclaycards offers are fair for the mistakes 
it has identified. And it isnt in dispute that Barclaycard didnt handle things well once Mr K 
complained. But complaint handling isnt an activity I can consider under our rules. 
My final decision
We cant consider a complaint about the default as it ii has been brought outside our time 
limits. My colleague has already set out the reasons for that in another decision.
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint about the remediation letters or how 
Barclaycard handled this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman