DRN-2822999
The complaint
Mr K complains that an international transfer he attempted was held up for additional checks 
by Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
On 12 August 2020 Mr K instructed an international transfer to a family member abroad. Mr 
K has explained the funds formed part of an inheritance and were intended to be used for a 
house purchase. 
Santanders systems held Mr Ks transfer for further checks to be completed. Santander also 
blocked Mr Ks online banking facility whilst it was carrying out further checks. 
Santander spoke with Mr K and he confirmed the payment was genuine. The payment was 
reviewed by Santanders fraud team and released on 13 August 2020. Santander sent Mr C 
a letter on the same date to confirm the payment was made. 
Mr K complained but Santander didnt agree an error had been made. It said the payment in 
question had been identified for further checks and they were completed within the 48 hour 
timescale required. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Santander had dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly, so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr K 
asked to appeal and said Santander shouldve called him to confirm the payment was 
released and his online account access had been restored. As Mr K asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr K was concerned that his transfer was held by Santander for 
further checks. The sums involved were large and Mr K has explained they represented part 
of an inheritance to be used for a house purchase. But I have to balance that against 
Santanders obligation to ensure its customers funds are protected. 
Santander has sent evidence to show the transfer was held for additional checks by its fraud 
department. Ive looked at the account terms and they allow Santander to refuse to make a 
payment if it has concerns about fraud. In this case, Im satisfied Santander was acting in 
line with the account terms when it placed a hold on the transfer and limited Mr Ks online 
account access when its systems identified the payment for further checks. 
Santander says that because of the pandemic it tried to resolve payment queries of this 
nature within 48 hours. In Mr Ks case, he spoke with Santander to confirm the payment was 
genuine and it was released on 13 August 2020. I havent seen anything that shows Mr Ks 
payment was unreasonably delayed by Santander. 
Mr K says Santander shouldve called him to confirm the payment had gone through and his 
online account access was restored. I take Mr Ks point and I understand that a call to 
confirm the payment was sent wouldve been helpful. But Santander has confirmed it doesnt 
normally call customers when a payment is released and I can see it wrote to Mr K with that 
information. Whilst I can understand why Mr K wanted a call, I can see he was able to 
access his account within a few days of the payment request.
Santanders final response to Mr K apologised for the inconvenience caused and I think 
thats a fair way to resolve this complaint. I havent found Santander made an error by 
holding the payment for further checks. In addition, I havent found evidence to show 
unreasonable delays. Taking all the available information into account, Im satisfied 
Santanders apology is a fair way to resolve Mr Ks complaint so Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman