DRN-2533375
The complaint
Mr H has a number of complaints about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). (1) It failed to 
update his change of address correctly (2) It withdrew an overdraft facility without notifying 
him (3) It failed to notify him of the overdraft withdrawal other than by post (4) His credit file 
has been adversely affected by the above. Mr H has made other complaints surrounding 
these issues which have been dealt with separately, and so, for the sake only of clarity the 
above are the only issues I am looking at in this decision.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr H went into a Barclays branch and told them of a change of address. 
Mr H also called Barclaycard on 10 December 2017 and again asked them to change his 
address, which they did. This did not result in his address being changed within Barclays 
however. As a result, Mr H didnt receive letters Barclays later sent in 2019 regarding his 
accounts, the lack of payment to them, and ultimately the removal of the overdraft facility 
and the entry of his account into an unauthorised overdraft position with the recording of that 
fact on his credit file. 
Mr H complained to Barclays who rejected his complaint. Barclays didnt believe it had done 
anything wrong as it had not been notified of his changed address. It also thought that Mr H 
ought to have been aware he had not made a payment to his account and that it was his 
responsibility to manage it. Mr H was unhappy with Barclays final response and so 
approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr H asked for it to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted by Barclays that Mr H went into branch and notified them of a change of his 
address on 4 December 2017. I have seen evidence of that in Barclays address history. But 
then on 10 December 2017 Mr H rang Barclaycard and updated his address again, this time 
to a further different address. Of significance is that Mr H rang Barclaycard which is a 
separate legal entity, on this second occasion, and so Barclays were unaware of the address 
change.
It is also accepted that Barclays sent out letters through the post to Mr H although he never 
received them. I accept that he did not, because Barclays did not have the correct address 
for him. But Barclays terms and conditions provide that it is Mr Hs responsibility to update 
Barclays of any change in address. It is clear that he did that on 4 December but not on 10 
December, as he only told Barclaycard, not Barclays. So, as a fact Barclays were not 
notified of the address change on 10 December.
However, putting aside the address change notification, there remains the issue of the 
responsibility on Mr H to manage his own account. That responsibility requires him to check 
his account and regularly pay into it, in line with the terms and conditions. Mr H had, at the 
relevant time, active online banking, mobile banking and telephone banking, and so it is 
reasonable to expect that he would have monitored his account, and his address, in at least 
one of those ways. As Mr H didnt pay into his account regularly, he breached the terms and 
conditions and so Barclays were entitled to give him notice to close the account. The notice 
they gave was in line with the terms and conditions and so I cant say he wasnt given due 
notice.
Part of Mr Hs complaint is that he feels Barclays could have tried to contact him by other 
methods. Barclays have confirmed that their procedure and policy is not to communicate 
other than by post when an account enters limit management as did Mr Hs. Barclays 
procedures is not something I can interfere with. Our service doesnt have the power to 
make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they change their policy or 
procedures. We only look at what happened in the circumstances of the individual complaint 
and check that Barclays followed its rules and procedures and is applying them fairly to all 
customers. 
As a fact, because Mr H did not maintain his account in accordance with the terms and 
conditions, it fell into an unauthorised overdraft position. And, because of that position 
Barclays were required to make a report to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) as they 
are required to report the factual position. 
It follows from my findings, that Mr H did not update Barclays with his correct address details 
and as a result of that he did not receive the correspondence sent to him. I cannot criticise 
Barclays for sending the correspondence to the address they held. It also follows that Mr H 
did not maintain his account in accordance with the terms and conditions he agreed to and 
because of that his account fell into an unauthorised overdraft position, which then required 
reporting to the CRAs.
So, although Mr H will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman