DRN-2499374
The complaint
Mr H complains about interest The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) charged to his credit card 
account.
What happened
Mr H has a credit card with Co-op, he transferred a balance to his account that was on a 
promotional rate of 0% APR - so he wasnt getting charged interest on this balance.
Then, Mr H made two purchases with the card  one on 28 May 2020 and one on 
15 July 2020. The purchases he made werent on a promotional rate and so interest was 
charged on these purchases at a rate of 21.9% APR.
Mr H says he made more than the monthly minimum repayment each month and then paid 
extra on the day of the purchase, or a couple of days later, to repay these so he wouldnt get 
charged interest on these.
Mr H then noticed that he was getting charged interest on his statements. He didnt expect to 
see this as he thought he had repaid the purchases almost immediately after he made them. 
He says that he expected the extra payments he made to cover the purchases, to be applied 
to the purchase balance, as this was at a higher interest rate. Mr H suspects that he has 
been charged residual interest on interest.
Mr H contacted Co-op about this. He says he was on the phone for around 46 minutes trying 
to understand what had happened. But Co-op told him that there hadnt been an error in 
applying the interest.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. While he agreed that Co-op could have 
explained things better to Mr H, he didnt think that Co-op had made an error when applying 
interest to his account. And he gave his reasons for this in his view.
Mr H responded to say he didnt agree with our investigator. He says that he made a 
sufficient payment to clear the interest on the account almost immediately. He says he was 
charged interest and then interest on that interest over a period of a few months. 
Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint, and Ill explain my reasons for doing 
this below.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs account say:
We charge interest from the date we add each transaction or charge to your account  which 
may not be the same as the date you made the transaction  until you have fully repaid the 
amount you owe. We work out interest daily and add it to your account on the next statement 
date. If you repay your statement balance (including all promotional balances) in full by the 
due date, we wont charge interest on purchases shown on that statement  provided you 
also paid the previous months balance in full by the due date.
Mr H had a balance transfer on his account at a promotional rate of 0%. So, in order for him 
to not get charged interest on any purchases he made, he would have needed to repay the 
full amount owing  including the balance transfer on the promotional rate. Mr H didnt repay 
the full statement balance, so I cant agree that it was wrong of Co-op to apply interest to the 
purchases he made.
The terms and conditions then go on to say:
Repayments will pay off the minimum payment shown on your statement, then the remaining 
balance shown on your statement, then any items not yet included on a statement. If you 
pay less than the total amount owing, your payment reduces higher interest-rate balances 
(such as cash transactions) first, before lower interest-rate balances (such as purchases).
So essentially, what this is saying is any repayments that are made to the account, will repay 
the balance showing on the most recent statement. And these payments would be used to 
pay the minimum amount due first and then anything on a higher interest rate balance on 
that statement. The last thing that would be repaid would be items that were not yet showing 
on the statement. 
Ive looked at what this means for Mr Hs complaint. I can see that when he made purchases 
using the card, he did make a payment to the account shortly after. It looks like it was his 
intention to repay the purchase amount, but that isnt how repayments to this account seem 
to work. Because the purchases Mr H was trying to pay hadnt yet been added to his 
statement balance, the additional payments he made were used to clear the statement 
balance instead  as per the terms and conditions Ive mentioned above. 
This means Mr H was charged interest on the purchases he made from the date they were 
applied to his account, until the date they were repaid. And the additional payments he was 
making to the account were used to repay anything on a higher balance from his last 
statement balance. This meant that he didnt always pay enough to clear the full purchase 
balance from his most recent statement. And so, interest would be charged on these 
purchases again on the next statement. 
Ive looked at the statements Mr H received each month  and the information provided on 
the reverse. This says If you pay less than the total amount owing, we will use that payment 
to reduce your higher interest-rate balances first (such as cash withdrawals), before your 
lower interest-rate balances (such as purchases).
So I can understand why he might have thought that making an additional payment to the 
account would clear off any balance on a higher rate first. But the information on the reverse 
of the statement, relates to the balance on that statement only. Any additional payment he 
made to the account, after hed received that statement, would have been allocated towards 
anything on a higher balance showing on that statement. And Im satisfied the information on 
the statement should be read together with  rather than instead of the terms and conditions. 
Ive looked at Mr Hs statements, and Im satisfied that it has applied interest to his account 
in line with its terms and conditions, so I cant fairly say it has made an error here. Mr H has also said that he has been charged interest on interest. But I dont agree. The 
terms and conditions of his account say:
Youll pay off all interest added in a month as long as you pay at least the minimum 
payment. If you dont, well charge interest on that interest.
So, Co-op can charge interest on interest, but only where the minimum repayment wasnt 
met that month. I can see that Mr H has paid at least his minimum repayment due each 
month. So for this reason and for the reasons Ive already set out above, I dont think he has 
been charged interest on the purchase interest.
I have also listened to the calls Mr H had with Co-op about the issue. I agree that Co-op 
could have explained the way interest is charged and applied better. I found the explanation 
it gave quite confusing, so it doesnt surprise me that Mr H wasnt able to agree with what 
was told had happened. But ultimately, this doesnt change my view that Co-op has applied 
the interest correctly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman