DRN-4176949
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc keeps charging him cash interest on his credit card 
account.
What happened
Mr D used his HSBC credit card, and a transaction was classed as a cash transaction. He 
says he realised over the next few months that HSBC kept charging him on a monthly basis 
a cash interest fee, so he spoke to branch staff who explained the interest was ongoing for 
the specific cash transaction. Mr D made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. They said unlike purchases, there is no interest free 
period on cash advances. Therefore, when a cash advance or equivalent debits the account, 
interest will accrue on this amount daily until the amount is repaid. They said this means the 
following months statement will have an interest charge even if he paid the balance in full 
that month. Mr D brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said both the terms and conditions and 
statements explain that interest is charged when the card is used for anything that isnt a 
purchase, such as a cash withdrawal in this case. Following a cash payment in January 
2023, the bank charged interest in accordance with the cards operating terms. Mr D asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He forwarded to our service statements which 
showed non-sterling cash fees and non-sterling transaction fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must explain to Mr D that Im only able to investigate the original complaint he has brought 
to our service. This was a complaint about being charged cash interest on his credit card 
account. This is what HSBC addressed in their final response to Mr Ds complaint. Mr D has 
sent us his statements where he has highlighted different non-sterling cash fees and non-
sterling cash transaction fees over different months. But these relate to his current account 
as these are current account statements and not credit card statements he has sent us. 
So if Mr D wishes to complain about these charges he will need to raise a separate 
complaint to HSBC about these charges as I do not have the power to investigate these as 
part of this complaint. If Mr D does make a complaint to HSBC about his current account and 
he is not happy with their final response, then he may be able to bring the current account 
charges complaint to our service.
Ive looked at the information from HSBC regarding Mr Ds credit card. I can see from the 
terms and conditions of the credit card and a summary box page of his credit card statement 
that HSBC have different categories of transactions. One of these categories are purchases, 
and one of these categories is cash transactions. These documents set out what types of 
transactions would be considered cash transactions.
The summary box page of Mr Ds credit card statement also has a section titled On cash 
transactions. Within this section, HSBC say Interest will be charged from the date of each 
cash transaction, even if you pay the balance in full each month, until the cash transaction 
(including interest) is paid in full. So Im satisfied that HSBC are clear that even if Mr D pays 
his credit card statement in full each month, then interest would be charged from the date of 
each cash transaction, until the transaction is paid in full.
From the information HSBC have provided our service, an example of this is on 23 January 
2023 when a transaction Mr D made was categorised as a cash transaction. He was 
charged 8p cash interest as HSBC confirmed he made a payment on 3 February 2023, so 
this would be interest he was charged daily until he fully repaid the cash transaction. HSBC 
have provided their own system screenshot of his 10 March 2023 credit card statement, and 
this shows No interest charged on this statement. 
So Im satisfied that HSBC have charged interest in line with the terms and conditions and 
the information provided in Mr Ds credit card statements. So it follows I dont require HSBC 
to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman