DRN-3160252
The complaint
Mr S has complained that he was wrongly advised by Quays Wealth Management Limited to
transfer benefits from two of his final salary pension schemes to a personal pension.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 8 October 2021. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. I have copied the relevant part of the provisional decision here.
Quays Wealth Management Limited (which I will refer to as QWM) advised Mr S to transfer 
the benefits he had in two final salary pension schemes. The first was around October 2017 
and the second a few months later in early 2018. At the time Mr S:
Was in his early 50s
Was married, had one dependent child and was in good health
He had no debts and no mortgage on his main residence
He owned other properties  total value was £240,000
He had savings of approximately £50,000 and was saving £1,000 per month
His monthly expenditure was £1,600. This wasnt expected to change in 
retirement. His essential expenditure was £600 per month. It was noted that his 
state pension would cover this expenditure. And his rental income would provide 
discretionary expenditure of £1,000c
His attitude to risk was noted as 3 in the suitability letters (out of 10).
Mr S was recommended to transfer both of his defined benefit occupational pension 
schemes (OPSs) to a personal pension plan which facilitated flexi-access 
drawdown.
One of our investigators considered Mr S complaint. She thought it should be upheld. She 
said, in summary, that the starting point for an adviser was to assume that a transfer from 
a defined benefits pension scheme would be unsuitable. She noted that COBS 19.1.6 
provided that:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-
out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer,
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.  
She said an adviser therefore needed to clearly demonstrate that advice to transfer was in 
its clients best interests.
The investigator said the two OPSs formed a large part of Mr S retirement provision, 
albeit she noted the suitability report said that he had no need to rely on these pensions 
because he had his state pension and his rental income. She said Mr S had said he did 
have three rental properties at the time, but they all had mortgages. Mr S had provided 
evidence showing the rental income he received which the investigator said wouldnt 
cover his discretionary spending. Mr S said he hadnt planned to include rental income as 
part of his retirement income.
The investigator said that the Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) reports said the critical yield 
required on the transfer values at the time of the advice was 5.44% for one OPS and 
5.92% on the other. However that the suitability reports said the critical yields were 7.4% 
and 6.9%.
The investigator noted the advice was given shortly after the regulator gave instructions 
in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in 
pension transfer loss assessments. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published 
by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. She said whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, she thought 
they provided a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable at the time that advice was given to Mr S. This discount rate was 
4%.
The investigator said she had asked QWM for an explanation as to why the critical yields in 
the suitability report and TVASs had been different. But she hadnt received an explanation. 
She said the growth rates outlined in the suitability reports of 7.4 and 6.9% were 
significantly above the 4% figure. She said growth in excess of the critical yields were 
required to provide higher benefits than the OPSs. In view of these figures, she thought the 
opportunity to improve on the OPS benefits was very limited.
Mr S objectives were recorded in the suitability report as flexibility and death benefits. The 
investigator said that Mr S had a defined contribution scheme with his employer which 
would have provided this flexibility. The investigator said she didnt think the firm had 
demonstrated that sacrificing the guarantees provided by the defined benefit OPSs was in 
Mr S best interests.
The investigator said that weighing up all the evidence and the reasons given for 
transferring, she didnt think the firm should have recommended that Mr S transfer his 
pensions. She didnt think it was in his best interests. She said she thought that if Mr S 
had been advised to stay in the two OPSs he would have done so.
QWM didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary, that:
The advice had been based on the information that Mr S had provided at the 
time and which had been correctly documented. It appeared the investigator was 
relying on information provided after the event, rather than the information needs 
and objectives as recorded from the time.
The investigator had said that Mr S wasnt looking to take any income for years. It 
said this was incorrect. The fact-find and suitability report documented the 
discussions about taking tax-free cash at age 55, and phasing retirement income 
to become fully retired by age 66 at the latest. Mr S wanted his pension in a 
flexible environment in good time for when he reached aged 55.
He was concerned about death benefits. He didnt think the OPS benefits were 
sufficient to support his family on his death. He wanted the ability to pass funds 
onto family members. The fact-find noted if his wife pre-deceased him the 
pension would be lost on his death and not go to his child.The investigator appeared to have based her assessment on the critical yield. This 
wasnt in line with the FCAs approach. Although critical yield formed part of the 
overall advice process, the Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT) set 
out areas to consider when assessing suitability. It set out the areas to consider.
The investigator had said Mr S had told her he never intended for the property 
income to be relied on as part of his retirement income. But as part of the fact-
finding process Mr S had agreed to include that property income as part of his 
retirement plans.
It didnt agree with the investigator that it was normal practice to show that a 
transfer needed to have a significant chance of improving on the final salary 
pension benefit to be in a clients best interests. It said from a regulatory point of 
view this wasnt correct. It had shown the factors to consider as set out in the 
FCAs DBAAT.
The investigator had said the TVAS reports were incorrect and didnt consider 
future charges. This was incorrect  they were included and correct comparisons 
were undertaken.
The discount rates referred to by the investigator had no relevance and didnt 
form part of the advice process.
Mr S had confirmed that retirement would be gradual. The investigator had 
confirmed Mr S would fully retire early to look after his elderly parents. Taking 
benefits from the OPSs would have reduced the income by 50% due to early 
retirement factors. The advice was based on Mr S needs and objectives agreed at 
the time; a requirement to take a lump sum at age 55; phasing of retirement 
income; importance of death benefits; and need to keep income tax to a minimum.
The investigator said that having carefully considered the points QWM had raised, 
she wasnt persuaded to change her opinion that the complaint should be upheld.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, COBS 19.1.6 provided that the starting point when advising 
a retail client on a transfer from a defined benefits OPS was that it wouldnt be suitable. A 
firm should only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer.is in the client's best interests.
QWM considers the transfers were suitable because they met Mr S particular needs and 
objectives at the time (as set out above). Whilst I accept that these are factors that should 
be taken into account in assessing suitability, they need to be considered in the overall 
context of the transaction. The benefits offered by transferring to a personal pension have
to be weighed up against the advantages of remaining in the defined benefits scheme  
they cant be considered in isolation.
So whilst I agree with QWM that the chances of improving on the OPS benefits isnt 
always pivotal, in the vast majority of cases the critical yield will still usually be a factor to 
consider as it provides context to the risks the transfer presents.The transfer value for one of the OPSs was noted as £159,210 in the recommendation 
letter dated 19 October 2017. The copy of the letter provided by Mr S said, amongst other 
things:
The critical yields (based on retaining benefits until the scheme retirement age) needed 
to match your existing benefits is 7.4%. This is the rate of annual growth which would 
need to be achieved by the receiving arrangement to mirror the benefits being offered by 
your occupational scheme if you started to take pension benefits from age 65.
This, in our opinion, is an achievable return based on your retirement time horizon and 
the potential returns from the recommended fund portfolio
And under the section Attitude to Investment Risk it said:
The above funds were recommended based on the level of risk you are prepared to 
accept. This was discussed and agreed following the initial completion of a risk profiling 
questionnaire. Your risk profile is 3 on a scale of 1 to 10 and is deemed as lower risk.
You are likely to be concerned about losing money, but do not want to completely 
ignore the possibility of making higher returns than are offered by bank accounts 
and other low-risk investments.
Your preferred investments are likely to be mainly lower- and medium-risk 
investments such as cash, cash-type assets, bonds and UK commercial 
property, with a minority of higher-risk investments such as UK and overseas 
shares.
The transfer value for the second OPS was noted as £147,000. The copy of the 
recommendation letter provided by Mr S dated 31 January 2018 said, amongst other 
things:
The critical yields (based on retaining benefits until the scheme retirement age) needed 
to match your existing benefits is 6.9%. This is the rate of annual growth which would 
need to be achieved by the receiving arrangement to mirror the benefits being offered by 
your occupational scheme if you started to take pension benefits from age 65.
This, in our opinion, is an achievable return based on your retirement time horizon and 
the potential returns from the recommended fund portfolio
And under the section Attitude to Investment Risk it said:
The above funds were recommended based on the level of risk you are prepared to 
accept. This was discussed and agreed following the initial completion of a risk profiling 
questionnaire. Your risk profile is 3 on a scale of 1 to 10 and is deemed as lower risk.
You are likely to be concerned about losing money, but do not want to completely 
ignore the possibility of making higher returns than are offered by bank accounts 
and other low-risk investments.
Your preferred investments are likely to be mainly lower- and medium-risk 
investments such as cash, cash-type assets, bonds and UK commercial 
property, with a minority of higher-risk investments such as UK and overseas 
shares.The copies of the suitability letters provided to us by QWM had some differences  
albeit clearly meant to be the same letter and with the same date. There were a number 
of differences, but whats relevant here is that they said the critical yields were 5.92% 
and 5.44%. And they said that Mr S risk profile was 4 out of 10  a lower to balanced 
risk.
On the one hand, this was consistent with the TVAS reports provided by QWM which said 
the critical yields to age 65 were 5.92 and 5.44%. This was to match the income at age 65 
from the OPSs of £6,737 and £10,166 respectively. However, the critical yield required to 
match the Pension Protection Fund figure of £8,950 (for the second OPS) was 6.6%. So 
this figure was higher than the 5.44% required to provide a pension of £10,166. I dont 
know why this would be the case if the 5.44% figure is correct  it suggests there is an 
error somewhere.
The OPSs were estimated to provide a combined pension of £16,903 at age 65, 
increasing in retirement, and with 50% spouses pensions. Looking at the providers 
illustrations, at the investments mid-rate of return the combined transfer values were 
projected to buy a single life non-increasing pension of £12,000 at age 65. At the higher 
rate it was projected as £21,500. However this £21,500 figure at the higher rate would be 
closer to the OPSs benefits if increases in payment and a spouses pension were 
included.
So this doesnt seem to be consistent with the critical yields of 5.92 and 5.44%.
QWM has said that the TVAS figures were correct. However it hasnt provided an 
explanation as to why the versions of the suitability letters it supplied to us are different to 
those provided by Mr S. The suitability letters provided by Mr S were clearly the copies 
that were given to Mr S at the time. So I think Mr S would have proceeded on the basis of 
the information sent to him  that he had a lower risk profile.
And I think this is consistent with the Dynamic Planner Risk Profiler which was completed 
by Mr S. This had a section headed Attitude to Risk. It made a number of statements which 
Mr S had to indicate whether he agreed or disagreed with, and to what extent. His answers 
included:
That he Strongly Agreed that it was reckless to take financial risks. He agreed 
that he would rather know he was getting a guaranteed rate of return than be 
uncertain about his investments; that compared to the average person he took 
lower risks; he did not feel comfortable with financial uncertainty, and that he had 
been extremely cautious in his past financial investments. And he strongly 
disagreed that taking financial risks was important to him, or that he would be 
willing to risk a percentage of his income /capital in order to get a good return on an 
investment.
Mr S also said he was moderately comfortable when taking a financial risk. And he 
classed himself as neither risk averse nor a risk taker.
In my experience these types of questionnaire can provide some inconsistency 
between answers. The answers are a starting point for a more detailed discussion 
about risk. However I think overall, it was clear that Mr S didnt want to take any 
significant risks  and this was consistent with a risk profile of 3 out of 10  lower risk.
QWM has also said that Mr S had rental properties that were mortgage free. And hed said 
he could rely on the property rental income in retirement. Mr S has said this wasnt the case, and has provided evidence to show he had mortgages on the properties at the times 
he was advised was d to transfer.
The fact-find didnt record that there were any mortgages on the properties. However the 
section to record property details was left blank. As Ive said, Mr S has provided evidence 
to show he was paying mortgages on them. So I think these properties were providing an 
income, and could have done so going into Mr S retirement. But the level of income 
wasnt guaranteed or likely to be as high when Mr S retired. Like the investigator, I cant 
think why Mr S would have been motivated to say the properties werent mortgaged if hed 
been asked.
The COBS rules required QWM to give suitable advice. It was required to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that its recommendation was suitable for Mr S. In order to meet his 
investment objectives, the firm needed to consider Mr S preference for risk and his risk 
profile.
I think whats key is that whatever figures were correct, the transfers werent aligned to the 
degree of risk that Mr S wanted to take. As the investigator explained, the discount rate 
was 4%. The firm is right to say that the discount rate wasnt part of the advice process, and 
it wasnt required to take it into account. But I think it can be used here to provide some 
context to the degree of investment risk presented by the transfer in the circumstances at 
the time.
The regulators standard nominal rates of return for projections were 2,5 and 8%. So I 
think irrespective of which critical yields were correct, this is all consistent with the transfer 
presenting a greater degree of risk than the lower degree of risk that Mr S understood he 
had agreed to take (or even a lower to balanced).
The critical yields calculated showed the return required to merely match the benefits from 
the OPSs. They needed to be invested more in line with a balanced risk to stand still. Even 
if the aim wasnt to improve on the OPS benefits, by transferring, Mr S was having to take 
more of a balanced risk, unless he effectively accepted it was likely hed receive lower 
pension benefits from the personal pension than the OPSs in exchange for the flexibilities 
and benefits described.
But this wasnt how the transaction was framed in the suitability letters. Mr S may have 
been told he was giving up guarantees by transferring. But I dont think he was alerted to 
the reality that he was likely giving up a higher future income from the OPSs, in exchange 
for the benefits provided by the personal pension as described by QWM. QWM had said it 
thought the yields were achievable based on the level of risk Mr S had said he was 
prepared to accept.
Mr S had said he wanted an income of around £18,000 in retirement. The TVAS recorded 
that the two OPSs were estimated to have provided pensions at retirement date of £6,737 
and £10,166. If left in the OPSs they would therefore have provided significant pension 
benefits when Mr S reached age 65  estimated at £16,903. This was therefore a very 
healthy base income, would have increased in payment, and Mr S would have known he 
could rely on that income throughout his retirement. It would also have provided a 50% 
spouses pension  again approximately £8,450, still a significant and guaranteed income.
Giving up those largely guaranteed benefits in exchange for investment related benefits 
was a risk in itself. It wouldnt usually be suitable to advise a client who only wanted a 
lower rate of risk to give up the valuable largely guaranteed benefits they already had. 
There would need to be good reasons to do so.QWM has said there were good reasons; mainly that the flexibility offered by the personal
pension allowed Mr S to take a lump sum at age 55 and phase his retirement. And that the
death benefits were better than those provided by the OPS. It has said Mr S also wanted to
minimise his liability to tax.
The fact-find said Mr S may want to take tax free cash. The reasons why Mr S wanted to 
take a lump sum at age 55 werent recorded. He already had £50,000 in savings. And 
there was no record of a discussion about whether that could have better met his needs. It 
was noted that Mr S had concerns about losing the pension completely if his wife pre-
deceased him. However Mr S could have remained in his OPSs whilst his wife was still 
alive knowing that she would receive a 50% spouses pension. If his wife predeceased 
him, he could review the position at that time.
Mr S was still around two years away from reaching 55 at the time of the first 
recommendation to transfer, and around 18 months away at the second. It doesnt appear 
there were any firm plans for the tax-free cash  and he couldnt access it over that period 
in any event  or that he had any firm plans for when he wanted to start taking an income 
from his pensions.
Mr S could have stayed in his OPSs until either he needed to take some tax-free cash or 
an income from his pensions. He had two defined benefit OPSs, so had the option to take 
benefits from one OPS and leave the other to phase his retirement. And he had another 
money purchase pension scheme and his cash savings. So he had options available to 
him to provide flexibility.
I accept that taking the benefits prior to the OPSs normal retirement age may have meant 
a lower pension. But he could have considered his options about how to take benefits 
when they were needed, and without exposure to investment risk during the period up to 
taking those benefits.
As Ive said above, Mr S was told he was accepting a lower degree of risk. He was told in 
the suitability report that the firm thought the critical yields were achievable. So it wasnt the 
case that Mr S was told a transfer wasnt in line with the lower degree of risk he wanted to 
take, that there was a significant possibility the level of income the personal pension would 
provide would be lower that than OPSs, but that QWM thought a transfer was suitable 
given the other benefits a personal pension provided. In that situation he could have made 
an informed decision to accept a likely lower level of income in exchange for the flexibility 
and death benefits provided through the personal pension.
In my view Mr S would reasonably have understood from the suitability report that a transfer 
was suitable to the level of risk he wanted to take.
QWM has said that the investigators findings arent in line with the FCAs approach to 
pension transfers. It considers its advice was in accordance with the FCAs DBAAT. As I 
have said above, whilst I accept the benefits offered by the personal pension needed to be 
taken into account, the transaction needs to be considered in the whole  including its 
risks.
This is in line with the DBAAT which explained that COBS 9.2 required the firm to obtain 
information about Mr S investment objectives including his preferences for risk specific to 
the type of transaction. It says this might be obtained through an attitude to risk 
questionnaire that records the clients attitude to guaranteed income or guarantees in 
general. Mr S had completed a questionnaire and indicated he agreed that he would 
rather know he was getting a guaranteed rate of return than be uncertain about his 
investments.The DBAAT guidance said that the overarching requirement in COBS 9.2.1 was for the firm 
to take reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation was suitable for its client. It 
said the firm needed to consider its clients attitude to risk in relation to the investment 
growth required to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. And that where a 
TVAS showed the benefits of remaining in the scheme outweighed those likely to be 
available under the proposed arrangement, this would be a strong pointer against the 
transfer being in the clients best interests, unless there was some other compelling reason 
for the client to leave the OPS.
So was it in Mr S best interests to give up the significant and largely guaranteed income 
that could have been provided by the OPSs, in exchange for the benefits offered by the 
personal pension as the firm has described?
For the reasons I have outlined above, I dont consider it was. In my view there werent any 
compelling reasons to transfer out of the OPSs at the times that Mr S was advised to 
transfer.
Mr S already had some flexibility given his overall financial provision; his savings, his 
employers money purchase pension scheme and he had two OPSs that he could access 
at different times. He could have remained in his OPSs until he needed to access the 
benefits in either of those particular schemes and without exposure to investment risk.
The transfer may have provided some extra flexibility, but not at the time of transfer, as he 
was below pension age. The personal pension did provide different death benefits which I 
accept may have been attractive. However Mr S was recorded as being fit and healthy, 
and he could have considered his position if his wife pre-deceased him. I accept that he 
would have been able to pass on the benefits in the personal pension on his death. But as I 
say, this benefit needs to be weighed up against all the other risks and disadvantages of 
the transfer.
Given the critical yields (even at the lower rates), there was a significant risk that if he 
transferred out of the OPSs the income from the personal pension would be lower. In my 
view, the risks of the transfer far outweighed the benefits gained. There was no urgent 
need to transfer out of the schemes at the times Mr S was advised; whether Mr S was 
accepting a lower or lower to balanced risk. Mr S could have waited and considered all his 
options when he needed to access benefits  which presented a lot less risk.
So taking all this into account, I dont think the advice to transfer the OPSs to the personal 
pension was suitable. And, like the investigator, I think if QWM had suitably advised Mr S to 
stay in his OPSs which was aligned to the degree of risk that he wanted to take, he would
more likely than not have remained in those schemes.
So my provisional decision was to uphold Mr S complaint. I went on to set out how I thought 
Quays Wealth Management Limited should calculate and pay compensation to
Mr S. 
I asked Quays Wealth Management Limited and Mr S to provide any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr S said he had no final points to make. Quays Wealth Management Limited said it strongly 
believed I had arrived at the wrong conclusion. It said Mr S had lied in his evidence and had 
been influenced by the CMC whod had its permissions removed by the regulator. It said its 
file regarding issues such as taking benefits at age 55 and the importance of death benefits had been ignored, and it thought its advice had met the FCAs suitability assessment tool 
test.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision above that Mr S complaint should be upheld. 
Ive considered what QWM has said in response to my provisional decision. However I 
explained the reasons why I didnt think the advice was suitable in detail in that decision, and 
what QWM has said hasnt changed my view or reasons.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding on fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S, as far as its possible, into the 
position that he would likely have been in if but for the unsuitable advice.
I think Mr S would have remained in his OPS if suitable advice had been given. I therefore 
intend to order that Quays Wealth Management Limited calculates and pays 
compensation to Mr S on the following basis.
Quays Wealth Management Limited should undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. This calculation should be carried out as at the date of a final decision, 
and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr S acceptance of a 
final decision.
Quays Wealth Management Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr S contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr S SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  which I think is likely to be 20% here. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately 
reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date 
Quays Wealth Management Limited receiving notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of a final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Quays Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
I also order that Quays Wealth Management Limited pays Mr S £400 for the distress 
Im satisfied having a potentially materially lower income in retirement has caused him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Quays Wealth Management Limited pays Mr S the 
balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Quays Wealth Management 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to get independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint. 
I order Quays Wealth Management Limited to calculate loss and pay compensation to Mr S 
as I have outlined in Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman