DRN-1423763
The complaint
Mr Ws unhappy Acromas Insurance Company Limited wont pay out on a claim he made 
under his breakdown repair cover policy.
Another company is involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it, Ive just 
referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr Ws car was at a garage to be inspected for damage to the timing chain. 
The cost of the inspection and repairs were around £700, which Mr W wanted Acromas to 
pay. Acromas explained they wouldnt cost these costs, because it didnt meet the terms of 
the policy Mr W held with them. So, Mr W complained.
Acromas replied and said because Mr Ws car had only been placed on cover with them in 
May 2019, and the incident occurred in June 2019, they wanted to inspect the car. They 
found the issue with the timing chain wasnt a sudden fault and existed prior to the journey 
taken. They said all these points were explained in the policy  so wouldnt meet Mr Ws 
claim.
Unhappy with this, Mr W asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so but felt 
Acromas had turned down Mr Ws claim fairly. Mr W didnt agree with this saying the fact the 
fault developed a few months after hed got the policy was irrelevant. So, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain that if Mr Ws situation isnt covered by the policy he purchased, 
then its unlikely Id ask Acromas to meet his claim. And, for the reasons Ill go on to explain, 
Im satisfied Mr Ws situation isnt covered by his policy, so I think Acromas have acted fairly 
turning it down.
A Breakdown is defined in the policy terms as A sudden or unexpected event involving the 
Nominated vehicle: a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical failure, amongst other things.
And, a Mechanical or Electrical failure is defined as The sudden and unforeseen breaking 
or burning out (electrical) of any insured part(s).
The policy goes on to explain theyll pay for a claim regarding parts and labour if the car has 
a breakdown. So, I need to decide whether Mr Ws car meets the above definition of 
breakdown or not.
To decide this Ive looked closely at the expert engineers report. This says theres no 
evidence to suggest the timing chain had suffered a sudden failure. So, because its not a 
sudden failure, I dont think I can reasonably say it meets the definition of Mechanical or 
Electrical failure as outlined above, which means it cant meet the definition of a breakdown.
But, even if I was satisfied it did meet that condition, then I still think Acromas have acted 
fairly by turning down the claim. I say that because the report also says the timing chain 
wear would have been developing when the car was added to the policy only a month 
earlier. And, in the general exclusions on the policy it says Acromas wont pay Any costs for 
repairs following a Mechanical or Electrical failure if a) The faults existed prior to the 
purchase of this cover.
So, for the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied Acromas have turned down Mr Ws 
claim fairly.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman