DRN-2640482
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P have complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) sold them 
two packaged bank accounts in their sole names, when it should have sold them one joint 
account, which they believe would have given them the same benefits for half the cost. 
Mr P and Mrs P think that RBS should pay them compensation for the period of time they 
held their sole packaged accounts simultaneously.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P have banked with RBS for quite a long time and have held several joint 
and sole accounts of different types. RBS has reviewed its records for them and has told 
us that their account history is as follows:
Accounts in Mr Ps sole name
Mr P opened a fee-free account in May 1994.
In November 1999, RBS sold him a Royalties Gold account for which it charged 
him a fee, and which replaced his fee-free account.
In July 2015, RBS switched him to a Select Platinum account, which replaced 
his Royalties Gold account and for which it also charged him a fee.
I understand that Mr P asked RBS to switch his Select Platinum account back to a 
fee-free account in May 2018, but there was some delay. In July 2019, RBS paid 
him some compensation for this delay.
Accounts in Mrs Ps sole name
Mrs P opened a fee-free account in August 2003.
In June 2006, RBS sold her a Royalties Gold account for which it charged her a 
fee, and which replaced her fee-free account.
In August 2006, RBS sold her a Royalties Premier account, which replaced 
her Royalties Gold account and for which it charged her a fee.
In December 2014, RBS switched her to a Select Platinum account, which 
replaced her Royalties Premier account and for which it also charged her a fee.

In May 2018, Mrs P switched back to a fee-free account.
Accounts in Mr P and Mrs Ps joint names
They opened a fee-free account in June 2004.
In December 2016, RBS sold them a Reward account, which replaced their fee-
free account and for which it charged them a fee.
In May 2018, it sold them a Reward Platinum account, which replaced their 
Reward account and for which it charged a fee.
I believe that RBSs records about this are probably reliable, and I have taken them to 
be accurate.
From this history, throughout the period between June 2006 and May 2018, Mr P and Mrs 
P held Royalties Gold, Royalties Premier or Select Platinum accounts at the same time as 
each other in their sole names. These accounts provided various insurance and non- 
insurance benefits. The crux of Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint is that they believe that if they 
had held a single joint packaged account, they would have received the same benefits at 
half the cost, but RBS didnt tell them this. Instead it sold them two separate accounts.
I previously sent Mr P and Mrs P and RBS a provisional decision on this complaint. In that 
provisional decision, I set out the background and circumstances of the case and I explained 
that I thought RBS had treated Mr P and Mrs P unfairly. I invited both parties to send me any 
further comments they wished to make before I reached a final decision.
The period of time I allowed for further comments has now passed. Mr P and Mrs P have 
said they agree with my provisional decision and RBS has not said anything further. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. As there is 
nothing new for me to consider since I sent my provisional decision, I have reached the 
same conclusion for the same reasons. I have decided to uphold Mr P and Mrs Ps 
complaint. I have explained my decision below. As there is nothing new, much of what 
follows is virtually identical to what I said in my provisional decision. 
Firstly, I would like to confirm that if Mr P and Mrs P had held a single joint account, they 
would have received largely the same benefits as they did by having two accounts. There 
may have been some small differences (for example, for some of the insurance benefits, 
the number of claims allowed, or the maximum value that could be claimed, may have 
varied between two sole accounts and one joint account), but I dont think these possible 
variances are significant to this complaint.
Mr P and Mrs P have been clear with us in saying that they wanted the benefits the PBAs 
offered; but it does seem to me that when RBS sold them two sole accounts rather than 
one joint account, it was effectively charging them twice as much as was necessary to 
meet their needs.
This period of possible double charging started when RBS sold the Royalties Gold account 
to Mrs P in June 2006. At that time, there were several other options available. For 
example, Mr P could have converted his Royalties Gold account to a joint account; or Mr P 
and Mrs  P could have opened a new joint account and Mr P closed his, or they could have 
converted the fee-free account they had held jointly since June 2004 and Mr P closed his.
The period of double charging seems to have ended in May 2018 when Mr P and Mrs P 
both asked to change the two Select Platinum accounts in their own names to fee-free 
accounts and jointly bought the Reward Platinum account instead.RBS has told us that it didnt bring this possible double charging to Mr P or Mrs Ps 
attention as some couples like to keep their finances separate and it was prohibited from 
discussing Mr Ps account with Mrs P, or vice versa, by legislation protecting personal 
information.
I understand RBSs arguments, but I am not convinced by them. It seems to me that when 
it sold Mrs P the Royalties Gold or Royalties Premier accounts, it could have told her that a 
partner could share the benefits of a joint account without breaking any legislation, and 
without mentioning Mr Ps account. Or it could have explained they she and Mr P could 
have converted their existing joint account to a PBA and so both received the potential 
benefits.
Similarly, it could also have told Mr P about the possibility of a joint account when it sold 
him the Royalties Gold account in 1999. And I gather there were other meetings where it 
could have raised this. But it seems not to have done so.
RBS has told us that if (Mr P and Mrs P) had enquired if they could have had a joint 
packaged account then they would have been offered one. But I dont think this mitigates 
its shortcomings. I think it puts too much of an onus on Mr P and Mrs P to understand 
RBSs products and procedures. RBS has told us that it gave Mr P and Mrs P fair, clear 
and non-misleading information about its packaged accounts, but by omitting to tell them 
clearly about the benefits a joint account, I dont think it did.
Looking at the entire account history, Mr P and Mrs P held over ten different types of 
account with RBS and I find it unlikely that it could not have found a legal way to give them 
clear information that a joint PBA would have provided both of them with the full range of 
benefits, and save them money compared to their sole accounts. This would have been a 
fair and reasonable action for RBS to take. It didnt do so, and I believe that Mr P and Mrs 
P lost out as a result by paying for two sole packaged accounts when one joint packaged 
account would have met their needs. It follows that RBS should put things right for them 
by paying them appropriate compensation.
I will explain how RBS should work out the compensation shortly. But before that, I want to 
explain my findings about the delay Mr P experienced when he tried to switch his Select 
Platinum account to a fee-free account; and on the Reward account which RBS sold to Mr 
P and Mrs P jointly in December 2016.
I dont know a great deal about the reasons for the delay with the Select Platinum account, 
but as RBS has accepted responsibility for the delay, I have not investigated them in any 
depth. Instead, I have checked the way RBS worked how much compensation it should pay 
to Mr P. I have seen an outline of its calculation and it seems to have done things fairly. So, 
I am not going to tell it to pay Mr P any further compensation for this.
Turning to the Reward account. This account had a relatively low fee. Its main feature was 
that customers could earn rewards when they used it to pay for some types of product or 
service. It did not offer a similar range of benefits to the other accounts which RBS sold to 
Mr P and Mrs P. I do not think RBS mis-sold it to Mr P and Mrs P.
So, in summary, I currently think that RBS failed to give Mr P and Mrs P clear information 
about the benefits of a joint packaged bank account, and if it had done so, I think they 
would have bought one joint account rather than spending money on two sole accounts.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr P and Mrs P, RBS should put then into the financial position theyhave been in if they held one joint PBA from June 2006 until May 2018.
As Mr P and Mrs P had different PBAs for some of this period, I cant tell for sure which 
type of account they would have held jointly. But as Mr P was the first to buy a PBA, I think 
its most likely that if RBS had done things fairly, Mr P and Mrs P would have converted his 
account to a joint one, and not bought any others (except for the Reward account which I 
have already mentioned).
.
RBS should therefore:
refund Mr P and Mrs P all the fees it charged for Mrs Ps sole PBAs (the 
Royalties Gold account, the Royalties Premier account and the Select Platinum 
account),
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from 
the date Mrs P paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest. RBS must 
give Mr P and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if they ask for one.
If RBS can show that Mr P and Mrs P gained financially from any banking benefits that 
came with the PBAs by having two sole accounts rather the one single joint account, then it 
may deduct the relevant amount from the compensation worked out as above. If it chooses 
to do this, then it must set out its calculation clearly and simply for Mr P and Mrs P, so they 
can follow what it has done.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint 
about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. It should put things right for them by 
paying them the compensation I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman