DRN-3291028
The complaint
Mrs T says Acromas Insurance Company Limited treated her unfairly when calling her about 
a home insurance policy. Acromas are the underwriter of the policy and Saga made the calls 
on their behalf.
What happened
Mrs T says she was cold-called by Saga on several occasions. She took out a policy with 
them to commence in August 2019, and when making a claim for damage to her property, 
was told it wouldnt be something they could help with.
During the course of the claim it came to light that the policy might not have been set up on 
the correct basis. It had been set up as Mrs T living at her property with a family member, 
but Saga thought that might not be right.
Saga called Mrs T to check this and she clarified that she lives with a friend who shares the 
bills. Saga said they treat such an arrangement as Mrs T having a lodger. Saga said, unless 
it was corrected, the policy may no longer be valid.
Mrs T was unhappy with this and with being asked for personal information. She felt that the 
adviser was rude and shouted at her.
Eventually, Mrs T requested that her policy be cancelled and asked for a full refund to be 
provided, because she felt the policy had never been valid. Mrs T also said Saga should pay 
compensation for the way they spoke to her, but more importantly, shed like them to change 
their practices of cold-calling.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They felt that Saga was reasonable to contact 
their customers by telephone. This wasnt an unsolicited sales call but was in relation to an 
existing business-customer relationship. The investigator didnt feel the callers were rude.
Mrs T didnt agree, she maintained that Saga were rude and shouted at her. And that they 
shouldnt be allowed to just call her out of the blue. They werent calls she had been 
expecting and she said they couldve written to her instead.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the sake of clarity, I understand Mrs T had a separate complaint about the cancellation 
and refund of the policy. That hasnt formed part of my consideration, my focus has been on 
the calls.
Id like to start by explaining that I understand Mrs Ts frustration. Shes told us that shes 
wary of fraud and scams. And so, doesnt like to provide her personal information when 
someone calls her, especially if it isnt a call shes expecting. I completely understand this, 
and many would agree it is sensible to be wary of such things.
But businesses are allowed to call their customers, it can sometimes be a quick and easy 
way to resolve any issues that may arise. Indeed, we will also call consumers if we think its 
the best way to move things forward.
In Mrs Ts case, Saga called because there was a discrepancy on her policy. It had been set 
up on the basis of her living with family. When Saga realised that might not be correct, they 
needed to ensure the details were accurate, otherwise any future claims might not be 
payable. That was the reason for the calls. Given how the matter could affect future claims  
which could arise at any time  Im satisfied it was reasonable for Saga to call Mrs T, as its a 
quick form of communication.
That said, if she really was uncomfortable speaking to Saga, Mrs T could have decided not 
to continue the calls.
Turning to the way the advisers spoke to Mrs T, I too found them to be professional. I 
appreciate the first call started off sounding like it was a sales call, so I can understand why 
that was of concern, and brought to mind cold-calling. But the adviser clarified that he wasnt 
trying to sell Mrs T anything and instead was calling about the policy she already held.
I accept that the adviser could have explained more clearly what the issue was and why he 
needed to clarify the living arrangements. But I dont think he was rude, nor do I think he 
shouted at Mrs T. The call could have gone better but I dont think it was so bad as to allow 
me to award compensation. I would say the same about the second call too.
The third call I listened to is one which Mrs T has said was far more reasonable, so I dont 
think theres any need for me to comment further on that.
Mrs T has said she felt there may have been more calls, but Im satisfied those Ive received 
are the relevant ones. The three I have listened to are a fair reflection of the three that Mrs T 
described in the complaint form she sent to us.
I understand Mrs Ts frustration that she was being told her accidental damage cover would 
be removed as she wasnt living with family. And that she wouldnt receive a refund. I also 
appreciate she feels that her policy was never valid, and that Saga were wrong to provide 
the policy on the basis of an assumption that she was living with family, even if it was 
something she agreed to as part of the application. Furthermore, Mrs T made a good point 
during one of the calls that accidental damage would be more likely if she had a grandchild 
living with her, i.e. family
The problem with that is, its generally for underwriters to decide what risks they will and 
wont cover. So, while certain aspects of their decisions may not be those a customer would 
agree with, they can choose who is and isnt allowed accidental damage cover, provided 
they do so in a consistent and fair basis.
I dont think this means the policy was never valid though. Where a policy is set up and 
information is found to be slightly wrong  whether based on an assumption or not  there is 
legislation for dealing with that. And so, if it was found that someone selling a policy had 
been unclear about their assumptions, they may have to honour the policy and cover any 
payable claims. In this case though, I understand Mrs T has had a full refund as part of a separate complaint, so I dont intend to comment any further. I just thought it might be helpful 
to add some clarity to how these things work.
Overall, while Im not upholding her complaint, I hope that I have provided an answer that is 
helpful. Unfortunately, its not in my remit to tell a business whether they can call their 
customers, I cant make them change their general practices. But I wish Mrs T well in what 
she is doing to raise awareness with other bodies and her community.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman