DRN-3842967
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) handled their 
application to port their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T held a mortgage with Barclays which they were tied into. In March 2021,
through a broker, they submitted an online application to port their mortgage product to
purchase a new home.
Barclays requested further information and there were some other delays, so Mr and Mrs T
missed their exchange date. But the application was eventually accepted in May 2021 and a
mortgage offer was produced with an expiry date of September 2021. Mr and Mrs T set a
new exchange date for August 2021, but their buyers pulled out. The property they were
purchasing was a new build, so they were worried they would lose it if they didnt act quickly.
In the circumstances, Mr and Mrs T decided they would need to take a bridging loan, so they
could temporarily borrow the money required to purchase the new property without delay.
They intended to find a buyer for their old home as soon as possible, so they could port their
Barclays mortgage product to the new property and repay the bridging loan.
Mr and Mrs Ts broker informed Barclays of the situation and completed an application to
extend the date of the mortgage offer theyd received. This was accepted and the mortgage
offer was given a new expiry date of February 2022.
In January 2022, Mr and Mrs T found new buyers for their old home and approached
Barclays to go ahead with porting their mortgage. But, as they had spent some of their
savings in the meantime, they asked to increase the mortgage amount. Their broker was
asked to submit a new application which they did. But something went wrong, and Barclays
asked the broker to re-key the application.
There was an ongoing exchange between Barclays and Mr and Mrs Ts broker  Barclays
wanted more information about Mr and Mrs Ts income. And Mr and Mrs Ts broker says
they were eventually told the mortgage application would not be successful in March 2022,
so they applied for a new mortgage with another provider which was accepted. Barclays
continued to contact Mr and Mrs Ts broker about requiring further information and
eventually closed the application in April 2022.
Mr and Mrs Ts broker is representing them in this complaint. They say Barclays delayed
Mr and Mrs T from repaying their bridging loan because they gave incorrect information
about what applications needed to be completed. They say the underwriters then took over a
month to assess the application and they were eventually told the lending criteria had
changed and Mr and Mrs T no longer qualified due to issues with Mrs Ts foster income. 
Mr and Mrs T say Barclays are responsible for the delays, so they want to be compensated
for the additional interest they spent on the bridging loan during this time.
Barclays issued a final response letter on Mr and Mrs Ts complaint in May 2022. Its not
clear what Barclays said in response to the complaint as it appears to have been addressed
over the phone and the letter doesnt provide the contents of that discussion. But Barclays
have told this service it doesnt think it is responsible for the delays Mr and Mrs T
experienced. It said there was a delay at underwriter stage as a credit file search had not
been attached, but that this didnt add to the overall delays. Barclays says it chased Mr and
Mrs Ts broker for more information a number of times in March and April 2022 but closed
the application when it didnt receive a response.
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy and referred their complaint to this service. An investigator
looked into their concerns, but they didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. As
Mr and Mrs T disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 7 November 2022 and I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. 
Below is an extract of what I said:
Mr and Mrs Ts broker first submitted an online application to port their mortgage with
Barclays on 10 March 2021. Barclays reviewed the application and questioned Mrs Ts
income  it said it couldnt verify the amount she claimed to earn because her tax
calculations reported a much lower amount.
Mr and Mrs Ts broker explained that it wouldnt be possible to verify the income in the way
Barclays wanted them to as the Department for Work and Pensions does not offer annual
statements  it only confirms payments when something changes and Mrs Ts arrangement
wasnt due to be reviewed again until 2025. But the broker said Mr and Mrs T both bank with
Barclays and so they thought Barclays could easily verify the income she was receiving on
her premier account.
 
I think its unlikely the tax information Barclays was using would have been reliable as foster
carers receive tax allowances. And looking at Mrs Ts circumstances, based on the age and
number of children she fostered, a significant portion of her income would likely have been
tax free. Barclays seems to have accepted Mrs Ts income at some point, but there was a
period of confusion around the foster income prior to that.
There are then multiple records where Barclays had system trouble rekeying information
including the additional rental income Mr and Mrs T received as well as changing the term of
the mortgage. Barclays and the broker went back and forth over this problem  the broker
confirming they were unable to key it themselves on the system and Barclays asking them to
do it again. Theres also records of the broker confirming theyd already submitted evidence
they were still being asked for. It seems they were using a portal but were asked to submit it
differently. This went on for over a month.
The broker reminded Barclays of the urgency of the application and explained that they were
about to miss their deadline to exchange  which they ultimately did. Barclays records say
that the exchange deadline was missed due to IT issues on our side, so it seems to accept
that it did play a part in the delays caused. After further chasing, a mortgage offer was
eventually sent on 4 May 2021. But as Ive said above, the buyers decided to pull out  I
cant be certain if this was because of the delays or not, but I think the delays more likely
than not caused significant concern to Mr and Mrs T.
Mr and Mrs Ts broker then informed Barclays they were considering taking a bridging loan
out to buy their new property and that they intended on picking up Barclays mortgage offer
when they found new buyers. Mr and Mrs Ts broker was initially told to complete a new
application, but after confirming the property was new build, they were told to complete a
mortgage extension offer which they did on 9 August 2021.In January 2022, when they attempted to proceed with the extended mortgage offer, Mr and
Mrs Ts broker was told this information was incorrect and the offer they held had now
expired. So, the broker had to key a new application.
Mr and Mrs T also wanted to increase their lending, so I think their broker would have
needed to key a new application regardless. But I note the previous mortgage offer said they
could borrow a lot more than they needed to on either occasion, so they presumably
wouldnt have expected this to be a problem. But after submitting a new application there
was a prolonged back and forth with Barclays over similar issues in relation to income that
were encountered during the first application to port and further technical issues.
Barclays notes also suggest there was a delay because credit file checks hadnt been
uploaded to the application. Barclays has said this didnt cause a delay, but I think it did. Ive
seen copies of emails that show the broker was receiving emails both requesting information
that had already been submitted and emails confirming the application was in the process of
being considered by an underwriter. It was quite confusing trying to establish what stage the
application was at and I think its clear different representatives of Barclays were not aware
what each other were saying and doing.
Barclays then continued to chase information from Mr and Mrs Ts broker, when the broker
had already been informed, Mr and Mrs T were not eligible for a new mortgage. So, there
are a few instances of Barclays either asking the broker to key an application incorrectly,
asking for information that had already been provided or causing other delays in processing
Mr and Mrs Ts applications both in 2021 and 2022.
While I think the stress caused to Mr and Mrs T will be mitigated somewhat by the broker
acting on their behalf. I still think the unnecessary delays will have had an impact on them
and I think Barclays should compensate them for this. I think Barclays should pay Mr and
Mrs T £200 for the stress and inconvenience caused in 2021 and a further £200 for the
stress and inconvenience caused in 2022.
As Ive said above, Barclays had issued Mr and Mrs T with a new mortgage offer in
May 2021 and they were due to exchange in August 2021. But as a result of their buyers
pulling out, Mr and Mrs T had to make a decision whether to lose the new home they wished
to purchase or whether to take a bridging loan so that they could purchase their new home in
the interim and sell their existing home at a later date.
On 22 July 2021, Mr and Mrs Ts broker sent an email to a Barclays support email address
which said:
The above clients have a mortgage offer. They have been waiting to complete and have
had to take bridging finance to avoid losing the new property they are buying
Once their buyers can complete they will take up the mortgage offer. The mortgage is a
porting application which was done to avoid paying penalties- what would happen in this
situation and is there an option to avoid paying this or are there other alternatives?...
I have seen an internal email of Barclays where the query was forwarded on, and the
Barclays representative confirmed Mr and Mrs T had an offer but said that their broker was
asking about Barclays policy in regards to adding a bridging loan. The Barclays
representative who received the forwarded query then responded directly to the broker the
next day and said:
The customers have 90 days from redemption to complete the ported rate. If the offer
expires then it would need to be rekeyed.So, Mr and Mrs Ts broker made Barclays aware of their intention to take a bridging loan to
purchase their new property. They also made it clear Mr and Mrs T still intended to port their
existing Barclays mortgage further down the line. I think the email made it clear Mr and
Mrs T would already own their new property by the time they wanted to port their mortgage
and that the broker wanted to be made aware if, in doing so, there would be any impact on
the mortgage offer.
Barclays has confirmed to this service that its not possible to port a mortgage to a property if
the customer already owns it. So, I think Barclays should have told Mr and Mrs Ts broker
this on 23 July 2021, when it replied to the email setting out their intention.
 
So, I need to think about what Mr and Mrs T would have done if they were given the correct
information about being unable to port to a property they already owned. They would have
had to decide whether to go ahead with the bridging loan or not. Ive thought about this
carefully and given they went ahead with the bridging loan, I think its more likely than not
they still would have taken this action. But I think the other actions they took after this would
have been different.
If Mr and Mrs Ts broker had been given the correct information, they would have been
aware that Mr and Mrs T would have had to pay an early repayment charge and other
associated fees regardless of whether they went ahead with Barclays or not. I also think,
based on my findings in the section above, if it werent for trying to avoid those fees, Mr and
Mrs Ts broker would more likely than not have had enough cause for concern to have
considered applying for a mortgage elsewhere prior to January 2022.
So, if Mr and Mrs T knew Barclays would be unable to port their mortgage, and given the
problems they had already experienced, I think this could have prompted them to approach
another lender for a mortgage offer. And that that mortgage offer could have already been in
place ready for when they found new buyers. This would mean Mr and Mrs T could have
redeemed the bridging loan sooner than they did. And based on everything Ive seen, I think
Barclays is responsible for the financial loss they incurred as result.
I now have to decide what the delay would have been. The bridging loan completed 
13 August 2021, but Mr and Mrs T didnt find a new buyer until 28 January 2022. So, Mr and
Mrs T are responsible for the interest on the bridging loan during this period. Due to the
delays and misunderstanding caused by Barclays, Mr and Mrs Ts broker didnt approach a
new lender until March 2022 and an offer was issued on 17 March 2022. The funds were
then released on 5 April 2022 and Mr and Mrs T repaid the bridging loan the next day on
6 April 2022.
So, it took Mr and Mrs T 20 days to repay the bridging loan from the date they had a
mortgage offer with a new lender to the date they redeemed the bridging loan. I think they
could have had this offer in place prior to finding a new buyer on 28 January 2022. So, the
time period between the third-party lender issuing an offer and the funds being released is
the period Mr and Mrs T would have had to pay interest in addition to the interest between
13 August 2021 and 28 January 2022. But I think Barclays should refund Mr and Mrs T for
the financial loss they incurred in interest on the bridging loan from 18 February 2022 up to
the date the bridging loan was eventually repaid on 6 April 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Barclays requested copies of some the evidence Mr and Mrs Ts representative provided, 
but otherwise hasnt responded to the outcome of my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs Ts 
representative responded and disagreed with the proposed dates that should be used in 
Barclays calculations for redress. 
Mr and Mrs Ts representative said it took Mr and Mrs T seven days to repay the bridging the 
loan and that if they already had an offer in place, the bridging loan could have been fully 
repaid by 28 January 2021. Theyve provided a copy of the statement of account issued by 
Mr and Mrs Ts solicitors which shows the total bridging loan to be redeemed was 
£705,140.15. Their property sold for £505,000, so after fees were deducted a sum of 
£502,336.60 was paid off of the bridging loan on 28 January 2022. This left an outstanding 
balance of £201,562.17.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs Ts representative has said, but I dont agree 
that it only took seven days for the remainder of the bridging loan to be paid off following the 
mortgage offer from the third-party lender. The redemption statement the representative has 
provided concerns when the proceeds of the sale of Mr and Mrs Ts property that was 
applied to the bridging loan  this date isnt in question as Barclays had no impact on that.
What Im looking at is how long it would have taken Mr and Mrs T to pay off the remainder of 
the bridging loan if they already had a mortgage offer in place prior to the sale. And I found 
that the mortgage offer was made on 17 March 2022, but the remainder of the bridging loan 
wasnt paid off until 6 April 2022. That is 20 days from the date of having a mortgage offer in 
place to being able to pay off the remaining sum. So, if that offer had already been in place 
when Mr and Mrs T sold their property, I estimate it would have taken up to around 
17 February 2022 for the bridging loan to be fully redeemed and I think this is the fairest way 
to calculate the financial loss to Mr and Mrs T
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, I think Barclays should compensate Mr and Mrs T 
as set out below.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
A. Calculate the interest charged on the bridging loan between 18 February 2022 and 
6 April 2022.
B. Apply simple interest at 8% to the final figure calculated in point A.
C. Pay £200 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused during the 
application process in 2021.
D. Pay £200 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused during the 
application process in 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and Barclays Bank 
UK PLC should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman