DRN-2300052
The complaint
Mr S says Attanta Limited (AL) gave him unsuitable advice in 2016/2017 to switch his 
Personal Pension (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and to use a 
Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) service.
What happened
ALs recommendation to Mr S was made in December 2016 and then revised in January 
2017. Both recommended the switch. The latter revised the DFM firm recommended by AL 
in the former. Mr S then followed the switch recommendation and used the DFM firm 
recommended in January 2017. Overall, his position  summarised in the submissions made 
by his representative to this service  is that there was no good reason for recommending 
the switch; that his objective did not include the use of a DFM service; that the switch 
mismatched his risk profile and inexperience in investments; that the associated fees were 
also unsuitable; and that the switch involved a lack of diversification.
AL disputes the complaint. In the main, its position is that Mr S sought retirement planning 
advice, only, so its service was limited to that; that he had a balanced risk profile; that the 
costs associated with the SIPP were higher than those of the PP but they were disclosed to 
and, because he considered the benefits justified the switch (and charges), agreed by Mr S; 
that the DFM service was not unsuitable for his risk profile, the DFM firm was highly 
regarded at the time, its portfolio for the SIPP was not dissimilar to the previous investments 
in his PP and its structure was comparable to that of the previous PP provider; that Mr S 
invested around £30,000 in the SIPP and depleted it by withdrawing a total of around 
£21,000 without taking advice; that any loss in the matter is the responsibility of the DFM 
firm, not AL; and that the DFM firm is in Special Administration so Mr S claim should be 
submitted to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in this respect.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She concluded that it should be upheld 
because ALs recommendation to Mr S was unsuitable. 
Overall, she could not find a good reason for the switch recommendation and could not find 
a reason to justify the use of the DFM service. With regards to the former, she found that the 
PPs investments already reflected a balanced risk profile, that the PP already gave Mr S 
access to a range of funds (and if he wanted wider access that could have been sought 
through another PP product with the same or another provider), that a PP also allowed for 
regular contributions and direct investor access, that these were the prospects used as 
reasons for the switch recommendation but they did not offer Mr S something he did not 
already have (at a lower cost) or could not have achieved in another way (at a lower cost).
The investigator also considered that there is no evidence to show Mr S needed a DFM 
service, especially as his previous PP had been managed by the provider and there is 
nothing to suggest he wanted a further management service beyond that. With regards to 
ALs FSCS point, the investigator explained that our remit is to determine the complaint 
about unsuitable investment advice, AL provided Mr S with the recommendations to switch 
to the SIPP and to use the DFM firm so it is responsible for its recommendations and we can 
address the complaint in this context. AL asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The FSCS Proceedings
AL refers to ongoing proceedings within the FSCS which have been set up to cater for 
claimants against the DFM firm. AL says Mr S complaint is misguided, that it should not be 
made against it because any loss incurred in the SIPP is remote to it and would have 
resulted directly from the DFM firms management. It says the complaint should be against 
the DFM firm, so Mr Ss claim should be submitted into the relevant FSCS proceedings.
The present complaint is about AL, only. Neither the investigator nor I have considered a 
complaint about the DFM firm. The investigators findings were unrelated to that firms 
responsibility and my findings below are the same. As the investigator explained, it was ALs 
recommendations that directly led Mr S into the switch, into the SIPP and into using the 
specific DFM firm. His complaint is that those recommendations were unsuitable. It is that 
complaint I address. As set out below, there is a regulatory basis to hold a firm responsible 
for financial loss arising from unsuitable investment advice including, as is relevant to the 
present complaint, unsuitable pension switch advice. 
Overall, I do not consider Mr S complaint to be misguided in terms of being submitted to this 
service and I do not consider that, in this context, he is required to first exhaust the FSCS 
proceedings AL has referred to.
Regulatory Context
I have considered the following:
The regulators Principles for Businesses, within which Principle 2 requires a firm to 
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence; Principle 3 requires a firm to 
take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems; and Principle 6 requires a firm to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The regulators  Conduct of Business  (COBS) rules, within which COBS 2.1.1R 
requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its clients and in relation to designated investment business carried on for 
a retail client; and within which COBS 9.2.1R sets out a firms obligation to assess 
the suitability of investments recommended to its clients. 
The message from the above  in the context of a pension switch recommendation  is that 
the pension switch must be in the clients best interests in order to make the 
recommendation suitable. The switch must be worth the movement away from the previous 
pension arrangement and the new product should have the prospects of being better than 
the previous pension arrangement. If this was not the case, there would arguably be no point 
in switching and no justification in incurring the costs associated with switching. In 2009 the regulator published a checklist for pension switching which is worthy of note. It 
highlighted four key issues to consider  Charges (has the consumer been switched to a 
pension that is more expensive than their existing one(s) without good reason?); Existing 
benefits (has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason?); Risk (has the 
consumer switched into a pension that mismatches their risk profile and personal 
circumstances?); Ongoing fund management (has the consumer switched into a pension 
with such management without reasoning?).
AL appears to have made arguments which seek to distance itself from the DFM firms 
actions. It is and remains a fact that it recommended the DFM firm to Mr S. The regulator 
issued a pensions related industry alert to firms in 2014 (following an earlier alert in 2013) 
which I consider relevant to this aspect. It included the following:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable. [my emphasis]
The effect of the above, when applied to the present complaint, is that AL is responsible for 
the switch and SIPP it recommended and for the underlying use of the SIPP. I appreciate 
that it did not recommend underlying investments for the SIPP. Instead it recommended the 
use of the DFM firms portfolio/service. Nevertheless, the point is that ALs recommendation 
extended to how the SIPP should be used and, based on the regulators view quoted above, 
AL held (and holds) responsibility for suitability that extends to the same  that is, 
responsibility that extends to the suitability of the DFM service.
Did AL meet its regulatory obligations in assessing suitability of the pension switch it 
recommended to Mr S?
The sum effect of the aforementioned is that AL could not have conducted itself with due skill 
care and diligence, it could not have carefully and reasonably organised and controlled its 
advisory service to Mr S and it could not have upheld Mr S best interests if it did not 
discharge its advisory service to Mr S in the manner set out above (including the effects of 
the regulators alert(s) and guidance publication(s)).
AL concedes that the SIPPs investments and structure were not dissimilar to those of the 
previous PP. The investigator found that the investments in the PP had a balanced risk 
profile that was comparable to the basis for ALs recommendation of the SIPP and DFM. I 
agree that the profile of the PPs managed portfolio can be viewed as broadly comparable 
with the profile of the DFMs balanced portfolio, which was recommended for the SIPP. 
However, with perhaps a stricter analysis, there also appears to be potential for an argument 
that the latter could have been riskier than the former. In particular, the DFMs portfolio had 
more exposure to property than the PPs  property being an area of investments that can 
be considered as having higher risks. I appreciate that a counter view could highlight that the 
DFMs portfolio also appears to have held more cash than the PPs  cash being an asset 
that could be considered as having low or no risk. 
In either case, if the DFMs portfolio is viewed as having a higher than balanced risk profile it 
was unsuitable for Mr S balanced risk profile; and if it is viewed as having a balanced risk 
profile then it was broadly the same, in that respect, as the PP and the question arises as to 
why Mr S was advised to switch from the PPs managed funds to the SIPP and DFM 
portfolio. The key areas to consider are whether (or not) there were added benefits, justifying the switch, in terms of the use of a DFM service, and/or in terms of facilities in the SIPP, 
and/or in terms of costs. As I address below, there is no evidence of added benefits in any of 
these aspects.
I have not seen evidence that the use of a DFM service was an objective Mr S expressly 
sought. I also have not seen evidence that it was something his pension  mindful of its size 
 needed and lacked. As the investigator noted, his previous PP was invested into managed 
funds (growth funds), and there is no evidence to justify a need for additional management  
beyond that  at the time of advice.
Any value, to Mr S, in the facilities within the SIPP was also mainly dependent on his 
objective and what he sought. ALs suitability letters to him state that he wanted growth, 
wanted the ability to start pension contributions, wanted direct online access to his pension, 
wanted a well-diversified pension portfolio and wanted  a good level of fund 
choices/strategies Actively Managed Investments.  
As stated above, the PP was invested in actively managed growth funds, so Mr S growth 
and active management objectives were already being met. A copy of a November 2016 
portfolio review document for the PP has been shared with us. It shows that the PP at the 
time had a majority (around 72%) equity content, distinct from other investments in Gilts, 
fixed interest securities, property and alternatives. The portfolio could have been viewed, in 
terms of asset type, as heavily weighted in equity but there is evidence of diversification in 
terms of investment sectors  with, overall, a mean average of 10% invested in each of the 
mainstream sectors listed in the document. 
Even if AL considered that the asset types in Mr S pension needed to be more diversified 
that could have been done within the PP. The same point applies to the ideas about starting 
pension contributions, arranging direct access to the pension and exploring fund 
choices/options. I have not seen evidence that these were unachievable within the PP. 
Another November 2016 document  a summary of the PP  shows a pre-existing facility for 
contributions. Evidence about the PP providers service suggests direct online access was 
available. There is evidence that the PP gave access to seven model funds and, mindful of 
the size of his pension, I have not seen evidence that they were insufficient for Mr S needs.
With regards to added benefits arising from costs, the opposite was the case in ALs 
recommendations to Mr S. Overall, the fees/charges associated with the SIPP were higher 
than those for the PP. AL says they were agreed by Mr S because he saw value in the 
switch. As illustrated above, there was no such value in the switch. Furthermore, as the 
investigator explained, Mr S awareness of the charges did not automatically make them 
suitable. It remained ALs duty to assess suitability in this respect too. 
The conclusion that follows from the above is that, at best, ALs switch recommendation 
replicated fundamentals that were comparable to Mr S previous PP arrangement, but at a 
higher overall and ongoing cost, in a new SIPP wrapper and with an unrequired DFM 
service. Overall, the recommendation was unsuitable. There was no real prospect, within it, 
of anything better than what Mr S already had in the PP and, despite that, he was arguably 
and immediately put into a loss incurring position due to the higher charges. Had AL applied, 
or properly applied, the regulators 2009 checklist in its advice to Mr S it would have realised 
that a switch (and DFM service) was unsuitable and it would not have recommended it.
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr S complaint.
Putting things right Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr S as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had been 
given suitable advice. On balance, I consider that Mr S would have behaved differently. It is 
not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable given his profile at the time of advice.
What must AL do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, AL must:
 
Compare the performance of Mr S SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid to Mr S 
in compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
AL is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, 
it must tell Mr S the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, in order for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mr S pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into his 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, pay it directly to 
him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should 
be calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected 
retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If 
he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr S in a clear and simple format.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Intelligent 
Money 
SIPPstill 
exists   FTSE UK
Private Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index (prior 
to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market 
Income Total 
Return Index)date of 
switch date of 
settlementnot applicableactual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s) of it) is illiquid the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr S agrees to AL taking 
ownership of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)), if it wishes to. If that is not possible then 
AL may request an undertaking (produced at ALs costs) from Mr S that he repays to AL any 
amount he may receive from the investment (or its illiquid part(s)) in future. 
Mr S is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with AL to provide it, upon 
request, with all information and documentation that is available to him and that is relevant to 
the calculation of redress.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if AL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr S appears to have had a balanced investor profile  based on the balance of 
evidence addressed above  so he would have been prepared to take some risk in 
order to achieve a higher return.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It is a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S profile is broadly reflected in this benchmark and that 
compensation based upon it would reasonably reflect the sort of return he 
could have obtained, but for the unsuitable advice he received, from suitable 
investments.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr S complaint. I order Attanta Limited to 
compensate him as set out above and to provide him with the calculation of compensation in 
a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman