DRN-4107444
The complaint
Mr R complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc did not treat him fairly in relation to a 
complaint he made about heating he bought, financed using a fixed sum loan.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr R purchased some new radiators for his home from a merchant I shall 
refer to as F, financed using a fixed sum loan with Mitsubishi. He said he believed these 
were night storage heaters. He said the salesman had come to his home to establish how 
many were needed, looked at his energy plan, which was a tariff offering cheaper rates for 
off-peak hours and more expensive rates during peak hours, and was told this was perfect 
for the product. Mr R said he was happy with the outcome at the time because he works 
away from home. He said he felt he would be ensuring his family would be warm. 
Mr R said he recently contacted his energy supplier about the energy price he was paying. 
The supplier ran an energy analysis to establish where the energy usage was going and 
during this process determined that the radiators were not storage heaters as Mr R said he 
was led to believe. He said the goods he received were not what he paid for, and he was 
mis-sold. Mr R raised a claim with Mitsubishi under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
After speaking with F, in its final response Mitsubishi did not uphold Mr R's complaint. Mr R 
remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator concluded that 
the evidence from F didn't appear to contain any untrue statements of fact. And that 
Mitsubishi hadn't treated Mr R unfairly when it dealt with Mr R's complaint. 
Mr R didn't agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said he was told false 
information, including that his energy tariff was appropriate. He said the brochures contain 
false information referring to the goods being storage heaters not radiators. He said the 
products supplied heat but didn't store heat.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr R but having done so I won't be asking 
Mitsubishi to do anything further.
In deciding what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I'm required to 
consider relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is 
relevant here. It protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says in certain 
circumstances, the finance provider is legally answerable for any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by the supplier. To be able to uphold Mr R's complaint about Mitsubishi, I 
must be satisfied there's been a breach of contract or misrepresentation and that 
Mitsubishi's response to Mr R's claim under Section 75 wasn't fair or reasonable. But I'm not 
determining the outcome of Mr R's claim under Section 75 as that is for a court to decide.
Mr R believes this to be a claim based on misrepresentation, in that the goods arent as 
described. In this instance misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that induced 
Mr R to enter the contract.
Was there a false statement of fact?
Mr R has said when he bought the heaters he believed they were night storage heaters 
which he had previously had. He said he was told by F's salesman that his energy plan was 
perfect for the product he was buying, that his energy tariff was appropriate. He said it was 
only when he contacted his energy company about the price he was paying that he realised 
the radiators were not the type he believed they were. He said the brochures contain false 
information referring to the goods being storage heaters not radiators. He said the products 
supplied heat but didn't store heat.
Mitsubishi told this service it wasn't present at the point of sale and wasn't an expert in 
heating systems, so it spoke to F, which provided this response:
its heaters are electric and also have a storage capacity by way of its internal core, 
so are both storage heater and electric radiator. 
the way it's heaters work is made clear on its website, brochure and during in-house 
presentation to avoid any misrepresentation. The brochures and pamphlets he was 
provided with shows he was given the information. 
it makes clear in the sales process that its heaters work differently to the old night 
storage heaters as they have a more modern technology and material. Differing to 
the old night storage heaters, F's storage heaters also use daytime electricity to top 
up to ensure total comfort and control for the customer.
I've been provided with a photo of the brochures. I can see it says:
guarantee certificate - 10-year manufacturer guarantee on F storage radiators
control manual troubleshooting and frequently asked questions
eight reasons to choose F against other German branded storage heaters
Mr R says said these leaflets advertise the product as a storage radiator  not an electric 
panel radiator. He said theres a difference between retaining heat and storing heat. He 
asked if a company can sell a product such as a storage radiator yet the element within the 
radiator retains heat for a short period; to be precise four minutes. He said if he was told this 
he would not have bought the product. He said F stated it is not ideal having his tariff but 
during the presale he said he was encouraged that his tariff was ideal.
Mr R's version of events relies mainly on what he tells us he was told prior to the contract 
along with some sales brochures. Mr R's main point is that F's salesman told him the 
radiators were night storage and were appropriate for his energy tariff. He suggests he 
therefore thought he was buying night storage heaters. He indicates that but for these 
misrepresentations he wouldn't have entered the contract. Mr R and Mitsubishi disagree 
about what representations were made prior to the contract. There is no account from the 
salesman about their recollections from the sale. The written information on the brochure 
appears to have set out what Mr R has bought.
By their very nature such alleged verbal representations are hard to substantiate although 
that doesn't mean I have to entirely discount what Mr R has said or automatically prefer the written evidence. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some 
of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. When I do this I also look at the consistency of what Mr R has said and 
whether his behaviour fits with what he says about verbal misrepresentation.
Mr R signed the agreement in November 2019 and the radiators were installed in 
December/January 2020, but Mr R didnt bring his complaint to the business until December 
2022. That would cover three winter or cold periods. In his complaint to this service Mr R 
said he had night storage heaters prior to the installation of his new radiators, and it appears 
from what he said he knew what night storage heaters did/how they functioned. So it seems 
reasonable to assume he would recognise them as a replacement. Mr R hasnt told us how it 
is he didnt notice sooner if there was a difference between his previous heating and the new 
installed heating. So it does seem likely that had Mr R been expecting night storage heaters 
rather than the radiators as described above I think it likely, although I cant say with 
certainty, he would have noticed sooner that these new radiators operated differently to his 
previous night storage heaters.
Again if the radiators were not compatible with Mr Rs tariff it also seems likely he wouldve 
noticed sooner along with the operation of the radiators themselves. 
With respect to the brochures Mr R has sent images of I can see that F uses the term 
storage heater but that doesnt necessarily mean night storage heater. I find the 
descriptions on the brochures very vague. Ive also seen a copy of the invoice. Each new 
radiator is itemised and referred to only by wattage (e.g. 1900watts) and location (e.g. 
lounge). The new radiators are not described using any of the words: night, storage, heater 
or radiator. But after the new radiators I can see the following itemisation:
Qty 3 Conversion of existing Night Storage to 24-hour supply
Qty 3 Removal and discard of existing Night Storage heater
These two points combined suggest to me that the new radiators would not be night 
storage.
Mr R has said that he has since discovered that F was subject to some legal action 
concerning the storage radiators. This may or may not be the case, but this isnt evidence I 
can consider when trying to demonstrate what occurred in Mr Rs particular discussion with 
the salesman. My role is to look at the individual circumstances of this complaint without 
regard to what might have happened to other customers. 
Im not disputing or discounting Mr Rs version of events, but I dont think it likely that F made 
a false statement of fact.
Did the false statement induce Mr R into the contract?
Even if I were persuaded that F did make a false statement I would need to be satisfied that 
that statement induced Mr R into the contract. And I dont believe I would be. I havent seen 
any evidence suggesting that Mr R specifically wanted night storage heaters compatible 
with the tariff he was on. Again Im not discounting Mr Rs verbal testimony, but I also cannot 
discount the fact he didnt notice the difference in the radiators operation/usage for quite 
some time. Mr R hasnt said specifically what it was that F said that persuaded Mr R to enter 
the contract. I think had Mr R been induced into buying the radiators based on the specific 
features he said he wanted and was told (being night storage and compatible with his tariff) 
the incorrect radiators would likely have been something he wouldve noticed or ought 
reasonably to have noticed much earlier than he did. And I'm not persuaded in the circumstances that it was so important to him and the reason why he bought the heating.
I dont think it likely F made a false statement of fact, and I dont think Mitsubishi has acted 
unfairly in how it handled Mr Rs complaint. 
I understand Mr Rs strength of feeling in this matter and that this is a cause of frustration for 
him. He will be disappointed with my conclusions. Nothing in this decision prevents him from 
pursuing the complaint through the courts. Although of course this would come with other 
costs and risks.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman