DRN-2290322
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Novaloans Ltd, trading as cash4unow, lent to her irresponsibly.
Mrs W also complains that Novaloans personnel caused her distress and inconvenience in 
relation to a data breach. 
What happened
 Mrs W applied for a loan for £350 and it was approved for her on 4 September 2018. Mrs W 
was due to repay it in four monthly instalments of just over £143 and the last scheduled
repayment was 31 December 2018.
Mrs W repaid once on 31 October 2018 but on the information we have now it appears that
Mrs W has not paid any more.
Mrs W has explained that on Friday 22 March 2019, A Novaloans representative, or
someone instructed by it, called Mrs Ws mobile phone to further chase her for repayment.
Mrs W was not present and was not able to answer her phone. Her husband answered it
and both Mr and Mrs W have given accounts of what happened during that call. Succinctly
Mrs W had not told her husband that she had a loan and/or that it was an outstanding loan
and so, the Novaloans representative had caused her embarrassment, upset and had
created tensions within her household by revealing too much about the situation and the
loan position to her husband.
Mrs W asked for a copy of the call soon afterwards but it was not provided. This service
asked for a copy of the call but Novaloans said that as it was over 12 months ago by the
time we were asking for it then it was not possible to send us a copy. Mrs W has a record
from her mobile service provider that the call took place and lasted for three and a half
minutes.
Mrs W raised a complaint about the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) breach
with Novaloans. She asked that the loan debt is written off to compensate her.
.
Novaloans wrote to Mrs W on 30 August 2019 with its final response (FRL) and did not
accept that there had been a data breach. It did offer a £50 reduction in her outstanding loan 
balance as a goodwill gesture. The FRL went on to say that she had to have replied by
13 September 2019 and that if she referred her complaint to the Ombudsman Service that
offer would be revoked.
When Mrs W referred her complaint here, it related to the data breach but she included in
her complaint form the issue of the loan having been lent irresponsibly. Mrs W has described
that she had other payday and high interest loans which she had been struggling to repay.
So, she does not think that Novaloans did the right checks before approving the loan. Mrs W 
has told us that a default has been added to Mrs Ws credit file and so she says that this had 
added to her stress.
Novaloans has not investigated that irresponsible lending part in detail but was content for
us to proceed with that part of the complaint as well.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 November 2020 with a reply date for both parties to 
send me evidence or any further points by 10 December 2020. 
My provisional findings are set out in the next section of this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Novaloans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Novaloans should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But this is unlikely with Mrs Ws situation
as she was approved for one loan only.
Novaloans was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably repay her loans  not
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that. 
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
My provisional findings on the irresponsible lending part of the complaintI have reviewed the application details completed by Mrs W in which she declared that she
worked full time and had been in that job for four years. Mrs W said that her net monthly
income was £2,600 and her outgoings were about £750 a month including mortgage, credit
card and other financial commitments.
For a first loan with Novaloans, I would not have expected it to do more. I appreciate that
Mrs W complains that it ought to have carried out additional checks, but on the declared
sums she gave to it I do not think that Novaloans would have felt that the repayments of
£143 each month were unaffordable. I would not have expected it to have carried out an
in-depth financial review at this stage in the lending relationship.
I am not planning to uphold Mrs Ws complaint about the irresponsible lending.
I do consider that Novaloans needs to approach Mrs Ws debt with understanding and that a
mutually agreed repayment plan could be arranged if Mrs W is still not able to repay the
outstanding sum.
Mrs W has referred to a default record which has been added to her credit file and so she
says that this had added to her stress. I am sorry to hear of this but I have not seen a record
of that default and I have no details of it.
And I note that Mrs W had not made any payments towards the loan after 31 October 2018.
And so, Mrs W appears to have been in arrears by March 2019. After the 22 March 2019
call, Mrs W seemed to be under the impression that this loan ought to be written off to
compensate her for the data breach. And I have seen emails between her and Novaloans
where she has refused to pay towards the loan as she had wanted the loan to be written off.
Our adjudicator advised against that course of action  as we usually do with complainants
who owe the respondent business money.
If it is correct that Mrs W has not paid anything towards the loan since October 2018 then a
default may have been reported to the credit agency justifiably. But as Ive no details I only
offer this as a possible explanation to lead Mrs W to understand why it may have occurred.
My provisional findings on the alleged data breach part of the complaint 
Mrs W alleges that Novaloans breached the legislation surrounding data protection and privacy by 
revealing to her husband that she had a loan and/or that she was behind on her repayments. 
Novaloans denies there was a breach of any data protection rules, and in its FRL makes several 
points to explain its position which are:
a caller will not disclose who is calling until the caller is certain he or she knows they are 
speaking with the customer;
if the caller is unable to confirm it is the customer its policy is to ask for a call back and a 
number is provided;
the caller will never disclose where he or she is calling from. 
Novaloans says its not been able to find the call but it is confident that no personal or sensitive 
information was divulged to any third party. So, from this it seems that Novaloans does not deny that 
the call took place, just its content. And in the absence of any recording of that call, then I must rely 
on what Mrs W has described.
Mrs W has a record that the call took place. She tried to raise it as a complaint on several occasions 
and I have been sent the email correspondence from 2019 which shows that this was difficult for 
Mrs W to achieve. Novaloans kept asking for verbal authority from the account holder or written 
authority and yet Mrs Ws calls and emails did not seem to lead to a commencement of the complaint 
process for some time. July 2019 was when the complaint started to be investigated and by August 
2019 Novaloans FRL said that it could not find a recording of the call. Yet Ive also seen that Mrs W 
had asked for a copy of that call several times before July 2019.Without the call I have read all that both Mr and Mrs W have sent to us about what Mr W learned 
about his wifes debt situation, and the impact on Mrs W.
This service cannot decide as to whether there was a breach of the General Data Protection 
Regulations (GDPR) as that is for the Information Commissioner to establish and would be the subject 
of a separate referral by Mrs W to that Commissioners office. But we can consider whether its fair 
and reasonable to tell Novaloans to pay compensation or take any other action to recognise the 
impact of whats happened on Mrs W. 
So, I have looked carefully at the explanations Novaloans has provided in its FRL. I think that as soon 
as the call from the Novaloans representative was answered by a male then he or she would have 
realised that this was not Mrs W, and ought to have ended the call. I am unclear as to how you can 
leave a call back request (and a telephone number) in a situation such as this where the male voice 
answering Mrs Ws telephone clearly was not Mrs W. And I have provisionally decided, that for Mr W 
to know details and become aware of Mrs Ws situation then a conversation must have taken place 
such that he gathered these details from the Novaloans representative. And I do understand that 
Mrs W would not have been expecting her husband to know about these things and she has 
described that it has caused arguments within the home, and stress.
So, I accept that Mrs W has experienced distress and inconvenience caused by the knowledge that 
I do think Novaloans likely gave to her family member leading to issues within that family, and I do 
plan to award Mrs W some compensation for it.
And I think that if Novaloans had heeded Mrs Ws request that she wanted to complain and wished for 
the recording to be found and kept earlier, then I think that would have saved rather a lot of time 
between March and 30 August 2019. And then when the FRL was issued Novaloans explanation was 
that the call could not be located and so has not been produced.
I appreciate that Novaloans made a goodwill offer to reduce an existing debt balance by £50,to 
resolve the complaint about the GDPR issue, but this had a time limit on it and referring the complaint 
to this service precipitated its revocation. This was a conditional goodwill offer where no cash to 
Mrs W was being offered but a reduction in loan balance. I am planning to ensure that the 
compensation goes directly to Mrs W, and does go towards Mrs W thinking that she can move on 
from this incident and be confident that it will not happen again.
What I am planning to direct Novaloans pays to Mrs W.
For the distress and inconvenience which I do think Mrs W experienced upon her husband finding out 
about the financial situation with Novaloans, I award her £150.
My findings for the final decision 
Novaloans has agreed to pay Mrs W the £150 compensation payment. So, it agrees with my 
provisional findings. 
Mrs W has responded to say 
I do have more evidence I am Awaiting 02 sending me phone records of the call that took 
place between my cash for you now and my husband they are also sending me proof of the 
amount of times they called harassing me as these calls was connected as they went to my 
answer phone.
We wrote to Mrs W to explain that the call record for the data breach call was not necessary 
as Novaloans had agreed to pay the £150 for it and so its agreement meant that part of her 
complaint had been resolved.  
The claims for harassment by Novaloans towards Mrs W were not part of this complaint 
and have not been investigated by Novaloans and so we are not able to address that part. Mrs W also said -  I was not asked by cash for you now to provide any proof of earnings or 
bank statement To prove I could afford the loan which I clearly couldnt as I was already in 
financial difficulty as per my Experian credit report at the time
And my response to Mrs W reply is this - as I have explained in my part of the provisional 
decision about the irresponsible lending, I would not have expected Novaloans to have done 
more than it did at the time Mrs W applied for the loan. I would not have expected it to have 
carried out an in-depth financial review at that stage in the lending relationship. My view on 
this remains the same and I do not uphold that part of Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W has not given us any more details about the issue she says surrounds a default, so 
I can only repeat the suggested explanation I gave in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I direct that Novaloans Ltd pays Mrs W compensation for distress and inconvenience in 
relation to the impact on her following the telephone call. This is to be paid directly to Mrs W 
within 28 days of Mrs W accepting this final decision if she chooses to accept it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold one part of Mrs Ws complaint and direct that Novaloans Ltd 
pays Mrs W compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman