DRN-4247078
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Tuto Money Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr W approached Tuto Money in May 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Tuto Money completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives. Tuto Money also carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be lowest medium. 
On 19 October 2016, Tuto Money advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest in the Vanguard Life Strategy Fund. The suitability report said 
the reasons for this recommendation were to access tax-free cash and use this to pay off 
debts, refurbish a buy-to-let home and for his childrens tuition. And for the ability for death 
benefits to be paid to his family as a lump sum.
Representatives on Mr Ws behalf complained in 2022 to Tuto Money about the suitability of 
the transfer advice. They said that giving up guaranteed benefits in retirement wasnt in Mr 
Ws best interests. And that there had been failings throughout the advice process.
Tuto Money didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said Mr W had been given the appropriate risk 
warnings and he wanted to clear his debts. It also said the complaint had been made out of 
time.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
required Tuto Money to pay compensation. Tuto Money had argued it was out of time as it 
was more than six years after the advice had been given. But the investigator explained to 
be out of time it also needed to have been more than three years since Mr W ought 
reasonably to have known he had cause for complaint. The investigator said he couldnt see 
anything to say Mr W ought to have complained earlier than he did.
In terms of merits the investigator said Tuto Money ought to have discussed Mr Ws 
circumstances in more detail  to explore whether he needed to pay the debt off then as he 
was making the payments. The investigator felt the advice had been unsuitable, giving up 
guaranteed benefits to pay for things that at the time were appealing but not essential.
Tuto Money didnt respond. And so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
jurisdiction
Tuto Money say the complaint was made out of time as the transfer took place in October 
2016 and the complaint wasnt made until November 2022. So it is more than six years after 
the event. However, our time rules are two pronged, I agree the complaint is out on six 
years. But the second part of our time rules is that the complaint also has to have been 
made more than three years after it should reasonably have been raised. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest Mr W ought to have been aware of his cause for complaint more than three years 
before he did complain.
The evidence Tuto Money has provided shows there was a review two years after the 
transfer which showed a small decrease in value compared to the original transfer value. 
However, there was no estimated pension figures given and there was still time for the funds 
to grow before retirement. So I dont think it would have, or ought to have, caused Mr W to 
be aware of his cause for complaint then. I dont think the three-year part of our time limits 
applies here  and so Im satisfied Mr W has brought his complaint in time.
merits of the complaint 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tuto Money's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tuto Money 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ws best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability Tuto Money carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr W was 55 at the time of the advice and according to the suitability report he was looking 
to retire at 65 but take tax-free cash immediately. The critical yield required to match Mr Ws 
benefits at age 60 (this was the scheme retirement age) was 14% per year if he took a full 
pension. These figures are based on a lower transfer value than what was actually 
transferred as Mr Ws initial transfer quote expired. And the value that was actually 
transferred was approximately £30,000 larger than the original quote, at just under 
£200,000. Whilst, this would have an effect on the critical yield calculation, I dont think the 
difference is such that the initial yields arent representative of the broad amount of risk 
taken onboard when transferring.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was 3% per year for four years to 
retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr W giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield was 
14% a year, I think Mr W was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ws best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Tuto 
Money has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer 
is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Mr W wanted to take his tax free cash early to repay loans and debts, refurbish a buy to let 
property and put funds towards his childs education. But Im not satisfied these needs were 
such that he should have been advised to have put his only source of guaranteed benefits in 
retirement at risk. 
I say this because the debts/loans Mr W had, came to approximately £15,000 which sounds 
a lot but there was no indication he couldnt meet these repayments. And Mr W was still 
working, in good health and he had paid off a substantial amount of his mortgage on his 
residence. It was recorded Mr W had explored other forms of raising finance but wished to 
clear his debts and didnt want to take out further loans. But no further exploration or 
discussion of this matter is recorded  other than this line. 
Its understandable that Mr W wouldve wanted to clear his debts and put money towards his 
childs schooling, but I dont think this shouldve been done at the expense of his likely main 
source of income in retirement. It was recorded Mr W had other pensions which he could use in retirement but no attempt was made to understand more about them and get a 
valuation. Mr W had said hed need to trace them, so didnt know anything about them. Had 
this information been sought prior to the recommendation being made, it may have been that 
one of these plans was better used to meet Mr Ws cash needs. And he couldve retained his 
guaranteed benefits in the scheme in question which comprised of 11 years service. This 
was a very important part of Mr Ws retirement planning but it seems no effort was made to 
find out more about these additional pensions.
The evidence does suggest Mr Ws finances were stretched and an influx in cash wouldve 
been very attractive. But Tuto Money in advising Mr W to transfer, risked Mr Ws only known 
guaranteed source of income in retirement (bar his state pension). Mr W planned to use his 
buy to let property for income in retirement  but the income here isnt guaranteed like Mr 
Ws DB pension. And represents a high-risk retirement strategy that doesnt fit with Mr Ws 
risk profile. And nowhere was it considered whether Mr W could retain his benefits and find  
other ways of funding the work on his buy to let property. Nor was it recorded whether Mr W 
could start renting the property out without these refurbishments. Tuto Money shouldve 
done more to explore Mr Ws circumstances and finances before recommending transferring 
his DB pension.
Furthermore, Mr W said he didnt plan to retire until 65, he had ten years left of employment 
and so he had time to construct his plans and finances for retirement over those years. 
Transferring his benefits at this point was irreversible and it was used to repay debt that he 
was meeting at the time. And to refurbish a property, that wouldnt be his only form of non-
pension income for some ten years. I note his main residency had a value of £300,000 with 
only £48,000 remaining on the mortgage. But this wasnt explored and neither were his other 
pensions that may have been more suitable to provide the cash required for his immediate 
plans.
I dont think any of the reasons given for taking his tax-free cash made transferring in Mr Ws 
best interests. Tuto Money shouldve done much more to challenge Mr Ws requirements 
and set out the downsides of this course of action. Tuto Moneys forecasting of income in 
retirement showed that retaining his DB pension would provide him with a surplus of income 
alongside his state pension and expected rental income. However, the rental income wasnt 
guaranteed and there are many variables between the time of advice and his retirement that 
could come into play. Mr Ws DB pension income was guaranteed and I think this should 
have formed the cornerstone of his retirement planning. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to Mr W, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Tuto Money explored to what 
extent Mr W was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr W 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his dependents if Mr W predeceased them. I dont think Tuto Money made the value of 
this benefit clear enough to Mr W. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, Tuto Money should not have encouraged Mr W to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over security in retirement.
I wouldve also expected to see the adviser explore the possibility of Mr W taking out a
life insurance policy if he genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the immediate influx of cash that could be gained through a personal 
pension would have sounded attractive to Mr W. But Tuto Money wasnt there to just 
transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr W shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and the potential for higher death benefits 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. Furthermore, there 
were other potential avenues in which Mr W may have been able to get an influx of cash 
without risking what appears to be his main source of guaranteed income in retirement. But 
these avenues were not explored by Tuto Money. So, I think Tuto Money shouldve advised 
Mr W to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Tuto Moneys advice. I say this because Mr W 
was an inexperienced investor with a lowest medium attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of Mr Ws retirement provision. So, if Tuto Money had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Tuto Money should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Tuto Money must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age as per 
the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tuto Money should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts Tuto Moneys offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tuto Money 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr 
Ws would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ws likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Tuto Money Limited to 
pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Tuto Money Limited pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Tuto Money Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023. 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman