DRN-3742573
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the settlement figure applied by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK)
Limited (VWFS) following the early termination of his hire agreement.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr T entered into a hire agreement for a new car with VWFS. The
agreement was for 48 months, with monthly payments of £414.
Mr T said that his employer paid him a car allowance, and he used this to pay for the hire
agreement. In November 2020 he lost his job. He said he continued to make the payments
for a few months as he was hoping to find a new job.
He said he then asked VWFS if he could terminate the agreement early. He said he knew
there would be an early termination fee but was surprised when they told him it would be
more than £6858 plus VAT.
He said hed done less than 17,000 miles when he returned it. This was less than the 25,000
miles annual allowance in the agreement. He said that VWFS shouldve taken this into
account when they calculated the settlement figure.
Mr T said the account had been closed in August 2021 with a zero balance. He said he
never received a final balance letter from VWFS, until February 2022 and March 2022 when
he received letters from them saying he owed them £8,230.
VWFS said Mr T contacted them in May 2021 to tell them he had no income and needed to
return the car. They said he also asked to terminate the agreement and requested a
settlement figure.
They said they offered him 60 days breathing space to consider his financial position. They
provided him with the option to terminate the agreement early, along with the settlement
figure of £8,230.
Mr T was unhappy that VWFS were pursuing him for the full amount, so he brought his
complaint to our service for investigation.
Our investigator said that VWFS hadnt done anything wrong. He said the charge VWFS had
applied was in line with the agreement. He also said that the agreement didnt allow for a
refund if the full mileage allowance wasnt used.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. He said that his financial situation had been impacted
by the Covid 19 pandemic and VWFS had done nothing to help him. He also said that the
amount owed should be reduced by the increase in value from having a lower mileage, and
should be based on the amount VWFS received for the car at auction.
Our investigator was satisfied that VWFS had made Mr T aware of the costs of termination
and the impact it may have on his credit file.
Mr T disagreed  he felt that the extraordinary circumstances arose from the Covid 19
pandemic and this hadnt been taken into account.
Because Mr T didnt agree with the investigator, the matter was passed to me to make
a final decision. I sent Mr T and VWFS a provisional decision on 9 September 2022. In this 
decision I explained why I thought the complaint should not be upheld. Heres what I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about 
it.
Covid 19 pandemic
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the industry regulator, issued temporary guidance, 
that came into effect on 27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment 
difficulties as a result of Covid-19. This guidance said a firm providing motor finance 
agreements should grant a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines 
(acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interest to do so.
The FCA issued final guidance in November 2020. They also published Tailored Support 
Guidance  this guidance explained the support firms like VWFS should give to customers 
whose financial situation may be affected by the pandemic beyond March 2021.
Mr T didnt seek help from VWFS until May 2021. The November 2020 guidance explained 
how payment deferrals should be offered to customers affected by the pandemic. But this 
didnt apply in Mr Ts circumstances as all deferral requests had to be made by 31
March 2021.
I know that Mr T wasnt seeking a payment deferral, but Ive highlighted the purpose of the 
guidance to show what help the FCA expected firms to provide at that time.
The tailored support guidance did apply in Mr Ts circumstances. Thats because it applied to 
customers facing payment difficulties due to events arising from the Covid 19 pandemic who 
were not receiving payment deferrals. This included customers like Mr T who werent eligible 
for a payment deferral  for the reasons I set out above.
The guidance set out what the FCA expected firms to do. This included, treating customers 
fairly, with forbearance and due consideration, and not pressurising them into repaying a 
debt within an unreasonably short period of time. It also required firms to give customers 
time to consider their options and to seek debt advice if necessary.
Section 4 of the tailored support guidance covered reporting information to credit reference 
agencies. The guidance stated (paras 4.6 and 4.7) that firms should report the status of the 
account in the usual way, and firms should be clear about the implications on the credit file 
of any support or approach offered.
Section 5 of the guidance explains the tailored support the FCA expected firms to provide to 
customers who, like Mr T, still faced uncertainty about their employment and income 
prospects. The guidance explains the expectation that firms will work with customers to help 
them avoid missing payments, and to avoid escalating balances, or a build up of arrears.Firms were encouraged to put measures in place to avoid this happening. This includes 
suspending, reducing, waiving, or cancelling interest, fees, and charges.
The guidance also explained that firms should communicate clearly with customers, and in a 
timely manner, to help them understand their financial position in relation to that debt.
In relation to consumer hire agreements, like Mr Ts, the guidance explained the 
circumstances in which firms could take action to repossess goods or vehicles. This included 
where the customer asked to voluntary terminate the agreement and surrender the vehicle.
I need to consider whether or not VWFS treated Mr T fairly and reasonably, and in line with 
the FCA guidance when he asked to terminate the agreement early.
The settlement amount
In May 2021 Mr T told VWFS he could no longer afford the monthly payment as hed lost his 
job. VWFS replied, giving him 60 days breathing space so that he could consider his options. 
They also confirmed they wouldnt charge any fees or late payment interest during this time.
They also advised him that he could terminate the agreement early. They said this would 
mean he would be liable for a percentage of the future rentals, plus any arrears. They also 
explained that they could agree an affordable payment arrangement, and that the balance 
would show as outstanding on his credit report until cleared.
On 9 June 2021 a settlement amount of £8,084 was provided to Mr T. This increased to
£8,230 on 23 June 2021. The breathing space was still in place.
Mr T was unhappy with the amount, and complained that VWFS would not collect the car 
until he paid the settlement amount. VWFS replied to say they would proceed with the early 
termination and arrange collection of the car after he accepted the settlement figure theyd 
provided. They also said they could agree a payment plan if he couldnt afford to pay the 
amount in one sum.
Mr T said he never agreed the settlement amount. But hed made it clear to VWFS he 
couldnt afford to make the monthly payments. I think it was reasonable for them to go ahead 
and collect the car. If they hadnt done so, and Mr T hadnt made the payments, he wouldve 
ended up with a forced repossession, and that wouldve been more costly.
Im satisfied that VWFS have applied the early termination settlement amount in line with the 
terms of the agreement he signed and entered into in December 2019. The key information 
section at the top of the agreement highlighted that damages would be due if the agreement 
was terminated. VWFS confirmed the settlement amount was based on 65% of the 
remaining 29 monthly rentals on the agreement.
Mr T is not disputing the calculation. Hes unhappy that VWFS havent provided the 
additional help they said they would provide in light of the pandemic. Im satisfied theyve 
fairly applied the guidance put in place by the FCA. They allowed Mr T time to consider his 
options, and they didnt apply any extra charges or interest. There was no intention in the 
FCAs guidance to reduce or remove debt: the intention was to stop additional charges or 
interest applied for late or deferred payment increasing the debt. So its fair and reasonable 
for them to charge Mr T the full settlement amount.
Mr T also said that the settlement amount should be reduced because he did less than the 
agreed mileage, and the value achieved at auction by VWFS. I disagree. The hire 
agreement is a formal contract, and one which both parties entered into for a four year period. There was a contractual amount and that is what is owed. There was a contract term 
that explained charges that would apply if Mr T exceeded the mileage limit  but the term 
only covered excess mileage. There was no term providing a refund or reduction if the 
maximum isnt reached.
I see that Mr T asked about reducing the mileage limit in April 2021. VWFS provided him 
with a quote and explained the administration fee that would be charged. He declined as it 
wasnt as beneficial as he thought it might be. In the exchange VWFS explained why the 
monthly payment had not decreased to as much as hed expected. But Mr T chose not to go 
ahead as he didnt want to pay the administration fee.
The credit report
Mr T has complained that his credit report was showing the balance on the account as 
zero. Our investigator has told Mr T that he needs to raise this with VWFS. Im unable to 
look at this as VWFS may provide a response to Mr T that hes happy with.
Communication
Mr T asked to terminate the agreement in May 21, and the car was collected at end of June 
2021. But he said VWFS did not pursue him for the outstanding balance until February 2022. 
VWFS havent provided an explanation for this delay.
But it doesnt change the fact that the amount is still owed by Mr T. And if hes still not able 
to pay the amount in one sum, VWFS should consider his current financial situation and treat 
him with appropriate forbearance when considering an affordable payment plan to clear the 
arrears. I think this is fair and wont be asking them to do any more.
I agree with Mr T that these were unprecedented times. He found himself unexpectedly out 
of work due to the Covid 19 pandemic, and this was the reason he could no longer afford the 
monthly payments. But the agreement he entered into was a four year hire agreement, and 
as hes acknowledged, there is a penalty for leaving the agreement early. Ive explained 
above why the help provided by VWFS was in line with the guidance in place at the time.
This doesnt reduce the amount of the debt owed, so its reasonable for VWFS to ask Mr T to
pay that amount.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr T didnt accept my provisional 
decision. VWFS accepted it.
Mr T said he continued to make the monthly payment after he lost his job, until he could no 
longer afford it. He said he doesnt accept the settlement figure as the car had not been used 
due to the pandemic, so it was in good condition and had low mileage.
He said VWFS closed his account with a zero balance on 19 August 2021. He said VWFS 
have never explained why this was done. He said he doesnt owe VWFS any money and in 
the current financial situation, has no money to give them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having thought about everything carefully again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and which Ive set out 
above.
Mr T said VWFS closed his account with a zero balance, and this is shown on his credit 
report. He said this means he has nothing further to pay.
I said in my provisional decision I wouldnt consider this point as VWFS may give him a 
response hes satisfied with. I said that because this service only gets involved when there is 
a dispute. VWFS havent given their response on this point. If Mr T has raised this with them 
then I encourage them to do so promptly. If hes unhappy with their response then he can 
bring that complaint to this service.
For the reasons I stated in my provisional decision Im satisfied that the debt is still owed. 
The settlement amount was charged in line with the early termination terms of the 
agreement he entered into. I explained why the amount was a contractual value, and not 
related to the lower mileage of the car. So I think its fair and reasonable that VWFS have 
charged him this amount.
I know this has been a challenging period for Mr T. He unexpectedly lost a job that hed been 
in for ten years  a job that paid him a car allowance. He tried to maintain the payments after 
he lost the job. And the pandemic made it difficult to find a new job. But Im satisfied the 
amount is still payable. Mr T has said that he doesnt have the means to pay this amount at 
the moment. VWFS and Mr T need to work together to agree an affordable payment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman