DRN-3166014
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr M took out a loan with Loans 2 Go for £500. The loan was taken out 
over 18 months with an APR of 1,013.2% and his monthly repayments were £114.28 making 
the total repayable £2,057.04. Mr M fell into arrears with the loan repayments from a very 
early stage.
Mr M complained that Loans 2 Go hadnt properly checked he could afford the loan.
Loans 2 Go looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. Mr M referred his complaint to 
us. He was also unhappy about the high interest rate.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint. She thought Loans 2 Go shouldnt have offered 
the loan to Mr M as repaying the loan left him with very little disposable income. As Loans 2 
Go disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Loans 2 Go asked Mr M about his income and expenses. Mr M told it that his net monthly 
income was £2,050. It verified that using a standard industry tool, which looks to see 
whether the disclosed income is consistent with the turnover of the consumers bank 
accounts. The check came back showing it was £1,837.31. Mr M also said his expenses 
(including his other credit commitments) were £980 a month. 
 Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search. That showed Mr M had opened 8 new credit 
accounts in the last 12 months, including 2 loan accounts in September 2019 with balances 
of £125 and £54 respectively. In March 2019 hed taken out a loan of £5,315 on which he 
owed £3,775 and was repaying at a rate of £273 a month. He was also paying £204 in 
respect of a hire purchase agreement.
I think Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate but it didnt react appropriately to the 
information it received. I say that because it calculated that Mr Ms expenses were £1,517.93 
a month. It then added a buffer of 10% to his verified expenditure to account for any 
fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. That would have left him with just £53.41 
a month after making his new loan repayment to Loans 2 Go of £114.28. In addition his 
credit repayments exceeded 35% of his monthly income. I think there was a very 
foreseeable risk here that Mr M wouldnt have been able to meet his repayments over 18 
months without difficulty. It wouldnt have taken very much unexpected or seasonal expense 
to leave Mr M in the position of having to borrow to meet his loan repayments. I think Mr M 
would have needed a larger disposable income for the loan to be sustainable. 
So I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision here to provide the loan to him. Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. Ive thought about what Mr M has said about the high cost of 
the loan. I see there was a large amount of interest chargeable on the loan and I can 
appreciate that Mr M might now feel this was unfair. But I think its fair to say that the loan 
agreement set out reasonably clearly both what the interest rate was and how much he 
would have to pay if the loan ran to term. Taking everything into account, I think Mr M was 
made aware he was taking a high cost loan on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the 
time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to award any 
additional redress. 
Putting things right
I think Loans 2 Go should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mr M as payments towards the capital sum of £500;
if Mr M has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with interest* of 8% simple a year from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr M; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put 
things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman