DRN-3975044
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his account and unfairly registered a CIFAS 
marker against him. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert service. 
Mr B is also unhappy about the service Monzo provided him when it investigated fraudulent 
activity on his account. He wants more compensation than Monzo gave him for taking too 
long to get in touch with him regarding his fraud claim.  
What happened
Mr B had an account with Monzo. 
In June 2021, Mr B transferred some money into his Monzo account from an account he 
held with another bank. Following this a payment of just over £460 was made out of Mr Bs 
account to an individual I will refer to as F. Mr B says he never made this transaction and 
doesnt know F. He says he was the victim of fraud.
Mr B reported the fraud to Monzo who investigated and decided that Mr B had fallen victim 
to a phishing scam. So, it refunded the money to him in July 2021. It also paid Mr B £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill for not contacting Mr B within its usual timescales about the fraud. Mr B 
complained to Monzo and said he should be awarded more compensation. In response, 
Monzo said it had done enough to put things right. Mr B then continued to use his account.
In August 2021, a payment of £80 was paid into Mr Bs Monzo account. The money was 
transferred out immediately by Mr B. Following this Monzo were notified by another bank 
that the payment was fraudulent. 
Monzo blocked Mr Bs account and decided it needed to look into how he was operating his 
account. Following its review, it placed a fraud marker against Mr Bs name with CIFAS, the 
Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System. This was for misuse of a facility. Monzo also 
decided to close Mr Bs account. 
Mr B complained to Monzo. He said he hadnt done anything wrong and that Monzo had 
treated him unfairly when it closed his account. Monzo looked into Mr Bs complaint but 
didnt uphold it. It said it had closed Mr Bs account in line with the terms and had recorded 
Mr B fairly with CIFAS. Unhappy with this response Mr B brought his complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked into what had happened. 
The investigator asked Mr B about the £80 payment into his account. Mr B said that the 
money had been into his account by a friend of a friend for goods that had been sold. The 
investigator asked Mr B whether he had any evidence to support his explanation. But he 
didnt provide anything. 
The investigator reviewed everything and said that Monzo hadnt done anything wrong when 
it closed Mr Bs account and loaded a fraud marker against him. The investigator also said 
that Monzo had done enough to put things right regarding the service it provided Mr B when 
it was looking into his fraud claim. Mr B disagreed. He said Monzo have treated him unfairly 
and he wants more compensation because Monzo didnt do enough to protect his account 
when he fell victim to a fraudster.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the banks decision to close Mr Bs account. Its generally for banks to 
decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
A bank is also generally entitled to close an account providing its in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. In this instance the terms of Mr Bs account say that in certain 
instances Monzo can close the accounts with immediate notice. And it doesnt have to 
provide a reason for doing so.
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Monzos actions and the 
information its provided, Ive seen nothing to suggest Monzos decision around closing 
Mr Bs account was unfair. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop providing Mr B 
with banking facilities was reasonable. Im also satisfied that Monzo acted in line with the 
account terms and relevant regulations when it decided to close Mr Bs account. So, I cant 
say Monzo has treated Mr B unfairly when it closed his account immediately. 
Ive next moved on to consider the loading of the CIFAS marker against Mr B. The marker 
that Monzo have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, 
theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of a fraud of 
financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Bs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
So, I need to consider whether Monzo have sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof 
and load a marker for misuse of facility with CIFAS. Having looked at all the information 
provided, Im satisfied they have, and I say this because:
Ive seen evidence from Monzo showing that another bank notified them that Mr B 
received that the payment paid into his account on 28 August 2021 had been fraudulently obtained. The payment was for £80 and was paid into Mr Bs account via 
bank transfer. 
Monzo has provided evidence to show that the fraudulent money paid into his 
account was moved immediately to another account. Mr B hasnt disputed this 
transaction, so I think its likely he was responsible for moving the fraudulent funds 
quickly through his account and onto another. I think this action is significant. Mr B 
hasnt offered any explanation for why he did this. I think this suggests Mr B was 
most likely expecting the payment that was paid into his account in August 2021. And 
he benefitted from fraudulent funds.
Mr B has explained that the payment was for goods sold on behalf of a friend of a 
friend. But he has nothing to substantiate he was legitimately due this money.  
Despite being asked by the investigator to provide evidence to support this 
explanation he hasnt provided any paperwork or evidence that set out the 
negotiations, supply of the goods or any communications or adverts that led up to the 
sale, which is a normal occurrence when goods are sold. Its not clear to me why, if 
this was a legitimate sale of goods, he hasnt been able to provide this information. 
Without evidence to the contrary I cant rule out that he knew exactly what was going 
on and was part of the fraud himself.
If Mr B had been the unwitting beneficiary of fraudulent funds, I wouldve expected 
him to alert Monzo at the time in order that his account could be safeguarded against 
fraud. But I havent seen that he did so. I find this unusual as he appears to have 
been quick to do so in June 2021.
In my view I think its most likely Mr B allowed his Monzo account to be used for 
receiving fraudulent funds. Based on the evidence, I think he was a willing participant 
in this and in moving the money on. And that he reasonably knew this wasnt a 
legitimate activity.
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded by Mr Bs version of events. I think it was 
fair and reasonable for Monzo to believe that Mr B had been involved in a fraud or financial 
crime based on the evidence it had. So, I think it was fair for Monzo to register the CIFAS 
marker against Mr B and I wont be asking them to remove it. 
Finally, Ive looked at Mr Bs complaint about how Monzo dealt with his fraud claim in June 
2021. Mr B says Monzo should pay him more compensation. Monzo has already agreed it 
didnt handle things well and that it should have provided Mr B with better service. Monzo 
accepts that it didnt contact Mr B within 24 hours of him making his fraud claim and that he 
had to wait several days for the bank to get in touch with him. From looking at the screen 
shots of the conversations between Mr B and Monzo at the time, I think its fair to say that 
this added to Mr Bs upset at an already stressful time  especially as Mr B was worried his 
bank account was no longer safe. So, I think some compensation is appropriate for this. 
Monzo has paid Mr B £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Im satisfied that this is a fair amount of 
compensation and proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr B was caused. And that it 
recognises the impact Monzos actions had on Mr B in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint. So, I wont be directing Monzo to do anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require Monzo Bank Ltd to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman