DRN-2344382
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled claims relating to her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M has a motor insurance policy which is underwritten by UKI. She also has motor legal 
protection cover  which is also underwritten by UKI.
This complaint is about two separate claims Ms M made under her motor insurance policy, 
and her unhappiness that UKI hasnt pursued a personal injury claim under the motor legal 
protection aspect of her policy. 
Claim A (claim ending 204)
UKI considered Ms M to be at fault following evidence from an independent witness which 
said Ms M reversed into a third-party drivers car while it was stationary in traffic. Ms M 
disputes the witness evidence is credible  stating the witness couldnt see what happened 
from where they were stood. 
Our investigator said shed seen that UKI considered Ms Ms point about the witness 
credibility, but that it couldnt see that if the case went to court, the witness evidence would 
be discounted. The investigator was satisfied UKI had acted within the terms and conditions 
of the policy when reaching its decision to find Ms M at fault and so she didnt think it 
needed to do anything else.
Claim B (claim ending 026)
Ms M accepts that she reversed into a parked car. But she says as the car wasnt correctly 
parked  within the bays lines  the third-party driver is also responsible for the damage 
caused. So, she thinks its unfair the claim has been recorded as her being at fault. 
Ms M disputes the extent of the damage to the third-partys vehicle. Shes said the third party 
exaggerated the damage and so, shes unhappy UKI agreed to pay the full costs to repair 
the third partys vehicle.
UKI said that as Ms M admitted to reversing into an unattended parked car, its correctly 
recorded the claim as fault. It said it referred the third-partys claim for damage  along with 
costs and images of the damage  to one of its engineers, who confirmed the damage was 
in line with the circumstances. 
But, UKI recognised its service fell short when it didnt share images of the third partys 
vehicle with Ms M, when shed asked it to do so. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and was satisfied UKI had considered all the 
available evidence when concluding that Ms M was at fault. She explained that UKI had 
considered Ms Ms point about the third-party car not being parked correctly, but that it had 
explained why this didnt absolve Ms M of full responsibility - as the car was parked and 
unattended.
The investigator said both UKI and the third-partys engineers agreed the damage to the 
third-partys car tallied with how it was said to have occurred, and that the cost to repair the 
damage was consistent with this - so she thought UKIs decision to pay the full cost of the 
damage was fair. 
Customer service
UKI offered £100 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience it had caused 
Ms M by not updating her in respect of both claims  our investigator thought this fairly 
reflected the difficulties Ms M experienced. 
Motor legal protection
Ms M has motor legal protection cover as part of her policy. Shes unhappy that UKI initially 
told her she didnt have it. UKI has since accepted Ms M does have this additional cover, but 
it wont consider a personal injury claim under it because Ms M has been found at fault and 
so, theres no prospect of success should it go to court. 
But Ms M believes shes entitled to make a personal injury claim and start litigation to prove 
she wasnt entirely at fault. 
Our investigator explained that a claim can only be pursued under motor legal protection 
cover if someone else is to blame. And as UKI holds Ms M responsible, its acted fairly by 
informing her that she cant pursue a claim. She was satisfied the policy terms in respect of 
this had been made clear to Ms M. 
Clear information 
Ms M has said the documents provided by UKI werent clear and so she didnt know the 
difference between personal injury and personal accident claims, or that she wouldnt be 
able to pursue certain claims in the event of a fault claim.
UKI said it has taken the feedback on board. Our investigator said UKIs terms were clearly 
set out in the policy. And that when Ms M appeared to have an outdated policy document, it 
sent her an updated one. So, our investigator didnt feel UKI needed to do anything else.
No claims discount
Ms M has said that it wasnt made clear to her that her no claims discount would be 
affected as it was. Our investigator was satisfied that UKI had applied its policy terms 
correctly in respect of this.
Issues not covered by this complaint
Ms M also complains that due to her not being able to speak to UKI, her premium increased 
by 50% - and so she doesnt think the £100 compensation offered is enough. Our 
investigator explained this complaint issue is being considered under a separate reference - 
so I wont be commenting on it in this decision.  
Because Ms M remained unhappy with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Before addressing Ms Ms concerns with each claim, I need to explain that our role is not to 
determine which party is at fault, but instead consider whether the insurer, in carrying out its 
duties to decide liability, has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
The starting point is the policy document  which says UKI is entitled to take over and carry 
out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name []. I have also taken 
into account an insurers duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably 
reject a claim.
Claim A
UKI initially defended this claim but on receipt of an independent witness statement  which 
said Ms M reversed into the third-partys vehicle when it was stationary in traffic  it changed 
this to a fault claim.
Insurers are expected to consider all the available evidence when determining which party is 
at fault. A witness statement is key information, and so UKI has acted appropriately in taking 
into consideration. 
I appreciate Ms M has concerns about the credibility of the witness, but I can see that UKI 
has considered this and provided a reasoned response  explaining that it saw no reason 
why the witness evidence would be discounted at court, and so it was satisfied it was 
credible evidence upon which it could rely. I would expect UKI to explain and evidence how it 
reached its decision, and its done that  so, Im satisfied acted fairly.
Claim B
Ms M has two concerns in respect of this claim. First, she considers the third-party driver to 
be partly responsible for the incident. Second, she thinks UKI acted unfairly by agreeing to 
the third partys costs for damages as she feels these were exaggerated. 
Ive seen that UKI has considered all the evidence in respect of this claim  including Ms Ms 
testimony that the third-partys vehicle wasnt within the lines of the parking bay. UKI has 
explained that even though the vehicle may have not been parked correctly, whats key is 
that it was parked and unattended, and so its not reasonable to hold the third-party at fault 
for the fact that Ms M reversed into the other car. And so, Im satisfied its considered 
determining liability fairly.
With regards to the cost of the damage, UKIs engineer and the third partys engineer agreed 
this was consistent with the damage that occurred. Im satisfied that as the evidence was 
reviewed by two engineers  who are experts in this area  UKIs decision to pay the full 
costs was reasonable. 
UKI has acknowledged that it didnt send photos of the damage to Ms M when shed asked it 
to. While this would have been frustrating for Ms M, I dont think this prejudiced her position, 
as the evidence was reviewed by two engineers. In any event, the policy explains its up to 
UKI to decide how it settles a claim, and so, while Ms M may disagree with the costs, the 
decision is ultimately UKIs.Motor legal protection
UKI incorrectly told Ms M she didnt have motor legal protection as part of her policy. It 
subsequently realised she did, so it corrected itself and apologised for its mistake - which is 
what Id expect it to do. 
UKI then referred Ms Ms claim for personal injury to solicitors for legal advice as to the 
likelihood of her succeeding if legal proceedings were pursued. Ms M was initially told she 
could pursue a claim for personal injury but, UKI later withdrew cover when it received legal 
advice that there werent reasonable prospects of success - as Ms M had been found at 
fault. So, I need to consider whether this was fair.
Ive looked at the motor legal protection policy wording, it says:
Before we go ahead, we must agree with your appointed representative that your 
claim has a reasonable chance of succeeding. This can change during your claim.
It goes on to say:
You can use this cover if youre in a road traffic accident with a moving vehicle, as 
defined by the Road Traffic Act, where someone else is to blame.
Its important to explain that just because a policy holder has legal protection cover, it 
doesnt mean they are entitled to use it in respect of every incident that may happen. Its a 
condition of the policy that cover is only provided where the policyholder is more likely than 
not to succeed and that someone else is to blame. UKI is entitled to rely on the legal advice 
its received  which is that there wasnt prospects of success because Ms M was at fault - 
and so I dont think its acted unfairly in withdrawing cover, when its apparent neither 
condition has been met.
I understand UKI initially said Ms M could pursue a personal injury claim but that was prior to 
the claim being recorded as fault. And as the policy terms state, whether theres a 
reasonable chance of success can change during a claim  which is whats happened here. 
Ms M being told initially she could pursue a claim for personal injury doesnt mean this was 
something she was always going to be entitled to do. As a result, Im satisfied UKI has acted 
fairly when reaching its decision to withdrew legal cover.
Clear information 
From reading the policy document, Im satisfied the terms relating to Ms Ms claims are 
clear. I understand that during a call with UKI it became apparent Ms M had an outdated 
policy document, but UKI sent an updated one shortly after  and thats what Id expect it to 
do. I cant see that Ms M has been prejudiced as a result of this, and so I dont think UKI 
need to do anything else. 
No claims discount
Ms M is unhappy that her no claims discount has gone from eight to three years  and she 
says it wasnt made clear to her this would happen as a result of a fault claim. Ive looked at 
the policy document and it says, if you claim on your policy, we may reduce your no claims 
discount (NCD). It also includes a table which shows how UKI will adjust a policy holders 
renewal premium in line the no claims discount scale. So, Im satisfied it was apparent, that 
in the event of claim, Ms Ms no claims discount would be affected.
Customer serviceUKI has acknowledged that its service fell short at times, and its offered £100 to reflect this. 
Im satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that this fairly reflects the difficulties Ms M has 
experienced and so I wont be asking UKI to increase this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman