DRN-3810689
The complaint
Mr Z complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont repair his car after he made a claim 
on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Z bought his car as a Category S total loss and had it repaired. He was involved in two 
minor accidents and made a claim on his policy. UKI took the car for repairs. But when it 
stripped the car it found extensive poor repairs had been previously made. So it offered Mr Z 
£1,005 cash in lieu of repairs and it paid him £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by telling him that it would carry out repairs. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr Z said the 
previous damage had been minor. But Category S means there has been structural damage 
and UKIs inspection had found structural damage. Mr Z provided an independent assessors 
report. But this didnt distinguish between the previous repairs and those carried out by UKI. 
He then supplemented this. The assessor thought the previous repairs had been adequate 
and that UKIs garage had made subsequent poor repairs. 
But the Investigator thought UKI wasnt able to complete adequate repairs because of the 
previous poor repairs. He thought UKIs offers were fair. And he thought UKI had also 
completed some repairs that werent accident-related. 
Mr Z replied that he thought the damage had been caused by his accidents. He thought the 
repairs would cost more than UKI had offered. He said he wanted his car written off or for 
UKI to pay for its repair. He asked for an ombudsmans review. So his complaint has come 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr Z wants his car returned to its pre-accident condition. And I can 
understand that he feels frustrated that UKI wont carry out the repairs. But UKI is only 
responsible, under Mr Zs policy, for making repairs that are related to a claim. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional 
repairs.
After UKI took the car for repairs, it found that Mr Zs car had been a total loss due to 
structural damage and classified as a Category S total loss. Mr Z thought that when he 
bought the car there had been damage just to the engine that made the car too expensive to 
repair. But Im satisfied that Category S means there was structural damage to the car, as 
well as anything cosmetic. Mr Z had had the car repaired himself. And UKI found that:
the front chassis arms were out of line,
a second hand, poorly repaired door had been fitted,
bolts were missing, and some were loose, 
incorrect bolts and screws had been used, and
there were rusted structural parts which showed a previous poor repair.
Mr Z kindly provided reports from an independent assessor. He compared photographs 
taken of the car after Mr Z had bought and repaired it with photographs taken after UKI 
returned it to Mr Z. And I agree that the car doesnt appear in as good a condition in the 
latter photographs. But I cant reasonably hold UKI responsible for this or for making further 
repairs. 
This is because UKI had stripped the car, which the independent assessor hadnt done. So 
he wouldnt have seen all the faults found by UKI that its engineer determined were due to 
poor repairs. I think it then reassembled the car as best it could and responded to Mr Zs 
concerns. 
But it couldnt further repair Mr Zs car without also addressing these previous repairs. And 
this isnt covered by Mr Zs policy. As Ive said above, UKI is only responsible for the 
accident-related repairs. So I think UKI reasonably considered the evidence and justified its 
decision not to pay for these previous faulty repairs.  
UKI then offered Mr Z cash in lieu of repairs for the cost of the repairs it was responsible for 
under his policy. This was £1,005. 
I can see that on page 12 of Mr Zs policy booklet, UKI states: 
If your car is damaged, we have the option to:
pay to repair the damage or repair the damage ourselves:
replace what is lost or damaged, if this is more cost-effective than repairing it: or
settle your claim by sending you a cheque or by bank transfer.
I think this isnt an unusual policy term and condition in motor insurance policies. And I think 
it was sufficiently brought to Mr Zs attention in the policy documents for UKI to rely on it to 
decide to make a cash in lieu of repairs offer. 
Mr Z said the amount offered wasnt sufficient to pay for the repairs. But I can see that it was 
calculated by the engineer and UKI also made unrelated repairs to the car. So Im satisfied 
that it was fair and reasonable, and I dont require UKI to increase this. 
UKI agreed that its level of service could have been better. I can see that after its garage first 
returned Mr Zs car it was in a poor condition. This was then remedied as best the garage 
could and UKI offered Mr Z £100 compensation for this trouble which it later increased to 
£200. 
I consider that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances as Im satisfied that its in 
keeping with our published guidance for the level of impact. I dont require UKI to increase 
this. UKI said the offer is an open one. So I think its for Mr Z to accept this offer if he is so 
minded. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman