DRN-4045866
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the service Lloyds Bank Plc has provided in relation to an 
indemnity claim Mr P requested under the Direct Debit Guarantee.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
As Mr P will be aware, the direct debit guarantee (DDG) isnt designed to deal with 
contractual disputes between a customer and the originator of a direct debit (DD). Its there 
to provide a customer with a full and immediate refund where an error is made in the 
payment of a DD by the originator, or the bank or building society. And a business can ask 
for more information to establish if there has been a payment error before making a refund 
under the DDG.
The payment errors the DDG generally refer to are where (for example) the payment date, 
amount or frequency has changed without a customer being told, or a payment has been set 
up in error or without the customers permission. In this case Mr P says Lloyds have acted 
on a DD instruction that he hadnt authorised. 
Lloyds have provided system notes to show the DD was first set up in 2012. At that time the 
Energy Supplier was operating under a different name which changed in 2019, but this didnt 
alter the DD which had been set up in 2012.
Mr P has said he wants Lloyds to provide a copy of the DD mandate he signed giving his 
authorisation. However, it may be helpful if I explain that most DDs are set up electronically 
by the originator (in this case the energy provider) via a system known as the Automated 
Direct Debit Instruction Service (AUDDIS). As such, in most cases the signed mandate is not 
held by Lloyds. So, I wouldnt expect it to be able to provide this service or provide Mr P with 
a copy of it. But even if it was provided with the mandate, due to the time that has passed I 
wouldnt expect Lloyds to have a copy of the mandate from that time.
In order to set up a DD a customer has to give the payee authority to claim for the funds. 
During a conversation with our investigator, Mr P seemed to imply he didnt authorise the 
original DD in 2012. In this case, its not in dispute that the energy provider claimed the DDs 
on numerous occasions over a long period of time before Mr P raised concerns. Had Mr Ps 
DDs not been authorised, been claimed on the wrong date or the wrong amount, I consider 
it reasonable that he would have raised this matter sooner than he did. Mr P, during the 
same call with our investigator said, the amount was so little, he didnt notice it. But this 
doesnt correlate with the information he provided Lloyds.
I say this because I have listened to a phone call between Mr P and Lloyds where he says:
I know I set them up but its to do with S who were suppose to take the readings and send 
me a bill but they didnt so they werent authorised to take the money from my account
The advisor from Lloyds then asks Mr P if this money was owed to the energy supplier. and 
Mr P responded saying:
some money is owed to them, but that money isnt, I asked them and they refused to 
discuss it so I dont have any choice to use the Direct Debit guarantee and they will have to 
discuss it as I will have my money back.
So, with that in mind, Im not persuaded I can rule out that Mr Ps claim stems from a 
contractual dispute between him and the energy supplier which is something the DDG 
doesnt cover.
Nonetheless, I can see that Lloyds did raise a DDI claim with the energy supplier. However, 
the energy supplier provided evidence which successfully challenged the claim. I have seen 
a copy of this evidence and therefore, I am satisfied, accompanied with Mr Ps statement 
listed above, that Lloyds acted fairly in reaching the conclusion that this is a contractual 
dispute. 
Mr P says the way Lloyds has treated him is unfair and he feels he was treated in a 
discriminatory way due to his race. I would like to highlight that its not my role to decide if 
the Equality Act has been breached, as that is for the court to decide. However, I can look to 
see if Lloyds treated Mr P fairly. And based on my reasoning outlined above, I feel Mr P was 
treated the same as any other customer in the same set of circumstances.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont believe the fair way to resolve this dispute would be 
for me to simply require Lloyds to refund Mr P. So, I dont find that Lloyds was wrong to 
refuse to take Mr Ps DDI claim any further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman