DRN-1158763
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) paid out an excessive amount when 
a third party (TP) claimed on Mr Cs motor insurance policy after a minor collision. 
What happened
In February 2017, Mr C drove out of a parking space and rolled into the rear of TPs car. TP 
instituted a claim against Mr Cs motor insurance policy with Ageas.
Mr C was contacted by Ageas and confirmed the circumstances of the accident. But he said 
contact was slight, there was some pre-existing damage to the rear of TPs car, and no 
obvious damage had been caused by him to TPs car.
Ageas told TP that it accepted liability, but didnt agree the amount of his damage claim. TP 
produced an independent engineers report on the damage. Ageas referred this to its in 
house engineer, who confirmed the damage being claimed for was consistent with the 
accident circumstances, and on the balance of probabilities could have been caused by Mr 
Cs car.
Ageas concluded that if the claim went to court, Ageas was unlikely to succeed. So it settled 
TPs claim on the best terms it could. It paid for the damage to TPs car on a total loss basis, 
the cost of TP hiring a replacement car, and a personal damage claim for minor injuries by 
TP and his passenger.
When Mr C came to renew his motor insurance, he found the claim was shown against his 
insurance record as a fault claim, and the premiums he had to pay had increased 
significantly. He complained about this to Ageas, and said he wanted the claim to be 
removed.
Ageas explained why it had settled TPs claim, and the steps it had taken to minimise this. It 
said it had explained this previously to Mr C when he had phoned Ageas in November 2018. 
At that time he appeared to understand and accept why the claim had been settled, and how 
the settlement was made up.
Mr C remained dissatisfied and complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr Cs 
policy contained the following term:
Car insurance conditions  Claims
In dealing with any claim under the terms of this policy, your insurer may:
Carry out the defence or settlement of any claim.So under the policy terms, Ageas was entitled to settle the claim as it did. Insurers took into 
account various factors when charging insurance premiums. After a claim on his policy it 
wasnt unreasonable that his premiums should increase.
Mr C didnt accept this recommendation and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering a complaint about how an insurer has administered a claim under a policy, we 
will look to see that it has acted within the terms of the policy, and in a way that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator has explained that Mr Cs policy, like most motor insurance polices, 
contained a provision, which is set out above, allowing Ageas to carry out the defence or 
settlement of any claim. So in paying out TPs claim under the policy, Im satisfied Ageas 
was acting within the policy terms.
However such a policy term is very wide in scope. So we will always look to see that an 
insurer has exercised its power in a fair and reasonable manner.
In this case TP produced an independent engineers report on the damage to TPs car, 
which would have been available to a court. Ageass own in house engineer considered the 
damage being claimed for was consistent with the accident circumstances, and on the 
balance of probabilities could have been caused by Mr Cs car.
In these circumstances Ageas concluded that it would be unlikely to succeed if the claim 
went to court. So it settled TPs claim on the best terms available. I cant say Ageas acted 
unreasonably in exercising its power as it did. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Ageas 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman