DRN-3425453
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) has refused to refund transactions he believed 
he was making to a legitimate binary options company called Golden Markets, which he 
says turned out to be fraudulent.  He made these transactions using his NewDay 
(Debenhams) Mastercard credit card.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr S has told our service, amongst other things:
Golden Markets contacted him and,  convinced me that I would make very big 
profits if I deposited with them.
He made several payments to his Golden Markets trading account using his 
NewDay (Debenhams) Mastercard credit card.
He realised Golden Markets were operating a scam when,  they had not ever 
loaded my deposits onto the financial markets.  As they could not.  They have no 
license or regulation and therefore they could never have invested the money.
He attempted to withdraw his money but could not: I no longer can access any 
account.  They have run away with my money.
Mr S asked NewDay to recover the money he lost.  As this did not happen, he raised a 
complaint which was also referred to our service.
In short, NewDay says that Mr Ss payments are not covered by chargeback or section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint and upheld it in part.  She thought that 
some of the payments concerned were covered by section 75, and so NewDay should 
refund these sums to Mr S.
Mr S accepted the investigators findings, but NewDay did not responded.  So, the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision
On 22 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part.  
For completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what I can see, Mr S, NewDay and the investigator: have all set out different amounts 
in terms of the payments concerned  including different names of the merchants involved.  
Because of this, I asked NewDay to provide me with a copy of Mr Ss statements.
Since receiving the statements, I have identified the following payments made using Mr Ss 
NewDay (Debenhams) Mastercard credit card (amounts in italics are transaction fees):
Date Merchant Amount
3 January 2018 Company C £382.85
3 January 2018 £10.53
3 January 2018 Company C £382.85
3 January 2018 £10.53 
3 January 2018 Company C £382.85
3 January 2018 £10.53
3 January 2018 Company O £222.18
3 January 2018 £6.11
3 January 2018 Company Z £370.30
3 January 2018 £10.18
3 January 2018 Company Z £370.30
3 January 2018 £10.18
23 January 2018 Company Z £4,668.90
23 January 2018 £128.39
28 February 2018 Company B £726.02
28 February 2018 £19.97
28 February 2018 Company Z £1,815.05
28 February 2018 £49.91
The investigator held that NewDay should refund Mr S all the payments he made from 23 
January 2018, including any transaction fees.  This would mean, the refund would start with 
Mr Ss payment to Company Z for £4,668.90.
I agree that NewDay should refund Mr S all the payments he made from 23 January 2018.  
However, for different reasons to those put forward by the investigator.
For the avoidance of doubt, based on the evidence before me, I think, prima facie, that Mr S 
has established a valid claim for breach of contract and misrepresentation under section 75 
for some of the disputed payments.  Therefore, I think a claim under section 75 for either 
action mentioned would likely succeed with regards to those payments.  However, taking 
into account the particular circumstances of this case  I have considered whether NewDay 
should have intervened based on fraud triggers.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in fact a 
scam.  Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) 
commodities or stocks that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses.  Some binary-
options traders promoted these products  which were not regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) or its predecessor at the time  using sales methods that were 
arguably unethical and/or misleading.  However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below).  But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on investment fraud, below).  So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular 
retailer/trader was actually a fraudster.
I am satisfied that Golden Markets were not carrying out legitimate binary-options trades but 
were instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with 
the money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to 
show purported gains  with initial token pay-outs  in order to induce further investments 
from victims such as Mr S.  In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this 
because:
a) After 13 January 2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating in the UK 
were required to be regulated by the FCA  whereas Golden Markets were not.  Nor 
were they regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware. This 
indicates they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions.  Legitimate 
firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements.
b) On 25 May 2018, a warning about Golden Markets was published on the FCAs 
website.
c) There are several reports in the public domain  e.g. foreign press and online forum 
 stating that Golden Markets were scammers.  This hearsay is not in itself sufficient 
evidence of fraud.  But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly and 
reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture 
of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice, I need to consider the following:
a) Did NewDay deal with Mr Ss chargeback claims fairly?
b) If so, were any of the disputed transactions still so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr 
S and/or their account that NewDay fraud alerts ought reasonably to have triggered 
some sort of intervention?
c) If triggered, would NewDays intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss?
d) And if so, was Mr S partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
Chargeback
Based on the evidence before me, I am not satisfied Mr S has any rights under the 
Mastercard chargeback scheme.  So, NewDay declining to pursue a chargeback claim any 
further on Mr Ss behalf  where there were no reasonable prospects of success  was 
neither an unfair nor unreasonable exercise of NewDays discretion in my view.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
NewDay is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties 
to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations.  It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr S for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009/2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time.  
This is because they were made by Mr S using the legitimate security credentials provided to 
them by NewDay.  These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr S was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam.  So, although he did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, 
Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
NewDay should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams.  As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO).  In my judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger 
alarm-bells  and lead to the payment being paused  pending further enquiries (and a 
possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr Ss case, there was no warning published about Golden Markets on the FCAs website 
until about three months after he made his final payment.  Moreover, although Mr S believed 
he was paying Golden Markets  his payments were in fact made to Company Z and 
Company B.  I therefore do not think NewDay ought to have automatically blocked the 
payments. 
Notwithstanding this, in light of the significant amount of Mr Ss payment on 23 January 2018 
(£4,668.90), I do think that by this payment, there are fraud triggers here  particularly given 
this was a payee trading in binary options without being registered with the FCA (as required 
at the time).
Therefore, it would have been reasonable for NewDay to have properly questioned Mr S 
before processing this payment in order to satisfy itself that all was well.If NewDay had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr S and asking 
suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that he would have explained what he 
was doing.  In such circumstances, whilst NewDay had no duty to protect Mr S from a bad 
bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited him to check whether the payee was 
registered with the FCA.  It could have also explained its own customer experiences with 
merchants like Golden Markets in that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing 
available balances.  After all, at that time, there was information in the public domain  which 
a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks 
associated with binary options including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action 
Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 
warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; the 
Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely 
operating illegally; and Visas business news 26 October 2017 and so forth).
There is no evidence that NewDay provided Mr S with any meaningful warnings or gave him 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making.  It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.
Causation
If NewDay had asked Mr S what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it 
is likely they would have fully explained what they were doing and that everything had been 
done over the phone and online with the merchant.  NewDay did not need to know for 
certain whether Mr S was dealing with a fraudulent binary options trader or investing in a 
legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough 
to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice.  
I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that NewDay ought reasonably to 
have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial 
professionals about the risks associated with unregulated, overseas binary options.
If NewDay had given a warning, I believe that Mr S would have paused and looked more 
closely into Golden Markets before proceeding.  It seems more probable that Mr S would 
have made further enquiries into binary-options scams and whether or not Golden Markets 
were regulated in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered they were not and the various 
regulatory warnings about the risk of binary-options/forex scams (see above).  In other 
words, I am satisfied that a warning from NewDay would probably have exposed Golden 
Markets false pretences, causing Mr S to stop trading and preventing further losses.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).  I do not place too much weight on general but arcane information in 
the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about the information imbalance 
between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.
In this case, I do not think that Mr S was to blame for what happened; that he did not foresee 
the risk of this sort of harm or any harm.  I do not think Mr S could have foreseen the risk 
that the company they were dealing with was a scam and the trading account they were 
viewing was likely to be a simulation.
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr S should share blame for what happened.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S responded to say he agreed with my provisional findings and was happy with the 
outcome.  However, NewDay has not responded.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr S agreed with my provisional findings, but NewDay did not respond  I see no 
reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part.  I therefore direct that NewDay 
Ltd:
Pay Mr S all the money he lost from 23 January 2018, including associated 
transaction fees (as set out above)  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
Interest (less any tax properly deductible)  either (i) at the simple rate of 8% per 
year on the payments from the date they were paid to the date of settlement; or (ii) if 
the account accrued interest because the relevant statement balances were not paid 
in full, interest should be paid at the rate actually charged for the payments from the 
date Mr S reported the fraud to NewDay Ltd.
Should an outstanding balance be owed on Mr Ss credit card account relating to the 
payments and/or interest on the payments, NewDay Ltd is entitled to repay this 
balance first from the settlement outlined in the bullets above. 
If NewDay Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Mr S with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman