DRN-2626597
The complaint
Ms H complains Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly declined her holiday cancellation 
claim.
What happened
Ms H had planned to travel on holiday with two friends in March 2019. One of her friends  
Mrs T  was unfortunately diagnosed with cancer and was to undergo surgery. 
Following the diagnosis on 5 March 2019, Ms H took out a travel insurance policy with IPA 
the next day. 
Mrs T attended a pre-operative assessment in relation to her planned surgery, around a 
week before the holiday. And as a result of this assessment, the doctor advised her not to 
travel. Ms H and her two friends decided to cancel their holiday as a result. And Ms H made 
a claim against her policy. 
IPA said Ms H had bought the policy the day after her friend was diagnosed with cancer. So 
it thought she was aware of a reason the trip might need to be cancelled, and because of 
this, it said the claim wasnt covered. 
Ms H complained to IPA about the claim decision, and the way she was treated when 
making her claim. 
IPA maintained its decision to decline the claim had been correct. It said the policy didnt 
provide cover where a third partys medical condition could reasonably have been expected 
to result in a claim. It also said Ms H and her other friend could have continued with the trip 
and said the policy didnt cover disinclination to travel. 
Unhappy with IPAs response, Ms H brought her complaint to this service. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said:
Ms Hs policy states the following is not covered: 
Any claims arising directly or indirectly from:
Circumstances known to you before you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking 
any trip or one-way trip which could reasonably have been expected to lead to cancellation 
or curtailment of the trip or one-way trip. 
And 
any medical condition affecting a third party, that you are aware of, that could reasonably be 
expected to result in a claim on this policy. 
For your information, examples include but are not limited to:
A third party who has received a terminal prognosis;
A third party who is receiving or waiting for hospital investigation or treatment for an 
undiagnosed condition or a set of symptoms;
A third party who is receiving inpatient treatment;
A third party who has an existing medical condition or illness, that has presented new or a 
change to symptoms.. 
I considered what Ms H knew of her friends condition at the time she purchased her policy. 
And whether she could reasonably have expected that the trip might need to be cancelled. 
Mrs T was diagnosed with cancer on 5 March 2019. However she was told by her doctor that 
she would be able to go ahead with her planned holiday, and was scheduled to have surgery 
shortly after her return. 
Ms H took out her travel insurance policy on 6 March 2019. And I was satisfied that at that 
time, Ms H was aware one of the friends she was due to travel with, had been diagnosed 
with cancer and was scheduled for surgery.
Id been provided with a further medical letter Mrs T received dated 20 March 2019, following 
a pre-operative assessment ahead of her planned surgery. The doctor recommended Mrs T 
should not continue with her planned trip on 23 March 2019. The reasons given were as 
follows: 
[The nurse] was concerned that your risk of blood clots in the legs and the lungs was 
high given your long haul flight planned and extended duration of travel along with 
your cancer diagnosis and your weight... She had contacted a consultant 
haematologist for advice who had confirmed you are very high risk for this condition. 
This statement shows Mrs T was at a high risk of blood clots in relation to the flight and this 
was partly due to her existing cancer diagnosis. So I was persuaded the reason Ms Hs 
friend was unable to travel was related to her earlier cancer diagnosis, which Ms H was 
aware of when she took out her policy.
I thought it reasonable to expect that someone who has been diagnosed with cancer and is 
awaiting surgery might encounter complications which could lead to them being unable to 
travel. And because of this, I didnt think IPA declined Ms Hs claim unfairly. 
Ms H explained the reasons she didnt continue the trip with the remaining other friend who 
was due to travel. IPA has pointed out that disinclination to travel isnt one of the cancellation 
reasons covered under the policy. And I agree this is the case, so I still think its fair that the 
claim wasnt accepted. 
Mrs T was also referred for investigations for another type of cancer following her pre-
operative assessment. I accepted this wasnt known at the time Ms H took out her policy. 
However, I didnt think it made a difference. I said that because the medical letter 
recommending Mrs T shouldnt travel related this to her original cancer diagnosis, which was 
known at the time Ms H took out her policy. 
Ms H also complained about the way IPA handled calls with her in relation to the claim and 
said the person she spoke with lacked empathy. I listened to the calls and they were handled 
as I would expect. In my opinion the call handler showed empathy toward the situation at 
several points. Because of this, I didnt think any payment of compensation was necessary. 
The response to my provisional decision Ms H and IPA both confirmed they had received my provisional decision, but didnt provide 
any further comments for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has presented any further comments, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Inter Partner Assistance SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman