DRN-3985283
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim on 
their home insurance.
Both Mr and Mrs S are named policyholders on their Admiral policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr S, Ill refer mainly to Mr S from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an Admiral home insurance policy. In February 2022, their home suffered 
severe roof and internal water damage during a storm. Mr S made an insurance claim to 
Admiral. Admiral appointed a loss adjustor to manage the claim. However, over the next six 
months, Mr S encountered multiple problems. Temporary repairs werent made until April 
2022, and permanent repairs not until June 2022. 
In May 2022, Admiral accepted that delays progressing the claim, the service provided by its 
loss adjustor, and the time taken for its contractor to make temporary repairs were all 
entirely unacceptable. It offered Mr and Mr S £325: £300 for the distress/inconvenience, 
and £25 to reimburse them for phone calls chasing progress on their claim. 
In September 2022, following more problems with their claim, Admiral offered Mr and Mrs S 
another £215: £200 for the ongoing trouble and upset this was causing them, and £15 for 
more phone calls. 
While Mr S is happy with the second award, he doesnt think Admirals first award 
adequately compensated his family for the level of stress and distress caused to his family 
or took into account the level of disregard for our safety. He brought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld because he was 
satisfied that Admirals total offer was fair. Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the case 
was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 February 2023. I said:
Admiral accepted Mr Ss claim for the storm damage and agreed that its handling of the 
claim was unacceptable. So the only thing for me to consider here is the level of 
compensation it offered Mr and Mr S.
The key points are:
Mr and Mrs Ss home was unsafe, with a large hole in the roof. Admirals loss 
adjustor showed no urgency in arranging temporary repairs.
They were in a vulnerable situation with a very young baby and another small child.
Admiral and its loss adjustor failed to return phone calls as promised.
It took almost a month before the contractor arranged a visit to make temporary 
repairs to the roof.
When the contractor finally visited Mr Ss home in March 2022, he didnt carry out the 
repairs. He then falsely told Admiral and the loss adjustor hed completed this.
A temporary repair wasnt done until 5 April 2022, over six weeks after the storm.
These repairs were inadequate and didnt stop more rain getting into their home in 
May 2022, causing further internal damage.
Admiral didnt approve the claim until the end of April 2022.
Permanent repairs werent completed until 11 June 2022, almost four months after 
the storm.
The claim wasnt fully settled until September 2022.
I agree with Admiral when it described the service provided as unacceptable. Ive no doubt 
this caused Mr and Mrs S significant distress and inconvenience. I know a lot of this was 
caused by Admirals loss adjustor and contractor, however Admiral is responsible for its 
agents actions. Im glad it acknowledged this, apologised to Mr and Mrs S, and offered them 
compensation.
Ive thought carefully about the awards this service typically makes in similar circumstances. 
Admiral has offered Mr and Mrs S £500, plus £40 to reimburse them for the many phone 
calls they had to make about their claim. On balance, I dont think this is enough. I think a 
more appropriate award is £750. That means I think Admiral should pay Mr and Mrs S an 
extra £210.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision and had nothing to add.
Admiral told us it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has submitted any new evidence, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S an extra £210 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it 
caused them in its handling of their insurance claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman