DRN-2544302
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that the National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a claim 
under their building warranties policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H hold a building warranty for their property which began in May 2013. In August
2018, they contacted NHBC as they noticed that the flooring had started to warp and lift in
some areas.
NHBC attended the property and agreed there was damage where the screed had broken
up and failed to bond the flooring. But it concluded any repair work required wouldnt meet
the Minimum Claim Value (MCV) of the policy. So it rejected Mr and Mrs Hs claim. As part
of the investigation NHBC said it was aware Mr and Mrs H felt the whole of the
kitchen/dining room floor was affected. It said that if further damage was present then Mr
and Mrs H needed to provide photos of the damage for it to review the claim.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with NHBCs findings and complained. NHBC maintained its
position to decline the claim.
Unhappy with NHBCs response, Mr and Mrs H referred the complaint to our service. They
provided an independent report from a flooring expert (who Ill refer to as S) which said that
the problem runs throughout the ground floor of the house. As such, they wanted the entire
floor re-screed, re-levelled, and the flooring refitted or replaced as necessary.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. She found
the report provided by Mr and Mrs H was persuasive in determining the cause of the screed
failing. She found it wasnt reasonable for NHBC to conclude that repairs were only required
to a small area of the floor. So she said NHBC should either repair the whole of the ground
floor as suggested in S report, or, re-assess the whole ground floor and cost of repair. And if
it was found the costs met the MCV to accept and deal with the claim. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted our investigators opinion. NHBC disagreed. It said the reports it had
considered didnt show that Physical Damage was present in other areas of the ground floor
 which would be required in order to provide cover under the policy. It said it had limited its
own inspection to where areas of physical damage (i.e. the floor lifting) had been reported.
So, as the remainder of the floor was not currently failing to perform, it shouldnt be covered
under the policy as it would be preventative work.
NHBC asked for an opportunity to reconsider S report. And having done so it made an offer
to settle the claim. It said it was prepared to extend the scope of repair to the whole of the
kitchen/dining room floor to a natural break point. NHBC said this was because it was
satisfied S report showed evidence of physical damage to the flooring and screed in this
area. It proposed to offer a cash settlement in line with what it would have cost it to do the
repair.
Following a further recommendation by our investigator, NHBC also agreed to offer £200 for
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept NHBCs offer. They said the policy didnt state that physical
damage needed to be in the other rooms in the house. They said it was evident the defect
runs throughout the ground floor of the house, so any repair done would not be long-lasting
or effective. And they said they believed the hollow sound coming from the other areas of the
flooring to be physical damage. Mr and Mrs H said they now believed the floor was starting
to lift in the hallway too and provided a photo of the area.
The complaint was passed to me and on 11 January 2021 I set out in my provisional 
decision why I felt NHBC needed to do more to resolve the complaint. Ive included an 
extract below.
It is not for me to decide whether the flooring itself or how it was built meets general building
regulations. Instead, it is to see if NHBC has acted fairly or not in how it has assessed the
claim under its policy terms. 
In order to do this, I will consider the evidence provided by both parties about the condition 
of the floor against the terms and conditions of the policy. But first, Ive looked at what
Mr and Mrs Hs policy actually covers them for in the circumstances of this case.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy covers problems with a newly constructed home that can be linked to
a breach by the builder of one or more of NHBCs technical requirements. And the value of a
claim needs to exceed the MCV of the policy. At the time Mr and Mrs H raised the claim the
MCV on the policy was £1,630.
NHBCs own technical requirements are not the same as the building regulations, so it will
be the technical requirements on which I base my decision.
Ive considered the policy document that relates to Mr and Mrs Hs policy. The policy terms
in Section 3, (which cover years 3 to 10 after the property is completed) state what NHBC
will pay for:
1) We will pay you the full Cost, if it is more than £1,000 indexed, of putting right any
Damage in any of the following parts of the house, bungalow, maisonette or flat
The term goes on to cover j) staircases and internal floor decking and screeds where these
fail to support normal loads.
The policy defines Damage as Physical damage to a Home caused by a Defect. And it
defines a Defect as The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or
anyone employed by or acting for the Builder. Failure to follow the guidance supporting an
NHBC Requirement does not amount to a Defect if the performance required by the NHBC
Requirement is achieved by other means.
So based on this, I now need to consider if the evidence Ive been provided with satisfies all
of the above criteria.
Ive considered both the reports completed by S and NHBC. The report provided by S is
detailed in explaining how the screed has come to fail. And the recommendations it makes to
replace the flooring are based on an assumption that the remaining screed will fail over time.
Theres no dispute in either report that the screed is defective. But Mr and Mrs Hs policy
provides cover for physical damage caused by a defect, not the defect itself.Mr and Mrs H say that the hollow sound coming from other areas is physical damage. Ive
carefully considered the point they are making here. And S report states the hollow sound
means the screed is not sufficiently bonded to the floor. But I think what this shows is that
the screed is defective. It doesnt necessarily follow that the entire floor is damaged. NHBC
say that the damage is limited to where the floor itself has warped and raised up. And on
balance I think the warping and raising of the floor is what meets the policy definition of
damage.
I understand the point Mr and Mrs H are making when they say that repairs will be required
to prevent other areas of the ground floor from raising up and warping. But the policy terms
and insurance dont cover for damage that hasnt yet happened. As such, were other areas
of the floor to raise and warp, it would need to be considered by NHBC as a separate matter.
NHBC has now accepted the damage to the kitchen/dining room floor based on the evidence
provided. I think this is reasonable. And it has offered a cash settlement based on what it
would cost it to do the repairs. Mr and Mrs Hs policy says, for claims under items 1(a) to
(m)we will pay you your portion of the cost of the necessary work or, at our option, arrange
to get the necessary work done at our expense.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs H have asked for the claim to be settled in
cash, so it doesnt seem reasonable for NHBC to settle at its own cost here. I think a fair
settlement means that NHBC should settle at the cost to Mr and Mrs H, subject to a
reasonable quote being provided. Alternatively, If Mr and Mrs H wish NHBC to repair the
affected area only, then this should also be an option available to them.
Mr and Mrs H also paid £655 for S report which identified the further damage. Usually, if a
report shows there is a valid claim, then we would ask for the insurer to reimburse the cost of
the report. But in this case I need to consider NHBCs obligations under the initial claim,
which were to inspect the damage on a small area of raised flooring. S report is detailed and
includes a full survey of the ground floor, which I wouldnt expect NHBC to have done. But
NHBC did ask Mr and Mrs H to provide evidence of further damage which they did, and this
evidence was subsequently accepted. So I think it would be reasonable for NHBC to make a
contribution of 50% towards the costs of S report to reflect this.
Our investigator recommended NHBC pay Mr and Mrs H £200 compensation for the distress
and inconvenience caused. Having considered everything, I agree there was some delay
caused by NHBC not considering S report sooner when Mr and Mrs H originally submitted it.
So I think a payment of £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Developments
NHBC responded and accepted my provisional findings. It had nothing further to add to this 
complaint. Mr and Mrs H responded to my findings and in summary they said:
There were further areas of physical damage now in the property which included the 
kitchen doorway, hallway, and downstairs cloakroom. Mr and Mrs H provided 
photographs of the raised flooring in these areas;
Does the policy cover a major defect in the construction of their property?;
What would happen if there was further damage once the policy lapsed after the 10-
year period?;
There is no real natural break point in the flooring as it runs throughout the ground 
floor. 
Any contractor who did the work would need to find a point where the screed was still 
bonded to the flooring  a hard edge. Mr and Mrs H have been told this would be 
the biggest challenge in any repair;
No consideration has been made for any alternative accommodation whilst the repair 
works are carried out;
They would prefer to get the work done themselves.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, including Mr and Mrs Hs latest response, I find myself 
coming to the same conclusions as reached in my provisional decision. And Ill explain why 
Mr and Mrs Hs comments havent changed my mind about what Ive seen.
Ive seen the photographs provided by Mr and Mrs H which they say shows new areas of the 
floor raising. But I think this needs to be considered by NHBC as a new matter as it doesnt 
form part of the original complaint to our service. Our service will do what it can to finalise 
matters for the parties, but we cant run a complaint alongside a claim. And it wouldnt be fair 
for me to decide on whether this new damage meets the terms of the policy without giving 
NHBC an opportunity to consider it and amend its settlement offer if necessary.
In regard to Mr and Mrs Hs comments about the policy cover, I refer back to my provisional 
findings where I set out what the policy covers in the circumstances of this case. Having 
reviewed the policy documents again, I find no further information relevant to this complaint 
or regarding cover for major defects within the property. And any matters arising after the 10-
year warranty period lapses would most likely fall outside of the jurisdiction of our service, so 
I cant offer any further comments on this here.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Hs comments about the scope of repairs, and the requirement 
for a contractor to find a hard edge to replace a section of the flooring. But Mr and Mrs H 
have also said theyd prefer the repair work to be done themselves. So if they do choose to 
do this, NHBCs liability for the claim would end when they make the cash settlement. And 
this would include any provision for alternative accommodation within the policy. Any issues 
about the scope or quality of repair work would then be between Mr and Mrs H and their 
appointed contractor. 
However, if repairs are arranged through NHBC following my final decision, then it would be 
required to do an effective and lasting repair, taking into account the layout of the floor. And 
this would include alternative accommodation if necessary, in line with the policy terms.So having reviewed everything again, I find either option a fair way to resolve this complaint 
for the reasons above, and in addition to the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
 In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs H, NHBC should:
Settle the claim for the kitchen/dining room floor at the reasonable cost to Mr and
Mrs H, subject to receipt of an acceptable quote or;
Arrange for repairs to be done to the kitchen/dining room floor at its own
expense;
Pay 50% of the cost of the report Mr and Mrs H submitted, totalling £327.50;
Pay 8% simple interest on this sum, from the date the report was completed, to
the date of settlement;
Pay Mr and Mrs H £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National House-Building Council must put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman