DRN-4074590
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, who Ill call VWFS.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I dont think VWFS have been unreasonable here and Im 
not asking them to take any further action.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. This was a brand new car 
and I don think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults when supplied or to 
experience many faults in the first few years of driving.
Mr C took receipt of the car in April 2021, and it needed two suspension mounts replacing in 
January 2022 and a software update to resolve a front assist warning light in April 2022.
VWFS provided some redress for those issues. In June 2022 they offered £100 for the loss 
of enjoyment Mr C had experienced, £200 in respect of the number of times hed had to take 
the car to the garage, and a further £213.60 representing 10% of finance instalments over 
six months, in respect of the inconvenience Mr C had experienced. Mr C accepted that 
redress, so Ill not consider the issues prior to June 2022 as I think they are resolved.
Mr C did reserve the right to have complaints about the warning lights looked at if they didnt 
go away. Hes complained since that the warning lights have persisted, and hes also 
explained that there is a fault with the brakes sticking, and a new fault with the gear selection 
(reported to us in March 2023).
I understand that in November 2022 VWFS offered to allow Mr C to terminate his agreement 
early without penalty. They explained that in those circumstances they would refund a 
proportion of his advance rental for the months hed paid for but hadnt been able to use the 
car. Mr C has explained that he doesnt want to take advantage of that offer as a new vehicle 
would be more expensive. Hes now extended the lease on this car for another year, until 
April 2024. 
I allowed Mr C a little extra time to have the faults he said are now present diagnosed, but 
Ive not been provided with the results of that diagnostic, and I dont think its fair to expect 
VWFS to wait any longer for this complaint to be resolved. Theyve been waiting a long time 
for the faults Mr C says are present on the car to be looked at and Im not persuaded the 
significant delays in getting the faults identified couldnt have been mitigated by Mr C. 
So, I dont think Ive been provided with evidence that there are currently faults with the car 
that have been present, or developing, since the car was supplied to him. 
Ultimately, I think the redress VWFS have offered is reasonable and Im not asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman