DRN-3690758
The complaint
Miss A has complained about customer service by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Birmingham Midshires Mortgages and referred to here as BM). To settle the complaint, 
Miss A has asked BM to compensate her for the time she spent trying to get through to BM 
on the telephone, as well as additional interest paid on her mortgage through not being able 
to pay a lump sum off her mortgage.
What happened
Miss A has a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with BM which is currently on a fixed rate, with an 
early repayment charge (ERC) applying until 30 September 2023 if the mortgage is repaid in 
full or in part before that date. The mortgage offer says:
 Sometimes you may be offered an opportunity to make regular or lump-sum 
overpayments without making an early repayment charge. These offers change from 
time to time. You should ask for details of any current offers before you start making 
overpayments. Any offers are only a concession and may be changed or withdrawn 
at any time
The complaint is about the difficulties Miss A had in contacting BM over a period of about 
two weeks beginning on 28 October 2021, when she tried to telephone BM to make an 
overpayment on her mortgage. Miss A wanted to check what (if any) offers were available 
before she could decide what to do.
Miss A has set out in some detail the problems she had trying to speak to someone at BM, 
and her dissatisfaction and concern in relation to calls she received from BM, when Miss A 
was asked for security information at a time when she was in a public place.
Miss A complained to BM , which issued its final response letter on 9 November 2021, 
explaining that it had gone over to a new phone system, which regrettably had resulted in 
longer waiting times for customers. BM offered to compensate Miss A for the cost of phone 
calls.
Ms A raised her complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened. She noted BM had apologise for the long call wait times, but didnt think 
BM needed to do anything further.
Miss A didnt accept the investigators findings. She clarified that her complaint wasnt just 
about her dissatisfaction with the waiting times, but was that shed not been able to find out if 
there were any concessions that would have allowed her to make an overpayment without 
incurring an ERC. As a result, Miss A says she may have missed an opportunity to save 
interest.
Miss A continued to pursue this with BM, and received a second final response letter in May 
2022. BM explained that Miss A was able to overpay up to 10% of the mortgage balance 
each year (running from 1 January to 31 December) without incurring an ERC. Although 
concessions were sometimes available, as at May 2022, BM wasnt offering any other 
concession.
Provisional decision of 12 August 2022
I issued a provisional decision, in which I reached the following conclusions.
This complaint isnt just about the call waiting times. The main point of concern for 
Miss A is this: Miss A says that, because she wasnt able to get through to BM on 
28 October 2021, she wasnt able to find out if any concessions were available over 
and above the 10% annual allowance that would have enabled her to pay a lump 
sum of £70,000 off her mortgage without incurring an ERC. As a result, Miss A 
doesnt know if shes lost out on an opportunity to reduce her mortgage balance 
without paying this charge, and, as a result, paying less interest on the mortgage.
BM didnt originally acknowledge this complaint in its original final response, 
concentrating instead on the problems with its phone system. But in May 2022 BM 
issued a final response after Miss A continued to press BM for a response.  
Miss A told BM she wanted to overpay £70,000. BM said that it didnt currently have 
an offer available where customers can overpay more than 10% of the balance 
without incurring an ERC. But BM didnt say whether or not this had been available 
on 28 October 2021. Because this is a continuation of the same issue Ms A had 
raised in her first complaint (and which BM didnt properly address at the time), I think 
its appropriate for me to look at this issue here rather than setting up a separate 
complaint.
I think that if Miss A had been able to get through to BM on 28 October 2021 shed 
have been told whether or not a concession was in place. Miss A would then have 
known whether or not shed be able to overpay more than 10% of the balance with 
no ERC. But, as BM has explained, due to issues with its call system, Miss A wasnt 
able to speak to anyone about this.
However, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied that Miss A would still have been able to 
overpay up to 10% of the balance if shed wanted to, and could have done this by 
online transfer, whether or not shed been able to speak to anyone on 28 October 
2021. So Miss A could have taken steps to mitigate her position by reducing the 
balance by up to 10%, thus reducing the interest on the mortgage, even though she 
might have wanted to overpay by £70,000.
I also think that BMs customer service fell short, not only in relation to call waiting 
times, but also in BM failing to take Miss As concerns about security into 
consideration.  Miss A has explained that she told BM she was in a public place, yet 
was asked for security information which she wasnt comfortable about providing 
within earshot of strangers. I think this was reasonable and BM should have been 
more sensitive to Miss As concerns about this.
BM offered to reimburse Miss A for the cost of her phone calls when she was on hold 
for extended periods. Miss A has explained that she has an all inclusive phone 
package, and so isnt charged for individual calls. So whilst BMs offer might seem 
reasonable, it doesnt, in fact, compensate Miss A at all  either for the time Miss A 
wasted trying to speak to someone at BM or for the distress and inconvenience in 
relation to the security issues that Ive identified above.
To put things right, I thought BM should do the following:Overpayment: I require BM to confirm whether or not any concession was in place 
to allow overpayments above 10% with no ERC on 28 October 2021. 
If such a concession had been available on that date, Miss A should now be allowed 
to make a lump sum payment, less 10% of the mortgage balance as it stood on 
28 October 2021 (which Miss A could have paid on that date in any event without 
reference to BM), such lump sum payment to be backdated to 28 October 2021 with 
interest adjusted as a result.
Customer service: For the customer service issues I have detailed above, I require 
BM to pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Responses to the provisional decision
Miss A hasnt responded, despite a reminder from the investigator, and the deadline set in 
the provisional decision having passed.
BM confirmed that there was no concession in place over and above the annual 10% 
allowance that would have enabled Miss A to make a capital reduction to the mortgage 
without incurring an ERC. BM also confirmed that at no time in the period from October 2021 
to date has there been any concession or offers in relation to overpayments, so Miss A 
hasnt missed out on any additional allowances.
BM confirmed that it agreed to put Miss A back in the position shed have been in if shed 
made the available 10% overpayment on 28 October 2021; in other words, if Miss A made a 
10% overpayment, it would be backdated as if shed made it on 28 October 2021 with the 
necessary interest adjustment. 
BM also agreed to pay £150 for customer service issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional 
decision. Im satisfied that there was no additional concession available in October 2021, nor 
at any time since. In the circumstances, Miss A hasnt lost an opportunity to pay more than 
the allowable 10% reduction without incurring an ERC. Miss A is, of course, free to pay more 
than the annual 10% allowance if she wants to, but this will incur an ERC.
BM has agreed to put Miss A back in the position shed have been in if shed been able to 
speak to someone on 28 October 2021. As I said in my provisional decision, Miss A could 
have made a 10% overpayment at that time online, so I think the banks offer is fair and 
reasonable. I also do not intend to make any changes to my award for distress and 
inconvenience.Putting things right
Miss A is now able to make a 10% overpayment on her mortgage which BM has agreed to 
backdate to 28 October 2021.  If Miss A wants to do this, she must do so before 28 October 
2022.
I also direct BM to pay Miss A £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience arising 
from customer service issues.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires Mortgages to settle the complaint as directed 
above. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman