DRN-3941974
The complaint
Ms M complains about Embark Services Limiteds (Embarks) administration of her Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). She has raised concerns about Embarks failure to keep 
her updated in respect of her SIPP and the lack of annual statements. Ms M has also told us 
that shes unhappy Embark has charged her fees for the management of her pension but 
has failed to manage her funds properly. 
What happened
Ms M transferred her existing pension to a SIPP and invested in a few corporate bonds on 
the advice of her then financial adviser. The SIPP was established with Avalon Investment 
Services Limited (Avalon). Avalon subsequently went into administration. Embark took over 
administration of Ms Ms SIPP but it didnt take responsibility for anything that happened in 
respect of the SIPP prior to it taking over. 
After Embark took over it didnt send Ms M annual statements for her SIPP for a couple of 
years. 
It has since sent the missing annual statements and a number of letters confirming the 
current position of Ms Ms SIPP and her options going forward. 
For example, on 30 December 2019, Embark wrote to Ms M explaining that Avalon was 
responsible for the establishment of the SIPP, confirmed that advice had been provided by 
Bank House (Ms Ms then financial adviser) and encouraged her to seek advice in respect of 
her options. Amongst other things it said: 
Your Avalon Freedom SIPP was originally provided and administered by Avalon 
Investment Services Limited (AISL) until 23 February 2016, when AISL went into 
administration. The administration proceedings were overseen by KPMG, until AISL 
was dissolved on 4 August 2018. Embark Investment Services Ltd (EISL) took over 
as the operator of your SIPP from 26 February 2016 but are not responsible for 
liabilities accrued whilst AISL operated your SIPP. Rowanmoor Personal Pension 
Limited (RPPL) are administering your SIPP on behalf of EISL and both are part of 
Embark Group Limited.
As you will be aware, your SIPP is invested in the Allenbrooke plc 6% 2024 Bond, 
Malborough Equity plc 8% 2024 Bond and Allenby Commercial Property plc 7% 2024 
Bond (the bonds), which you were advised to invest in by the financial adviser 
appointed to your SIPP when it was established with AISL. That financial adviser was 
Bank House Investment Management Limited (trading as Mountbatten Wealth).
Background to the complaint 
Ms M raised a complaint about Embark. Embark issued a final response letter, it accepted 
that it hadnt provided Ms M with annual statements for 2016 and 2017. It offered her £100 
compensation for this and provided Ms M with the missing statements. 
Unhappy with its response, Ms M referred her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Ms Ms complaint and concluded that the offer Embark made was fair under the 
circumstances. He also highlighted that Ms M may be able to make a claim to the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the advice she received to take out the SIPP 
and invest in the manner that she did. The investigator obtained some information about 
Ms Ms then current position and options from Embark. In summary Embark told us that: 
At the time Ms M held around £9,000 in cash in her SIPP.
All of the bonds held within her SIPP were valued at nil. 
Ms M could not withdraw the cash balance from her SIPP as she was under 55 but 
she could transfer it to another pension. 
Embark would not require that Ms M keep a £2,000 buffer to cover ongoing fees. 
The SIPP would have to remain open until the position with the investments is settled 
but it wouldnt charge any ongoing fees. 
A transfer free of £300 plus VAT would apply. 
Ms M didnt accept the offer, she said that her complaint wasnt just that Embark had failed 
to provide her with statements but also that it had charged her fees for the management of 
her fund but had failed to manage it. 
The investigator explained why this didnt change his view of Ms Ms complaint. Because 
agreement couldnt be reached, this case was passed to me for review. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought that Embarks offer was fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances, I confirmed that I would consider any further 
submissions either party wished to make as long as I received them by 21 February 2023. 
Embark didnt respond. Ms M responded explaining that the provisional decision was along 
the lines she expected. She also said that she would need to seek advice on transferring 
funds from her SIPP and that she doesnt think that the ongoing fee of £300 is justified under 
the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress 
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this. 
My findings remain as set out in my provisional decision; Ive largely reiterated these below. 
Adding to these only to address the points Ms M raised in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Relevant considerationsWhen considering whats fair and reasonable in this complaint I consider the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles for Business to be of particular relevance.
The Principles for Businesses (PRIN) which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
(PRIN 1.1.2G  at the relevant date). 
In addition, in British Bankers Association, R (on the application of) v The Financial Services 
Authority & Anon (2011) EWHC 999 (20 April 2011) Ousely J said: 
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules (para 
77). 
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirements they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules 
(para 162).
I consider Principle 6 to be of particular relevance: 
Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly 
In September 2009 the FSA published a thematic review report on SIPPs which stated: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are 
obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients 
The context that these comments were made in was in relation to the quality of the business 
that a SIPP operator accepts. I understand that in this complaint Embark isnt responsible for 
the acceptance of Ms Ms business, but its clear from the regulators comments that SIPP 
operators were obliged to ensure fair treatment of their customers.
Ive carefully considered Embarks obligation to treat its customers (and specifically Ms M) 
fairly when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Embark is not the business that was responsible for advising Ms M in relation to her SIPP 
and investments in the first place. I note Ms M appears to have accepted that this is the 
case. By acquiring the business book of Avalon, Embark didnt accept any liability for any 
acts by Avalon, in administering her SIPP, or any advisors who initially advised Ms M. In these circumstances, Im satisfied that Embark cant be held responsible for the charges 
applied to Ms Ms pension, the advice that was provided to Ms M or how the SIPP was 
administered before it acquired the SIPP. However, its responsible for what happened 
thereafter.
Overall, I think that Embarks offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. I 
understand that this will come as a disappointment to Ms M, but Im not persuaded that it 
should fairly and reasonably do anything further under the circumstances. 
As confirmed in the background to this complaint Embark has told us that: 
The offer of £100 compensation for failing to send two annual statements is still 
open. 
It will allow Ms M to transfer the remaining cash held in her SIPP and will not require 
her to keep a £2,000 cash buffer in her SIPP. 
The SIPP will need to remain open but Embark will not charge Ms M ongoing 
administration fees until such time as the position with her investments can be 
resolved. 
Ms M would need to pay a transfer fee and Embark will not be able to pay the funds 
to Ms M directly as she is still under age 55. 
Given Embarks limited responsibility for the position Ms Ms pension is in, I think the above 
is fair. This, in summary, is because: 
Embark isnt the firm responsible for the establishment of the SIPP or for accepting 
the underlying investments. 
I think £100 is fair compensation for Embarks failure to send two consecutive annual 
statements. 
Its not unreasonable that Embark charged Ms M some fees for the administration of 
her SIPP. Ms Ms investments are now valued at nil but I dont think this is as a result 
of mismanagement on Embarks part. 
Allowing Ms M to transfer all of the cash remaining in her SIPP and waiving any 
further ongoing fees until the position with the investment can be resolved should 
allow Ms M to retain as much of the remaining value of the pension as possible. 
I understand that Ms M may wish to seek advice on transferring the cash balance of her 
SIPP. Deciding what to do with ones pension can be a complex matter and it is, of course, 
open to Ms M to seek advice on this. 
Ms M remains unhappy with the level of fees being applied by Embark. If Ms M moves her 
cash balance away and all that remains in the SIPP are the illiquid assets, in accordance 
with its offer, Embark wont charge any further fees until the position with the investments 
can be resolved. So, Ms M will incur the transfer fee of £300 plus VAT but shouldnt need to 
incur any ongoing fees, if she decides to take this route. The transfer of funds from a 
pension does involve administrative work, so I dont think its unreasonable for Embark to 
charge a fee for this. 
As highlighted initially by the investigator and then in my provisional decision, Ms M may be 
able to make a claim to the FSCS about the advice she received to transfer her existing 
pensions to a SIPP and invest in the bonds that now hold no value. She may also be able to 
make a claim to the FSCS about her original SIPP provider, Avalon, as it also went into 
default. I note from Ms Ms submissions that she hasnt felt up to submitting a claim to the 
FSCS. Its clear that this has been a stressful time for Ms M and I sympathise with her position. I 
hope she understands that, whilst I make no further award, this is not because I 
underestimate the seriousness of the situation  in respect of her pension. Rather, its 
because Im not persuaded that Embark is responsible for what has gone wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that Embark Services Limiteds offer is 
fair. I direct Embark Services Limited to pay to Ms M £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman