DRN-4108324
The complaint
Mr W says Aviva Life & Pension UK Limited wouldnt allow him to take his pension benefits 
in the way he wanted from his existing pension. And that it was responsible for him receiving 
a reduced transfer value and therefore less tax-free cash (TFC) than he had expected.
What happened
I am grateful to the respondent for explaining that different entities have been involved with 
Mr Ws case. Nonetheless, that isnt a matter that unnecessarily complicates his journey. I 
say this because both firms are closely connected. And Aviva Life & Pension UK Limited has 
accepted responsibility for the matters which are at the heart of his complaint. For simplicity, 
Ill refer to Aviva throughout my decision.
From listening to the phone conversations Mr W has had with this Service, I understand that 
he was interested in taking tax-free cash (TFC) from his personal pensions. He contacted 
Aviva in June 2022 about a month prior to turning 55.
Theres now broad agreement between the parties about what happened. The following 
abridged chronology of events recorded by the firm is instructive:
9/2/2022  Yearly statement sent to [Mr W] fund value on 30 January 2022 £306,389.38.
21/3/2022  [Notification sent to Mr W]. Estimated pension fund at 9 July 2022 £302,968.82.
16/5/2022  non-contact letter sent to [Mr W] Estimated pension fund valued on 9 July 
2032 £281,610.90.
9/6/2022  Mr W called to take 25% TFC.
11/6/2022  Premium expiry letter sent to Mr W - As part of our commitment to keeping 
customers informed we wanted to let you know that the premium payable on your plan is 
due to stop. When the plan started, you agreed to pay the premium for a set period of time. 
In line with the policy conditions, although the premiums are due to stop, the policy will 
continue to provide cover until the term of the policy expires on 9 July 2042.
17/6/2022  Transfer claim set up. Origo request received.
20/6/2022 - Please check fund drop is more than 5%
21/6/2022 - Fund drop is more than 5% hence email sent to [individual/team at Aviva] and 
awaiting reply. Previous Value Current value Fund drop % Need to callYes.
21/6/2022 -Thank you for contacting us regarding the transfer of Mr W's pension policy. We 
have received all our requirements to transfer the funds. However the approximate transfer 
value mentioned on Origo options does not add up to the value of policies requested. As per 
Origo options the requested approximate transfer value for policiesare 288,451.41 and we 
have the current transfer value as 267,322.16 dated 17/06/2022.
There is a fund drop of 7.32%. The transfer amount is not guaranteed, as this dependent on 
the market performance of the funds invested. You could receive more or less than the 
amount shown. Could you please check with Policyholder and confirm whether he is happy 
to proceed with the transfer. Once we receive the confirmation on this we will be in a position 
to deal with this request.
21/6/2022  Email from XXX myinvestmentportfolio@aviva.com - The customer is happy to 
go ahead with this based on the drop.
23/6//2022 - Transfer date:23/06/2022Transfer value dated 17/06/2022: 267,322.16.
24/6/2022  Transfer of pension benefits letter sent to PH. We are pleased to confirm that 
we have made a payment of £269,732.92 for a transfer of pension benefits from the above 
plans to Aviva...
30/6/2022  Call - Customer called wanting to discuss the loss in funds since he transferred 
his policies into a SIPP. Managed by different dept so gave telephone number.
1/7/2022  Complaint logged by Aviva. The customer is unhappy with the upgrade process. 
He feels he has been scammed as the fund value dropped so much and he says he was not 
told this could happen. He is also cross this was the only option to withdraw his money. 
Frustrated, angry and has asked about how to escalate the complaint higher.
Aviva responded to Mr Ws complaint on 1 September 2022. It addressed his main concerns 
in the following terms:
You're unhappy your chosen retirement option wasn't available directly through your 
policies. Your policies started in 1989 & 1994, retirement options were limited to an annuity 
or in some cases as a cash lump sum. In 2015, the government introduced more retirement 
options, including drawdown and partial lump sums. Due to the terms and conditions of the 
older contracts, it wasn't possible to make the options available to all plans. For the 
restricted policies, the way around this is to transfer to a new pension plan
Your fund value dropped in between January 2022 and the date of transfer. Your policies 
were invested in the Aviva Pension Investment Trust Portfolio T LMP fund. Investment funds 
are linked to the stock market and the value will fluctuate on a daily basis. You had the 
option of switching to alternative funds. We'd always recommend seeking independent 
financial advice before making any changes. We issue statements each year as a reminder 
to review your policy and make any necessary changes. Within the fund value section, it 
states "Please remember the value of the funds can go up or down."
Your policies had both Accumulation and Capital units. On 30 January 2022 the 
Accumulation unit price was 158.662 and the Capital units were 24.34. On the date of 
transfer, the Accumulation units had an individual price of 139.143 and the Capital units 
were 21.346. The drop in unit price is the reason your fund value dropped over this time 
period.
Mr W brought his complaint to this Service. An Investigator upheld his case. He found that 
he wouldve needed to switch to another pension in order to access his benefits. But he also 
discovered that although Aviva had initially asserted it had informed him the transfer value 
had fallen significantly between its last communication and his transfer request, and 
enquired whether he still wished to proceed, as recorded in its chronology of events, its now 
confirmed this didnt happen.
After speaking to Mr W the Investigator said:
Because of this Mr W wasnt given an opportunity to make a fully informed decision, and 
based on discussions I have had with him I am of the opinion that had he been asked he 
would have delayed the transfer until the pension performance had recovered.
Aviva disagreed with the Investigators conclusion. It said a letter it had sent him on 24 June, 
two weeks before his birthday, shouldve put him on notice of the fund value. But he still 
went ahead with the transaction.As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ws complaint has been 
passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision last month. Ive considered 
the further submissions provided by both parties in arriving at this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Aviva for Mr W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Considering Mr Ws first complaint point about the lack of flexibility to access his pension 
benefits through his then existing personal pensions. I understand his frustration here, but I 
would note that pension freedoms were provided under enabling legislation only. That 
means providers didnt have to offer any further flexibility by law if the rules of the 
consumers policy didnt already allow an option such as drawdown. Firms werent 
compelled to change existing schemes because the nature of pension contracts requires 
long-term asset and liability planning.
With regard to Mr Ws disappointment at the transfer value of his pension. Hes focussed in 
his submissions on the difference in value between his pension in February 2022, when it 
was around £306,000, and the value he was informed about at the end of June 2022 of 
about £270,000.
The request to move Mr Ws pension was made through the firms Origo system on 17 June 
2022. This recorded the value of his fund as £288,500. But the firm spotted his pot had 
further eroded in value and was now worth around £267,300. Because the value had fallen 
by over 5% it shouldve contacted him to enquire whether he still wished to proceed.Aviva accepts when Mr W initiated the transfer, it shouldve checked with him that he still 
wanted to proceed given the fall in the value of his fund. While it recorded this had been 
done and that hed agreed to continue, this wasnt true. This is a serious failing.
In rejecting the Investigators suggested approach on redress, Aviva said:
I have attached a letter that was sent to the customer on 24 June, confirming the transfer of 
his funds to our SIPP. This confirmed the value of the plan at the time. This was two weeks 
prior to Mr Ws 55th birthday. The funds were received into the plan on 29 June, though it 
would not be until 9 July that any monies could be withdrawn
As this letter was sent, and there was sufficient time to receive it, I believe the customer 
was aware of the drop before his 55th birthday, and well before our delay. Since the funds 
were received, the plan had increased in the SIPP from received date, to birthday, to paid 
date, and now to today. I wouldnt look to cover any difference before his 55th, as this would 
never have been accessible, though I fully agree that we should have contacted to see if the 
customer wanted to proceed.
The problem for Aviva is that its own chronology of events shows that Mr W made contact 
with it on 30 June 2022 and 1 July 2022 to express his concern about his fund value. But I 
cant see that even at this stage it sought to put a hold on the transaction.
So, all that remains is for me to decide how to put matters right for Mr W.
Putting things right
The purpose of redress is to put Mr W back into the position hed have been in now, or as 
reasonably close to that as possible, had it not been for Avivas failings.
But redress isnt always a scientific matter. The proposal I make to assess any financial 
detriment wont be perfectly satisfactory to either party. Im conscious of the need to avoid 
the benefit of hindsight. However, I believe my proposals are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr W has said if hed been informed about the reduced value of his pension pot prior to it 
being switched he wouldnt have proceeded. I can understand why he says this, but Im not 
persuaded he wouldve waited for his funds to recover their January 2022 value.
I say this because Ive listened to the phone conversations Mr W has had with this Service. 
He was interested in taking tax-free cash from his personal pensions when he reached 55. 
He mentioned he had a serious health condition and this was why he wanted early access to 
some of his benefits.
While its possible he wouldve held off from making the switch for some months to see how 
markets moved, I think its unlikely hed have decided to wait too much longer. Hed have no 
way of knowing for sure whether the fund value was likely to increase or decrease, and by 
how much, in the coming months and years.
The fund value he received in July 2022 was £272,900 and he took 25% as TFC. I note by 
January 2023 the equivalent value of his funds wouldve been £274,400. So, thats an 
increase of £1,500, or 0.55% in just over 5 months. In terms of TFC that equates to an 
additional £375.
I also have to consider Mr W has had the benefit of the £68,225 TFC to use as he wished 
since July 2022. Its difficult to put a value on the opportunity thats given him or the value hes derived. But hes confirmed the money was used to pay off his mortgage and to give his 
wife some security.
We do know inflation is currently running at levels not seen for over 35 years. For example, 
the consumer prices index in February 2023 was around 10.4%. So, we can say the value of 
a similar payment of TFC now and in the short run would be less in terms of purchasing 
power than what he received last year.
Turning to the residual 75% of Mr Ws pension pot. This wouldve been invested according to 
his wishes from July 2022. This element of his pension mayve fared better or worse than if 
the money had remained in his former pension plans. Ive not yet seen evidence of the 
difference in performance between his two arrangements.
Based on the available evidence, I think its more likely than not Mr W hasnt suffered 
financial detriment as a result of Avivas failings.
Finally, when Im considering a complaint like Mr Ws I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of a firms actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited recorded it had given Mr W the opportunity to withdraw 
from the transaction in light of his falling fund value. He wasnt given that opportunity to 
make a fully informed decision. And so understandably he feels frustrated, upset and 
uncertain about what impact this has had. Its caused him to doubt the validity of the 
information hes been provided. And hes suffered a loss of expectation. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should therefore pay Mr W £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him (this is in addition to the £100 I understand it has already 
paid him for the delay in the transaction).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint and require Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to put matters right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman