DRN-3458040
The complaint
Mr B complains about the damage charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
when he voluntarily terminated his car finance agreement. 
What happened
In September 2017, Mr B entered into a 48 month personal contract purchase (PCP) 
agreement for a new car. The car cost around £37,000 and he was required to pay monthly 
instalments of £510 followed by an optional final payment of £16,825. He was permitted to 
drive 12,000 miles per year of the agreement. 
In January 2021, Mr B voluntarily terminated (VT) the agreement. The car was returned and 
it was inspected in line with MBFS returns process. Damage was found to the car and Mr B 
was told he was required to pay £1,812.
Mr B complained. In summary, he said he had been a loyal customer of MBFS, he had part 
exchanged cars in the past and he intended to do the same in this case but because he had 
to self isolate due to the pandemic, he wasnt able to do so meaning he had no alternative 
but to VT as he had ordered another car. He said when the car was collected, the agent 
advised the damage was fair wear and tear. He also complained that a designer pair of 
glasses were left in the car which were never returned. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr B referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They believed MBFS had acted reasonably when the 
car was returned and the damage charges were fairly applied. Mr B disagreed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The terms of the agreement say in the event the car is returned it must adhere to MBFS 
vehicle return standards and it would be inspected by a trained technician. It goes on to 
outline these return standards and explains if they arent met, the consumer will pay MBFS 
costs of repairing/refurbishing or the consequent reduction in the sale value of the car as 
compensation. Mr B signed the agreement with these terms in September 2017 so Im 
satisfied he was aware of them. 
MBFS has charged for the following damages:
Bumper front Scratched £210
Bumper rear Scratched £210
Left hand door rear Scratched £210
Right hand door rear Scratched £210
Screen front Scratched £332.50
Wheel left hand front Rim damaged £110
Wheel right hand front Rim damaged £110
Wing right hand front Scratched £210
Total £1,812.50
The bumper, doors and wing
The inspection report says the bumper, two doors and right wing are scratched. MBFS 
return standards say Light surface scratches not through the top coat which can be 
removed by polishing/touch up are acceptable. In this case, having looked at the pictures, I 
can see scratches on these areas of the car which appear to have gone through the top coat 
so Im not convinced they could be removed by a polish or touch up. 
The screen 
MBFSs standards say chips on windscreen, which are less than 5mm, providing they do 
not obscure the driver's line of vision to a maximum of 2 per windscreen (MOT standards) is 
acceptable. Ive looked at the picture from the report, I can see a scratch on the screen and 
based on the measuring tool next to it, it appears to measure more than 5mm in length. 
 
The wheels
The inspection report said the two front wheels were damaged. MBFS returns standards say 
minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the alloy or steel rim edge or wheel lace is 
acceptable. Having looked at the pictures, I can see scuff marks on the wheels concerned 
and I believe they are in excess of 25mm. 
Overall I believe MBFS were entitled to charge for the above damages as they werent 
considered acceptable based on their return standards. Ive seen nothing to show that the 
amounts charged are excessive or unreasonable. 
In terms of MBFS chasing Mr B for payment, I know he found this distressing as he disputed 
the damage charges but from my understanding once the complaint was referred to our 
service, collection activity was placed on hold while we looked into matters, I find this to be 
reasonable. 
Other 
I understand Mr B has had previous agreements with MBFS of which he usually part 
exchanged the cars. He considers himself a loyal customer of MBFS. According to him he 
has never incurred damage charges previously and this car was returned in the same 
condition as the others. While I accept he may not have been charged for damages for 
previous agreements, I can only consider what has happened in this one and whether or not 
MBFS has acted fairly. Having done so, I believe they have. I also understand it was Mr Bs 
intention to part exchange this car but due to him needing to self isolate due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, he wasnt in a position to do so, therefore he VTd instead. I recognise this 
wouldve been a difficult period of Mr B but I find it was his decision to VT the agreement, I 
cant hold MBFS responsible for this.
Lastly, I understand Mr B is also unhappy as he states a designer pair of glasses were left in 
the car and he had difficulty contacting the collection agents to retrieve it and it was never returned. Based on the evidence, the collection agents said they checked the car and found 
no such item so I cant say they acted unfairly.
Overall, I find MBFS has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms of the agreement 
so I wont be asking them to remove the charges for damages. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman