DRN-2416413
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as G have complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited incorrectly 
renewed their group medical insurance policy after being told not to. Mr H is representing G 
in this complaint. 
What happened
G took out a policy with AXA in 2013 that renewed annually. AXA said that each year it 
called G and spoke to Mr H to renew the policy. 
When the policy was due to renew on 1 November 2019 AXA sent out the renewal 
paperwork and then called G to confirm the renewal was going ahead. AXA spoke to an 
employees of G who had been authorised to discuss the policy. It seems G and AXA ended 
the call with a different idea about what would happen next. G said they thought theyd told 
AXA not to renew the policy while AXA understood the policy would renew unless it was told 
otherwise. The policy renewed and AXA said it sent the documents confirming this by email 
to G and also to Mr Hs personal address.
In June 2020 G said they were looking through their accounts and noticed that the policy had 
renewed. They were unhappy about this and asked AXA to reduce the amount they were 
paying. When AXA refused they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
AXA had made it clear the policy would renew automatically during the call and G didnt get 
back in touch to say that it shouldnt be. G didnt accept this and said AXA had again 
renewed the policy in November 2020. Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Gs policy say that the policy is renewable on payment of the 
agreed terms. And that if G confirms before the renewal date that they wish to continue the 
policy, then the parties will enter into a new agreement. 
Ive listened to a call between AXA and Gs employee, who was authorised by G to discuss 
the policy. AXA told G that the policy would automatically renew on 1 November 2019. It 
then asked G if they were happy for the policy to renew. Gs employee said they would need 
to confirm this with their manager and asked if they should reply to the renewal email. AXA 
said they could either email or call. 
During this call, I dont think G confirmed they wanted the policy to renew. However, AXA 
made it clear that the policy would automatically renew, and I dont think G told AXA not to 
renew the policy. In knowing that the policy would automatically renew and not indicating 
that it shouldnt, I think G agreed to the renewal going ahead. 
In coming to this conclusion Ive also considered Gs actions after the policy renewed.
AXA sent confirmation of the renewal to Gs email address and Mr Hs personal home 
address, as he was one of the employees covered by the plan. The renewal documents 
gave G the option to cancel the policy within a short period. However, G didnt get in touch to 
say the policy shouldnt have renewed or to request cancellation. Direct debits were taken 
from Gs account each month and it wasnt until June 2020 that G got in touch to say they 
were unhappy with the renewal. I also understand from AXA that there has been claims 
activity on the policy since the renewal and G havent indicated that they took out any 
alternative policy. I also understand that, in their complaint, G havent asked for the policy to 
be cancelled, but instead has asked for a reduction in premium. 
In these circumstances, even if I was to decide, under a strict application of the terms, that G 
hadnt confirmed they wanted the renewal to go ahead, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to require AXA to do anything further in this particular case. Thats because G 
had opportunities to cancel the policy if they felt it had renewed incorrectly, and because 
AXA has indicated there has been claims activity on the policy. 
In his response to our investigator Mr H indicated that AXA has renewed the policy again 
incorrectly in 2020. However, I cant comment on that in this decision and G would need to 
complain to AXA about that renewal separately. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome G was hoping for but Im not going to uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman