DRN-3257879
The complaint
Mr S complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLC (DGI) who declined his claim 
under his gadget insurance. 
What happened
Mr S reported a fault with two of his game controllers. One controller was replaced but DGI 
said that the other controller had been maliciously damaged. It believed that Mr S had 
repeatedly stabbed the controller damaging the mainboard. It further said that the damage 
could only have been done by the controller being opened and a warranty seal being 
removed. So, it refused to repair the controller and returned it.
Mr S contacted DGI and told them that he nor his family caused the damage and suggested 
that the damage had been caused when the controllers had been previously sent in for 
repair, around two years earlier.
Mr S said that the previous repairer must have broken the manufacturers seal when it was 
repaired. Mr S complained that the seals werent replaced with a manufacturers seal. 
DGI told Mr S that he had 30 days from the previous repair to notify it of any issues with the 
controller. But, as he hadnt done so, it assumed that the controller was in good working 
order. 
In its final response, DGI said that the repairers place a new seal to show that there hadnt 
been an unauthorised repair. DGI believed that Mr S had removed those seals and so 
caused malicious damage which was not allowed under the policy terms. So, his claim 
remained declined. 
DGI gave Mr S his referral rights and he referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought that it shouldnt be upheld. She said that 
she was unable to conclude how the damage to the controller occurred. But as DGI had 
provided evidence that the seals had been removed and Mr S had accepted that he had 
removed the seals, the removal of the seals amounted to malicious damage. She concluded 
that DGI had fairly declined the claim. 
DGI accepted the view, Mr S did not. He said that he had been told by either DGI or its 
repairers to remove the seals. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mr S will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this is 
fair.  
Mr S held a gadget insurance policy with DGI since 2018. In 2019 he sent the controllers for 
a repair. That repair was not the same as the repair that forms the basis of this complaint. 
But DGI provided evidence of photographs that Mr S had taken, to show that the warranty 
seals in the unit had been removed.  
DGI said that the removal of the seals amounted to malicious damage and the policy does 
not provide cover for items that have been maliciously damaged: 10. What is not covered
c. The Protect Policy will not provide any services or pay for any claims or impairment to
your equipments functionality, caused by: ii. deliberate or malicious damage.
The main issue of Mr S complaint is whether he maliciously caused damage to the 
controllers. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to 
respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. 
Mr S was asked if he had removed the seals. He accepted that he had removed the seals 
with his fingers but hadnt caused the more extensive damage. 
Although the policy doesnt define what can be considered to be malicious damage, DGI has 
confirmed that if a policyholder removes the warranty seals, this amounts to tampering of the 
unit. And it would consider this malicious damage. 
Mr S said that he was told by DGI or its agents to remove the seals. But I am not persuaded 
by this and Ill explain why. Ive listened to several calls between Mr S and DGI. And during 
those calls, I can find no instruction given by DGI to Mr S that he ought to remove the seals. 
Although DGI hasnt provided any call records between Mr S and its agents, I dont think this 
makes a difference as, it was Mr S in a call to DGI who mentioned that the reason for his call 
was that he had noticed holes in the seals. He goes on to explain that he had lifted the seals 
to see the holes. So, I think that it was unlikely that Mr S was given instruction to remove the 
seals. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think that DGI acted unfairly in declining Mr S 
claim. I think that on his admission, he had maliciously damaged the controller. And I think 
that DGI fairly declined his claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. So, although I 
understand that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking DGI to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman