DRN-1623136
The complaint
Mr W complains that Caxton FX Ltd (Caxton) didn't automatically renew his card or send 
him a reminder that it was about to expire. As a result of this, the card expired while Mr W 
was abroad, and he had to use other cards to access emergency funds while he waited for 
an emergency card to be sent to him, which took longer than it should have done.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Caxton has acknowledged that Mr Ws card was not automatically renewed, and he 
wasnt sent a reminder to renew it. It has explained that this was due to the fact the 
card was an emergency card that Mr W had been sent during a previous trip. But this 
isnt made clear in the account terms and conditions and Mr W wasnt told that he 
wouldnt receive a reminder. So, I think Caxton could have provided clearer 
information to Mr W when it sent him the original emergency card.
 
While I think Caxton could have been clearer with Mr W, it was ultimately Mr Ws 
responsibility to check the expiry date on the card, particularly before travelling and to 
make sure his card would be valid for the entirety of his trip.
 
Mr W was sent an emergency card, but this took an unusually long time to be 
delivered, which seems to be the result of an issue with the courier used. Caxton 
refunded the cost of the emergency card in recognition of the delay, which I think is 
fair in the circumstances.
 
Caxton has also offered to reimburse Mr W for any charges he incurred as a result of 
having to use another card. As I think it was Mr Ws responsibility to check the expiry 
date of the card, I think this offer is fair in the circumstances. I understand Mr W 
hasnt provided Caxton with any evidence of these losses, but Caxton remains willing 
to consider these.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ws frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman