DRN-3583382
The complaint
Mrs H complained that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical were not 
providing the service she thought they ought to.
What happened
Mrs H referred complaints about two pension plans to this service. One of these plans is 
provided and administered by Scottish Widows trading as Clerical Medical. The other is 
provided and administered by another provider who is part of the same overall financial 
group but is a separate entity. 
Mrs H has often copied a number of entities within this overall financial group into emails to 
express her unhappiness with either or both of her pension plans and the service she 
thought she ought to be receiving. I am only considering the complaint about the pension 
plan she holds with Clerical Medical in this decision, and that is how I am referring to the 
plan in this decision.
This plan is a Group Personal Pension plan (GPP). This is a form of personal pension and 
was apparently originally started for her by a previous employer. No contributions have been 
made to this plan since 2003.
Mrs H has told us she worked for a previous employer for over 16 years. For at least some 
of these years her employer provided a financial adviser to advise employees in respect of 
their pension and this included how it was invested. It does not appear to me this was the 
employer involved in this, her Clerical Medical pension plan. Even if there was a link, under a 
different name, this would not impact this decision.
Around the summer of 2020 Mrs H was made redundant and she has told us how upsetting 
and difficult she has found this. When she stopped working for her employer, she no longer 
had access to the financial adviser provided by her employer.
In September 2021 Mrs H contacted Clerical Medical by email and said she wanted to view 
her pension online, but she did not have a log in and wanted to know if they could help and 
she said she also wanted to know about moving her Clerical Medical plan into another 
pension and vice versa. The next day she emailed Clerical Medical again providing her 
pension plans reference number so Clerical Medical could locate her plan and refer it to her 
queries.
Mrs H went on to email Clerical Medical about her queries and further matters on 10, 12 and 
13 October 2021. Clerical Medical replied on 20 October 2021 and provided information in 
answer to her queries. They also let her know they had seen she wanted to change her 
surname and told her what documents they needed to be able to do this.
On 2 November 2021 Mrs H told Clerical Medical to refer to her other pension plan (the one 
held by a different entity) to confirm her surname. She also said she wanted Clerical Medical 
to complete a financial report for her, to consolidate her two pension arrangements and she 
said the report needed to tell her:
What was going to happen about monies not paid to her by her ex-employer and 
what else was going to be done about her complaint about her other pension plan?
And it needed to include a full financial forecast on both pension plans.
Mrs H also wanted to know about monies she said had not been paid to her (apparently by 
her ex-employer) and a loss she said she had suffered of £14,000. And she said she wanted 
to know when her pension would switch to safe mode. It is clear a number of these issues 
and things she was asking for were and are not relevant to the Clerical Medical plan.
Mrs H emailed Clerical Medical chasing a reply on 5, 11 and 17 November 2021 and started 
copying in this service to emails.
By 18 November 2021 Clerical Medical had updated her name on the plan Mrs H held with 
them. They were also intending to contact Mrs H.
On 23 and 24 November 2021 Clerical Medical tried unsuccessfully to call Mrs H several 
times. Clerical Medicals notes say they left her voicemails several times asking her to call 
them back. On 25 November 2021 Clerical Medical sent an email to Mrs H letting her know 
they were trying to contact her about the complaint she had made and asking her to contact 
them on the number they provided. On 29 November 2021 they tried to contact Mrs H 
unsuccessfully again and sent out an acknowledgement they were still looking into her 
complaint.
On 28 November 2021 Mrs H contacted this service to refer her complaint about the Clerical 
Medical pension plan, as well as her other pension plan. She acknowledged the plans were 
provided by different entities but noted that she considered them to be held within the same 
overall group. Mrs H let us know she had felt somewhat lost since she had lost her job.
On 30 November 2021 Clerical Medical went on to issue their response to Mrs Hs 
complaint. They upheld her complaint as they thought they had taken too long to address the 
queries she had raised in September 2021 and apologised. 
In their letter they confirmed her name had been updated on the plan and acknowledged she 
had wanted proof of this. They also provided information on her pension plan, including the 
name of the plan and how it was invested and what proportion of her pension was invested 
in each fund.
Mrs H continued to copy Clerical Medical into some of her emails to the range of entities with 
whom she holds products within the wider financial group. This included an email in late 
March 2022.
Clerical Medical identified that there were emails referring to concerns about different 
products and entities and not themselves. It was identified by both pension providers that 
this was happening. The other pension provider wrote to Mrs H on 6 April 2022 to identify 
there were two different pension plans she held, and these had different providers. The letter 
explained that because of this and that complaints in respect of both plans had been referred 
to this service, she would receive separate communications in respect of the different 
pension plans.
On the same day Mrs H responded to all the entities twice. In the first one she repeated the 
message sent previously on 2 November 2021. She then resent this message just over 30 
minutes later apparently to all entities, with additional comments added in red.Mrs H again contacted Clerical Medical, potentially also as part of a bulk email to a number 
of entities. In this she repeated the email from 6 April 2022 with the additional comments and 
further quoted transfer values that relate to her other pension plan and not the one held with 
Clerical Medical.
On 9 May 2022 Clerical Medical contacted Mrs H. They again confirmed her plan had been 
updated when it came to her surname. They confirmed this pension plan had not been 
receiving contributions since March 2003. They attached a valuation of her plan which 
included the fund holdings of the plan. This let her know she could switch to different funds 
without any penalty if she sent a written signed instruction on switching funds and they also 
attached a fund switch form, which they let her know could be returned by email. Clerical 
Medical also attached a link where she could find out what funds were available to her and 
further information on their performance. They also let her know that if she wanted to 
transfer this could be done, with the full value available and they enclosed a transfer 
discharge form for Mrs H.
On 12 May 2022, Clerical Medical again emailed Mrs H attached a copy of her 2021 annual 
statement. They explained that because her pension statements were produced for the 
period October to September each year, this meant her 2022 one was not yet available. The 
value of Mrs Hs retirement benefits as of 12 May 2022 was just over £13,816.
On 19 May 2022 Clerical Medical replied to what they had identified as further concerns and 
reviewed the original complaint and all matters since they had replied to her in November 
2021. They said they were continuing to uphold part of her complaint. But they felt there had 
been some delay in responding to everything she had asked about as fully as it could have 
been and said they had arranged to send her a cheque for £150.
In their letter they explained they could not find a full financial analysis including looking into 
the benefits or otherwise of transferring her Clerical Medical pension plan. They explained 
this was not a service they offered, and this was a service provided by a financial adviser 
and if this was something Mrs H wanted, she would need to take financial advice. Clerical 
Medical provided the online link to the service that assists with locating a local financial 
adviser. They also included the key features document for her plan, and various guides on 
the funds available and relevant charges for themselves and also some information in 
respect of her other pension plan provider, so that she could do her own comparison of 
charges.
On 22 May 2022 Mrs H replied to Clerical Medical again copying in a number of different 
entities. She said she wasnt happy as much of the information they had sent her was 
generic and not tailored to her circumstances and it hadnt included information on her 
pension plan which was the one that needed attention and she needed projections and 
advice on.
She said this information ought to have been provided to her when she still had access to a 
free financial adviser via her previous employer, so they could have looked at it for her. She 
said she didnt want a cheque and wanted money paid into her bank account. She repeated 
the list of things she said she wanted with her additions as provided on 6 April 2022.
On 26 May 2022 Clerical Medical replied. They stressed that what she said, seemed to be 
about her other pension plan, which was not provided by them. They explained they were 
providing further information which was about the Clerical Medical plan but explained this 
could also be relevant to her other plan.
When she had been provided with a financial adviser by her employer, they would have 
taken details of her financial position, circumstances, objectives, and expectations as well as assessing her attitude to risk. In this way they would work out what her options were and 
make recommendations. This would include the adviser knowing what options were 
available with Clerical Medical. This was the job of a financial adviser and the process of 
advice.
Clerical Medical went on to set out that neither themselves or the other pension provider 
offer an advised service to Mrs H. Whilst they appreciated she doesnt have her previous 
adviser, they cant and dont do the necessary research to find out her circumstances and 
attitude to risk [that is required to provide advice]. So she is required to provide specific 
instructions on what fund she wants to switch to and cant just refer to a safe or safer fund. 
Neither Clerical Medical, nor the other pension plan provider can interpret what this means 
for her. They noted the need for her to provide specific instructions and that they had 
previously given her fund information and switch forms and contact details. They repeated 
the link to the online link to the service that assists with locating a local financial adviser.
Clerical Medical again confirmed her name had been updated on her plan.
Overall Mrs H continued to be dis-satisfied with what was said. She has tended to 
communicate with us about both pension plans in the same correspondence. Mrs H didnt 
think they offered enough or taken the cost to her of her time and other matters into account. 
She told us she didnt want a cheque and wanted cash paid into her current account. Mrs H 
was also unhappy with a letter being sent by a pension provider as she generally preferred 
email.
Mrs H also continued to stress matters in respect of her other pension plan and repeated 
previous expectations and updated what she wanted. There is continued reference to 
wanting to be moved into the SAFE portfolio. I have never had to pick the investments 
previously just the portfolio so I pick the safe portfolio.
Mrs H also told us the lowest fee shed been given an adviser for her size of investment was 
£4,000-5,000 and she said her compensation needed to be near this sum. She said she 
wanted the services of a government recommended adviser (this to be paid for by her other 
pension provider).
Particularly in respect of the Clerical Medical pension plan she complained she had not yet 
received a hard paper copy of anything to show her surname was updated and she wanted 
something issued with a letterhead so that she could store this in her records as a concluded 
complaint issue.
Investigators view
An Investigator at this service considered Mrs Hs complaint about the Clerical Medical 
pension plan (as well as the complaint about the other pension plan). She thought Clerical 
Medical had acted fairly. She concluded they had addressed queries, apologised where they 
thought they could have done more and had offered enough in their offer of £150. She did 
not think Mrs H has suffered any financial loss attributable to Clerical Medical, nor that Mrs H 
would have sought a financial adviser sooner if things had happened differently.
The Investigator confirmed she had asked Clerical Medical to ensure the payment was made 
to Mrs Hs bank account.
Mrs Hs response to view
Mrs H told us she had been very upset by the Investigators view and did not accept it. She 
thought it had been wrong for the Investigator to reach conclusions that she considered to be unfair assumptions. Mrs H stressed she had repeatedly asked for money to allow her to 
appoint a financial adviser.
For completeness
Following the Investigators view being issued and the matter being referred for an 
Ombudsman, various further submissions and information followed. 
In addition Mrs H repeated she wanted something to show Clerical Medical had updated her 
surname officially. Clerical Medical provided the example of the complaint response letter 
they issued on her complaint in November 2021, which contained her updated surname. It 
does not appear to me this remains in issue.
Mrs H also contacted us on a number of occasions letting us know she had not received the 
payment of £150 into her bank account. Clerical Medical told us they had undertaken various 
investigations all of which confirmed the payment had been made to Mrs Hs bank account 
and they provided confirmation of the account number and date and suggested they would 
need to see Mrs Hs bank statement from around the date to be able to further identify if the 
payment had not been received. This service has not heard from Mrs H since we provided 
this information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to apologise for the delay in providing this decision, due to personal 
circumstances. I would also like to note that I have not included everything provided and said 
in my decision. Im not required to, and I have written a longer decision than I might have 
otherwise done as it appears to me things might not have been as clear as they could be, 
due to two different pension plans being complained about at the same time, which 
ultimately were considered by two different entities as the plan providers. I am only 
considered the complaint about the Clerical Medical plan in this decision.
Having considered everything with care I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint as I think 
Clerical Medical have acted fairly. Ive looked with care at everything provided, and in 
particular the dates and details of Mrs Hs complaints and expectations and what Clerical 
Medical did. I think their payment of £150 was enough.
I appreciate that leaving her long-term employer has felt challenging for Mrs H. This 
employment provided not only a pension plan but also a financial adviser with whom she 
was able to seek advice and recommendations and obviously communicate her objectives 
when it came to investing. 
It doesnt appear to me the Clerical Medical Group Pension Plan is the one that came with 
her previous employer and the adviser it provided. This plan last had contributions made in 
2003 and is of a significantly lower value than the other pension plan.
The main thrust of Mrs Hs complaint has been around wanting Clerical Medical to provide 
various information, such as a personal financial planning and forecasting reports and 
selecting safe investment funds for her plan, which are not things a pension plan provider is 
able to do.
Clerical Medical, as a pension plan provider, can change the name on an account, when 
they had the required information, and I am satisfied they did that here in a timely way.Clerical Medical can also provide information on the value of Mrs Hs plan and how it is 
currently invested. They can also let her know or provide links to sources of information 
when it comes to the terms of her plan and the funds available. It is also not unusual for 
more generic information on the risk profiles of certain fund portfolios (which might contain a 
variety of investments) available to also be provided. But a pension plan providers role is not 
to advise on or select investments. There are rules put in place by the regulator (the 
Financial Conduct Authority) which include setting out who has permission to advice on 
investments and funds to be selected, and providers of pension plans usually have rules 
about how they can accept instructions to make or switch investments.
 
It is usual for this to be provided in what is called an instruction, and usually needs to come 
from the customer or their financial adviser. Im satisfied Clerical Medical provided accurate 
information on this as well as the means by which Mrs H could find out more information and 
act on her own behalf if she chose to.
Clerical Medical cannot choose which of their potentially available investments or portfolios 
might be considered safe for Mrs H, this would need to involve them understanding what 
she meant and intended by saying safe, and what her objectives and circumstances were. A 
safe investment or portfolio is a subjective description.
Ive seen that she identified some portfolios sometimes have descriptions attached that imply 
a degree of collective agreement about whether they are safer or riskier, but even so, to 
select an investment or portfolio for a customer is considered advice, and is a regulated 
activity, which a pension provider, who is not provided an advice service, cannot do.
I have no doubt Mrs H has felt somewhat lost. I accept this from her and from what I have 
seen from the nature of the correspondence. Im very sorry to hear this. It appears to me she 
has been wanting her pension provider to step in and fulfil the role previously played by her 
financial adviser. This includes things such as full and personal financial planning reports 
and forecasts and changing investments and understanding what a client might mean by the 
phrase safe. But they cannot do so, that is not the service they provide. 
It remains a matter for Mrs H if she chooses to appoint a financial adviser to review her 
position. I have seen Mrs H has been provided with the sources of identifying local financial 
advisers, and she will be able to see if she can find someone who has the regulators 
permissions to advise on pensions if that is what she seeks. 
Ive also seen Mrs H has been provided with the details of the free guidance service 
provided by the government that might be able to give her further information or assistance.
I am satisfied that Clerical Medical provided helpful and accurate information to Mrs H and 
generally acted in a timely way or within a time I consider reasonable. I am also satisfied on 
what I have seen that they have paid Mrs H the sum of £150 already. I am not persuaded 
Mrs H has been caused any loss, and certainly not any loss that can be attributed to Clerical 
Medical. I dont require them to do anything further.
I am sorry if my decision is a disappointment for Mrs H, I can see she has felt very strongly 
that she has been let down. I hope this decision provides some assistance in understanding 
that a pension provider is not able to act in the way she has wanted them to act and so 
Clerical Medical have not been ignoring or frustrating her objectives.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint about Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman