DRN-3393706
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs S mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. They complain 
about how interest is charged on the mortgage, and then offset against their savings. Both 
borrowers have brought the complaint, but all our dealings have been with Mr S.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs S and Barclays. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which 
has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs S being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S have an offset mortgage. Thats an arrangement that allows borrowers to 
offset their savings against their mortgage debt; instead of earning credit interest on the 
savings, borrowers pay interest on the difference between their mortgage and savings 
balances. 
Mr and Mrs S have more in savings than they owe on the mortgage. That means they pay 
no mortgage interest at all. however, theyve noticed that when they view their mortgage 
online, it shows interest being added to the balance daily and then removed at the end of 
each month. Mr and Mrs S argue that this is unfair and costs them money.
Barclays rejected the complaint, so Mr and Mrs S brought it to us. Our investigator didnt 
think Barclays had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs S asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions, and the reasons for them are as follows.
Without wishing to sound unkind, it seems to me that this is a largely theoretical complaint. 
Barclays is operating Mr and Mrs S mortgage and savings accounts correctly, so that they 
incur no interest on the mortgage. Interest is charged daily, and offset monthly. To achieve 
that, behind the scenes so to speak, Barclays adds to the starting balance one days 
interest, each day, for a month. It then deducts  by offsetting against the savings - the entire 
months interest in one go on the same day each month. 
I used the term behind the scenes, but this is visible when looking at the mortgage account 
online, and observing it is what has prompted Mr and Mrs S to complain. But Barclays isnt 
doing anything wrong. It has to do that, because borrowers could be adding to, or 
subtracting from, their saving balance every day. Barclays cant know how much interest to 
take off through offsetting until it knows how much savings there has been to offset against. 
So, the behaviour Mr and Mrs S are observing when they look at the mortgage online is 
normal and what Id expect to see.
Mr S says there a loss that he cant quite quantify but it exists nonetheless. I see what he 
means, albeit as I said earlier, its largely theoretical. Ill explain what I mean by that. It 
seems to me that the real issue here is that Mr and Mrs have more in savings that they owe 
on the mortgage. I can see Mr S point of view but in order to eliminate that loss that hes 
trying to quantify, the steps he and Mrs S would need to take are:
start each new month with only an amount equal to the exact mortgage balance in their 
savings;
keep the rest of their savings in another account earning deposit interest;
move an amount each day equal to that days mortgage interest (around £2.28 is 
representative) from their interest-bearing savings to their offset savings, and 
on each months offset date, return the accumulated surplus (around £70 is 
representative) back to the interest-earning account and immediately start the process 
again the next day.
Bearing in mind the interest-bearing account would need to be instant access, a typical rate 
at which a modest balance would attract deposit interest is likely to be in the region of 0.1% 
annually. Its not for me to do the calculation, but even over a year, the deposit interest that 
would accrue from doing this will be minimal. Only Mr and Mrs S can know if the likely return 
is worth the time and effort of doing that.
But this isnt an arrangement I would expect Barclays to operate on their behalf as Im 
satisfied it hasnt done anything wrong in terms of how it has administered the accounts they 
hold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman