DRN-4140680
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly 
pursued the company for a missed loan repayment and that the bank gave it poor service 
when dealing with a Recovery Loan Scheme (RLS) application.
What happened
In September 2020, G successfully applied to Barclays for a £40,000 Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL). 
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
In the initial BBL agreement, repayments were due to begin in October 2021, but a six-
month repayment holiday was agreed, then in February 2022 a capital repayment holiday 
was agreed. Accordingly, capital repayments were due to start in October 2022.
G also approached Barclays from March 2022 onwards about a possible loan of £140,000 
under the RLS, a different government-backed scheme which was aimed at helping small 
and medium sized enterprises gain access to finance to grow and invest. Exchanges 
between the parties continued on and off for over six months, during which the bank 
informally advised G that an RLS application would be unlikely to succeed. In July 2022, 
Barclays paid £100 compensation for some poor service, but confirmed its view about the 
RLS lending and said there had been no bank error in this respect.
In October 2022, Barclays notified G that the first repayment after the capital repayment 
holiday had been missed and that £833.13 was now outstanding. A further capital repayment 
holiday was agreed from November, though the arrears remained.
G complained to Barclays about the banks actions regarding both the BBL and the RLS. 
Unhappy about the response, G referred its complaint to this service. Gs director said that 
Barclays hadnt alerted him that the BBL repayment holiday was ending, as it had previously 
promised to do. He also said he was never given any clear reasoning about the RLS and 
then he was ignored.
Our investigator said he didnt think Barclays should be required to do anything further. He 
gave the following reasons, in summary:
Hed seen evidence that Barclays wrote to G in July 2022 saying the capital 
repayment holiday would shortly be coming to an end.
Even if G hadnt received the letter, the company should have been aware of when 
the capital repayment holiday was ending. G should have either ensured there were 
sufficient funds in its account to cover the October payment or contacted Barclays 
beforehand to agree a further extension
From everything the investigator had seen, the missed BBL repayment was a valid 
debt, so he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong in asking for it to be 
repaid.
From the first detailed conversation about the RLS, Barclays made it clear that it 
didnt think G would be eligible under its conditions. A number of issues were 
mentioned but fundamentally Barclays wasnt sure that the RLS loan would be 
affordable. In addition, one of the lending conditions was for the customer to have 
banked with Barclays for 12 months, but Gs main banking facilities were with 
another bank.
While no formal application had been submitted by G, Barclays had advised 
informally that it was unlikely to be successful. The investigator appreciated that G 
didnt agree, but he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong.
The investigator understood that the RLS is still open and G was free to apply for it 
with Barclays, though the application would be assessed against the lending criteria.
G didnt agree with the investigators findings. Its director made the following points, in 
summary:
He cannot accept that the bank providing a digital version of the letter counts as 
evidence. Whether the reason was Barclays not sending it or it being lost in the post, 
the fact is that G didnt receive it.
A payment holiday is put in place for a considerable amount of time. To say that a 
business owner should remember the end date, among hundreds of more pressing 
matters, is harsh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
The BBL repayment
Its common ground that the capital repayment holiday agreement ended in September 
2022. It had been agreed in April 2022 that the capital repayments would begin in October 
2022. But lack of funds in Gs account in October meant that the first repayment couldnt be 
taken. 
The repayment was due and it wasnt paid. G says that it didnt make funds available 
because it hadnt received a reminder. But I dont think that was the banks fault. Having 
seen the copy supplied by Barclays, Im satisfied on balance that the bank sent a reminder 
letter. Even if, as G says, that letter didnt arrive, I cant reasonably say that the bank did 
anything wrong. 
Moreover, I agree with the investigator that G already knew that its capital repayments would 
commence in October, so I dont think it unfair that the bank would expect the repayments to 
be taken as scheduled. Gs director says there were hundreds of more pressing matters. But the end date of the capital repayment holiday was fixed from the start, and in my view the 
repayment of lending is itself an important matter.
I can see that, for G, its irritating and frustrating that the October repayment has remained 
as arrears on the account. But I dont think the bank has acted unfairly by pursuing the debt. 
The RLS
I have little to add to the investigators points about the RLS. On more than one occasion, 
Barclays gave an informal assessment of the prospects for an application by G. This 
assessment seems to have been given in good faith. G was free to make a formal RLS 
application if it chose to. I dont think the bank did anything wrong here.
Summing up
For the above reasons, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably with regard 
to either the BBL repayment or the discussions about the RLS. I therefore dont require the 
bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman