DRN-3458176
The complaint
Mrs F complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc {SJP} should have offered 
regular reviews on the unit linked investment bond she held. 
What happened
Mrs Fs late father invested funds into an SJP investment bond in which Mrs F was the life 
assured. The investment bond was assigned to Mrs F shortly after her father passed in 
2006. In 2021, Mrs F complained to SJP that the investment bond hadnt performed well 
over recent years and at a review with her new SJP partner she was told the investments 
needed some diversification. Mrs F said that no reviews had been offered to her since her 
father had passed and had reviews been carried out the value of the investment could have 
been considerably more than it was.
SJP upheld Mrs Fs complaint. SJP said that as it couldnt be certain how Mrs F would have 
invested had the reviews taken place, it would offer Mrs F the most advantageous remedy 
from three options it had considered. SJP confirmed it had compared the performance of the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index against the performance of Mrs Fs 
investment bond from February 2006 to 16 March 2021. It calculated that the difference 
between the two comparisons was £214.55 and offered to pay this to Mrs F, along with £250 
to reflect the trouble and upset caused to her. Mrs F didnt accept the offer made by SJP and 
SJP revised the offer to £214.55 plus £500 for the trouble and upset.
Mrs F didnt accept the final offer and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service where one of our Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that the 
offer SJP made to Mrs F was a fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mrs F asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs F will be disappointed but for very much the same reasons as our 
Investigator Ive decided the offer made by SJP was a fair and reasonable one. I will now 
explain why.
Its not disputed there were no reviews completed for Mrs Fs investment between 2006 and 
2020, so I only need to consider the impact this has had on Mrs F and whether the offer 
made by SJP was a fair and reasonable one.
Mrs F says that if she had been provided with the opportunity to review the investment its 
likely she would have invested differently. But, even if SJP had reviewed the investment 
regularly its not possible for me to say how Mrs F would have invested. In this situation we 
would normally consider using a benchmark, which is representative of the type of returns 
Mrs F could have achieved, broadly these split into three risk categories, no risk, small risk, 
and some risk. Normally which one we would recommend using depends on the amount of 
risk Mrs F should have been advised to take.
In this case Ive seen that SJP carried out three separate calculations based on all three risk 
scenarios and offered Mrs F the most favourable option, which was the FTSA UK Private 
Investors Income total return index. I cant be sure which risk profile would have suited Mrs F 
at various times between 2006 and 2021, but Im satisfied that by offering Mrs F the most 
favourable option SJPs offer in this regard was a fair and reasonable one. 
SJP also offered Mrs F £500 for the trouble and upset caused because the reviews werent 
offered. Mrs F says she received correspondence in 2017 from a previous SJP partner and 
thought that this partner would still oversee her affairs, so I think it would have come as a 
shock to Mrs F that her investments werent being regularly reviewed. Ive noted that Mrs F 
now has a new partner from SJP who has carried out a review in 2021 and whos ensured 
the investment is more diversified. Taking this in account Im satisfied the offer of £500 SJP 
made to Mrs F for the trouble and upset is a fair and reasonable one.
In her response to our Investigators view, Mrs F asked that I consider shed been paying an 
ongoing charge to SJP from the time the investment was passed to her. Unfortunately, I 
dont agree that this charge was an ongoing advice charge. Ive seen the illustrations from 
the time the Mrs Fs late father invested throughout the years and these explain that the SJP 
partner would receive an annual fee for providing ongoing servicing throughout the term. I 
cant say that this was an ongoing advice charge as it was a charge to administer the 
investment and for the SJP partner to deal with any queries the owner of the investment 
would have had at the time. Ive seen that SJP now charge an explicit fee for providing 
ongoing advice to customers and that this change came into effect in 2012. This is now the 
industry standard. Mrs F can switch off this fee if she no longer wants to receive ongoing 
advice from the SJP partner she now deals with, but if she continues paying this fee, then I 
think it would be reasonable for Mrs F to expect to receive regular reviews in future years. 
My final decision
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc has already made an offer to pay Mrs F £214.55 
and £500 for trouble and upset to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should 
pay Mrs F £714.55.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman