DRN-4357719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their storm damage 
claim.
They jointly held buildings insurance underwritten by UKI. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
mainly to Mr H throughout my decision.
What happened
The circumstances are well known to both parties, so Ill provide a summary of events and 
move on to explain the reasons for my decision.
Mr H told UKI that there was water leaking through the roof into his home. He arranged to 
have the gutters cleared, assuming that was the problem. UKI agreed to keep the 
information on file without raising a claim in line with Mr Hs wishes.
Clearing the gutters didnt stop the problem, and it became apparent that a coping stone was 
displaced. Mr H claimed under his policy and employed a roofer to complete the repair. UKI 
said hed need to provide a cause of damage report, which he did. The roofer stated the 
damage was due to historical storm conditions and provided photos.
UKI sent a surveyor to look at the roof and the photos. He reported that the damage was 
more likely due to wear and tear/gradually operating causes. So UKI declined the claim.
Mr H complained to UKI. He said hed kept it informed of his actions and UKI had said hed 
receive a one-off payment for the roof damage.
UKI looked into Mr Hs complaint, but it didnt change its decision about the claim. So, Mr H 
brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. He explained that because the 
damage was historical, UKI had fairly declined the claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Mr H didnt agree, and he asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to him, but Ill explain my reasons.
Both Mr H and UKI are aware of the three questions we ordinarily ask when looking at 
complaints about storm damage claims. Im going to focus on the first question, and then 
consider whether UKI acted in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Was there a storm?
This is where the overriding problem lies. Mr H was aware of the water damage in his home 
for around two years; hed told UKI about it during the year before his claim, and then raised 
his claim when his roofer told him it was storm damage. But, when UKI asked about the 
storm, Mr H confirmed that he didnt know when the damage happened.
Having listened to the call recordings provided by UKI, and those between Mr H and this 
service, Mr H never claimed to know which storm caused the damage. He named a few that 
had happened during the period in question, and pointed out that his roofer described it as 
historical storm damage.
So, while there were storms during the years before Mr H claimed, theres nothing in the 
evidence to pinpoint which one caused the damage.
Mr Hs policy provides cover for storm damage. A storm is not defined in the policy but that 
doesnt factor in this dispute. The issue is that the policy provides cover for damage caused 
by a one-off event, and neither UKI nor Mr H have any evidence that the damage was 
caused during a specific storm. UKI declined Mr Hs claim because the policy, specifically 
excludes gradual damage, wear and tear and maintenance issues. Given the time that had 
passed from when Mr H noticed the damage to when he made his claim, Im satisfied that 
UKI fairly relied on the gradual damage and maintenance exclusion to decline his claim.
So, in response to the first question, its my view that Mr H hasnt shown that a one-off 
insured event damaged his roof. Therefore, it was reasonable for UKI to decline his claim for 
the reasons it gave.
Claim handling
Ive considered the points Mr H made about the overall service. He said UKI told him it would 
make a one-off payment for the roof repairs. However, having listened to the claims calls, I 
havent identified any instance where UKI confirmed it would accept the claim. So, even if its 
approach would be to cash settle once repairs were completed, that doesnt mean it agreed 
to accept the claim. UKI told Mr H on more than one occasion that it would need a cause of 
damage report before it would consider the claim. So, I dont find that UKI gave Mr H 
incorrect information or said anything which might lead him to think it would definitely accept 
his claim.
Mr H was unhappy with the conduct of the agent who visited his home on behalf of UKI. He 
said they didnt go up to the roof to inspect it, and reported directly to him that it is storm 
damage, but it isnt, and wouldnt be covered. 
I can understand that Mr H would be frustrated by this comment. Its possible that the agent simply meant the roof was storm-damaged, but not covered by the policy because there 
wasn't a single identifiable storm. Regardless of what the agent meant, I accept it wouldve 
caused confusion and upset. However, I note that UKI apologised for this and, as it didnt 
cause Mr H any financial detriment, I see no reason to ask UKI to do any more.
Im sorry that Mr H suffered this damage, and it may well have been caused by multiple 
storms over the years. However, Im satisfied that UKI declined Mr Hs claim fairly, in line 
with the policy, because there was no single identifiable storm which caused the damage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman