DRN-3667453
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain as trustees on behalf of the S Trust that Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited (Aviva) provided incorrect information following a failed review of their Whole of Life 
(WoL) policies. They felt this impacted their ability to make a decision about their options. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is already well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it in 
detail here. In summary, Mr and Mrs S received a letter from Aviva in July 2019 explaining 
both their WoL policies (part of a multiplan) had failed reviews. The options available to Mr 
and Mrs S included: 
Option A: keep the same sum assured and increase the premiums; and
Option C: reduce the sum assured and keep the same premiums.  
There was further correspondence and Mr S complained to Aviva in September 2019. He 
was concerned incorrect information provided by Aviva had impaired his ability to decide. 
Aviva accepted they had provided some incorrect information and paid £200 in recognition of 
the upset caused. Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy with the response and asked us to 
investigate. 
Our Investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. In their opinion, Aviva hadnt given Mr 
and Mrs S reasonable time to make a decision after the confusion caused. Our Investigator 
felt had Mr and Mrs S been given sufficient time; they would have chosen to increase the 
premiums and keep the same sum assured (Option A). 
Mr and Mrs S accepted our Investigators view, but Aviva didnt. Therefore, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note following the review Mr S raised a number of queries and called Aviva to ask 
questions. For example, he raised queries throughout July, August and September 2019. 
Having considered this correspondence, I can see it wasnt an easy decision for Mr and Mrs 
S. Mr S genuinely sought information to help them choose the most suitable option.
 
Aviva have apologised for giving Mr S incorrect information about how the policies worked. 
Ive considered the correspondence and can see mistakes were made. For example, in the 
review letter from July 2019 the policy information and quotes should have been identical, 
but a system error had occurred which meant different quotes were provided.
 
On 3 September 2019, Mr S called Aviva and asked some questions about the policy. Aviva 
have apologised about the misinformation provided as he was told the premiums would not 
increase past the age of 80, and the premiums would be reduced after the first death of one 
of the lives assured. In this call, he confirmed he wanted to maintain the sum assured for 
both policies and increase the premiums and it seems he relied on the incorrect information 
provided.
 
Additionally, during the call Mr S asked about the cost of the premiums should one of the 
lives assured be removed. Aviva then sent an alteration quote on 9 September 2019. They 
wrote again on 11 September 2019 and apologised for misinterpreting Mr Ss request. They 
confirmed Mrs S hadnt been removed from the policy.  
As mentioned, this wasnt a straightforward decision and had consequences for Mr and Mrs 
S. Mr S reasonably made enquiries to help him make that decision and he should have been 
given accurate information. Therefore, I can appreciate why the situation would have been 
upsetting and confusing. 
 
Aviva posted their response to Mr Ss complaint and his queries on 6 November 2019. They 
also provided a 20-day grace period from the date of the letter for Mr and Mrs S to make a 
decision. I note on 27 November 2019 Mr S called to confirm they wanted to reduce the sum 
assured and keep the premiums the same (Option C). 
However, Avivas deadline wasnt reasonable. The response followed a period of confusion 
and a further error was made. Ive seen on 15 November 2019 Aviva wrote to Mr and Mrs S 
and apologised for stating the sum assured would be payable on the first death. Therefore, 
Mr and Mrs S remained understandably mistrustful of the information provided. The 
response was also posted to Mr and Mrs S, so wouldnt have reached them straight away 
leaving them with less time to consider things. 
Additionally, Mr S contacted Aviva on 27 November 2019 to confirm their decision. This was 
also a day after the grace period. On 6 December 2019 Mr S contacted Aviva and requested 
for the policies to revert to the previous sum assured (as if they had chosen Option A). By 
this point, hed had the opportunity to discuss matters with a financial advisor. Aviva have 
said it was outside of the grace period, but Im content it was still reasonably prompt and 
only within a short time of communicating their previous decision. 
Moreover, Mrs S was in serious poor health. This was recorded in Avivas call note from 10 
September 2019. So, Im satisfied Aviva were aware of the difficult circumstances in which 
Mr and Mrs S were trying to make this decision. Mr Ss letter of 25 September 2019 also set 
out the confusion and distress experienced. 
Im satisfied these circumstances would have made it difficult to review the information and 
make a decision. For these reasons, a standard deadline wasnt appropriate, and Im not 
satisfied Mr and Mrs S were given sufficient time to seek the advice they needed in their 
difficult circumstances. This meant they made a rushed decision on 27 November 2019 and I 
think its one they wouldnt have otherwise made. 
If Mr and Mrs S had been provided with clear information and a reasonable amount of time 
to make the decision, Im content its likely they would have always chosen Option A. It 
seems to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs S as its the option they initially chose, and it 
was the option they wanted after receiving some advice.   
Aviva have said Mr and Mrs S rejected a quote they provided in February 2020 to increase 
the sum assured back up to £100,000. However, the premiums in the quote were much 
higher than what had been quoted in the review letter from July 2019. So, this doesnt 
persuade me Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have chosen Option A. Putting things right
Im content its likely that had Mr and Mrs S been given reasonable information following the 
review and a sufficient amount of time to consider their options, they would have chosen to 
keep the sum assured and pay the higher premiums. Therefore, Aviva should: 
Restructure the policies from the review date in July 2019 as if Mr and Mrs S had 
selected Option A and cover the missed premiums up to date of settlement (with Mr 
and Mrs S responsible for higher premiums thereafter). 
Pay a further £150 to Mr and Mrs S for the trouble and upset. Aviva have already 
paid £200 and I am of the view a total of £350 appropriately recognizes the impact. 
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should put things right in 
the way outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S as 
trustees of the S Trust to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman