DRN-4044868
The complaint
Ms E complains that she wasnt recorded on the electoral roll with Experian Limited and was 
declined for a credit card as a result. 
What happened
In 2021, Ms E moved home and has told us she updated her details with the local authority. 
Ms E went on to apply for a credit card with a business Ill refer to as J. Ms Es explained that 
J declined her credit card application and referred her to Experian to check her credit file. 
Ms E obtained a statutory credit report that was posted to her. Ms Es explained that the 
credit report didnt show up to date information about her current address or that she was 
registered on the electoral roll. Ms Es explained she wrote to Experian confirming she was 
registered to vote and asked it to update her records. Ms E also sent a letter from her local 
authority that confirmed she was registered on the electoral roll at her new address. But 
when Experian responded it said it was unable to amend Ms Es records until the council 
completes an update. 
Ms E tried to raise a complaint but Experian said she needed to provide information to verify 
her identity before it could respond. Ms Es explained she tried to raise the complaint over 
the phone but Experian was only willing to speak with paying customers. Experian ultimately 
issued a final response that advised Ms E hadnt completed the verification process which 
meant it was unable to proceed. 
Ms E referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. We 
subsequently asked Experian to use the details Ms E had provided in the complaint form to 
complete its verification process and issue a final response that covered the specifics of Ms 
Es complaint. 
Experian issued a final response in December 2022. Experian said the information on Ms 
Es credit report is provided by third party organisations and that electoral roll information is 
provided by the local authority. Experian advised that any missing information, like electoral 
roll registration, would need to be updated by the relevant organisation. And Experian said 
electoral roll data is updated by councils as part of an annual canvas. Experian advised Ms 
Es local authority had updated its records and confirmed she was on the electoral roll. 
Experian didnt agree that its actions had led to Ms Es credit card application with J being 
declined. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Es complaint. He was satisfied Experian had 
correctly confirmed the process of updating electoral roll details and that it was unable to 
make any changes solely on the basis of Ms Es requests. The investigator didnt think errors 
by Experian had led to Ms Es credit card application with J being declined. In addition, the 
investigator didnt think Experian had acted unfairly by asking Ms E to verify her details 
before responding to her complaint. 
Ms E asked to appeal and said she didnt agree with the approach Experian had taken to 
verifying her identity. Ms E also provided information from the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) that she felt showed Experian was responsible for the information recorded on 
her credit file. Ms E said she felt Experian had failed to follow the rules when she tried to 
register a complaint. Ms E also sent us an email from J that  advised her credit card 
application had been declined due to a discrepancy with her address recorded with the credit 
reference agencies. As Ms E asked to appeal her complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
All parties agree that when Ms E moved her electoral roll information wasnt immediately 
updated by the local authority. As a result, when Ms E applied for the credit card with J it 
found a discrepancy with her address details on the credit report. Ms Es told us she sent 
Experian a letter from her local authority that confirmed shed moved and was on the 
electoral roll at her new address. But Experians explained that local authorities update 
electoral information directly via an annual canvas. Experian says the annual canvas is 
completed by councils between December and January each year and, during that period, 
electoral roll details arent updated each month by the council. And Experians confirmed that 
the local authority updated Ms Es electoral roll information on 4 January 2022. From that 
point, Ms E has shown as being registered on the electoral roll. 
I understand Ms E had a letter from her council that confirmed her electoral roll registration. 
But the process of updating a credit file isnt straight forward. And Experian has confirmed 
that it can only update a credit file when the relevant local authority updates its records 
directly via the system. I appreciate that may have led a delay to the electoral roll information 
being updated, but Im not persuaded that was caused by Experians actions. Im satisfied 
that Experian would have amended Ms Es credit file sooner if the local authority had 
updated Ms Es electoral roll details earlier. 
In response to the investigator Ms E forwarded ICO guidance concerning errors on a credit 
file. The guidance says a credit reference agency is responsible for information generated 
including linked addresses. Ive read the guidance in full and it also says: 
If your credit file is inaccurate, you can raise your complaints with the relevant CRA you 
obtained your file from. However, the problem may lie with the original lender or organisation 
that supplied the CRA with the information so you will need to contact them instead.  
The information Ms E has forwarded specifically relates to linked addresses. But Ive quoted 
the section that deals with inaccurate information. And that says if the problem lies with the 
reporting organisation it would need to be taken up directly. I understand Ms E feels 
Experian shouldve either updated her electoral roll information on her request or a letter 
from her local authority. But I havent been persuaded it was unreasonable for Experian to 
require the update to come directly from the organisation that reports electoral roll 
registration  the local authority. Im sorry to disappoint Ms E but I havent been persuaded Experian has treated her unfairly or made errors in terms of the information recorded on her 
credit file. 
The credit card application with J was declined and Ms E has provided correspondence that 
her address details form part of the decision. But, as Ive noted above, Ms Es electoral 
information hadnt been updated by her local authority when she applied to J. And that was 
the reason why she wasnt recorded on the electoral roll. Ive read the link Ms E has 
highlighted the Small and Medium Sized Business (Credit Information) Regulations 2015 
and says information supplied by the credit reference agency is for the purpose of the 
finance provider to decide whether to offer credit. I note the regulations Ms E has highlighted 
apply to businesses, not consumers. But I take Ms Es point that the information provided by 
a credit reference agency should be accurate so a lender can make an informed decision 
about whether to proceed. 
Whilst I accept Experian is obliged to provide accurate and up to date information, the 
overall decision concerning whether to proceed lies with the credit provider. Its the lender 
that sets its criteria and ultimately decides the basis on which it will approve an application. 
As Ive said above, Im satisfied the information Experian was reporting was in line with the 
information it was receiving from Ms Es local authority at the time. And Im satisfied that 
when the electoral roll information was confirmed on 4 January 2022 Experian updated Ms 
Es credit file to reflect that.  
Ms E has told us she experienced problems raising a complaint with Experian as it doesnt 
offer a telephone service for consumers who are customers with active subscriptions. Ms E 
has also explained she found the process of verifying her identity unreasonable. Ms E has 
forwarded ICO guidance concerning how organisations verify someones identity. The 
guidance says organisations should request reasonable and proportionate information from 
a consumer to verify their identity. Experian requested Ms Es personal details including her 
full name, date of birth, address, credit report reference number and email address. Im sorry 
to disappoint Ms E but Im satisfied the details Experian requested to verify her identity 
before responding to her complaint were proportionate and reasonable. 
Ms E also told us she was unable to raise a complaint over the phone and had to do so in 
writing. Ms E has highlighted a section of the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) that are 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority. DISP sets out how a business should deal with a 
complaint. And DISP 1.3.2 says businesses should allow complaints to be made by any 
reasonable means. I agree with Ms E that it wouldve been more straight forward if she 
couldve complained over the phone. But even if she had, Experian would still have 
requested information from her to verify her identity, as it did when she complained in 
writing. And it appears to me that the delay in issuing a full final response related to the 
verification process for Ms Es identity, not because she was unable to complain over the 
phone. 
I should also explain that DISP only allows the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider 
certain complaints. In this case we can consider Ms Es complaint about the information 
recorded on her credit file as that issue is covered under DISP. But, complaint handling isnt 
a regulated activity and isnt noted as an activity the Financial Ombudsman Service is able to 
consider a complaint about in its own right. So whilst I understand Ms E has concerns over 
the way Experian received and dealt with her complaint, our rules dont allow me to consider 
the merits of those issues. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms E but Im not telling Experian to take any further action to 
resolve her complaint. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman