DRN-3251994
The complaint
Mr H complains about a loan from 1Plus1 Loans Limited, (1Plus1), which he says was 
unaffordable. The complaint has been brought to this service on Mr Hs behalf by a claims 
management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr H.
What happened
1Plus1 provided Mr H with a loan of £5,000 for loan consolidation and home improvements 
on 9 January 2018, although the loan agreement was dated 30 December 2017. The loan 
was secured by a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if Mr H failed to make 
his repayments. The interest rate was 25.75%, (46.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 
60 monthly repayments of £190.63. If Mr H made each payment when it was due, hed pay 
£11,437.80 in total. From the information Ive seen, the loan was paid on 16 July 2020.
Mr H said that 1Plus1 didnt properly undertake affordability checks when granting credit or
assess signs of his over-indebtedness. He said that the unaffordable high cost loan 
worsened a financial situation which was already poor. 
In its final response letter, 1Plus1 provided details from a phone conversation with Mr H in 
which he had provided information about his circumstances, income and expenses. Mr H 
told it that he was married and had two dependent children. His wife received benefit income 
and paid most of the bills and some of his loan repayments. Mr H said that he was a tenant 
and his wife paid the monthly rent of £515. He paid for one of his loans, a credit card and 
some household bills. 1Plus1 said that the expenses information provided by Mr H matched 
or exceeded the statistical information it used from the Office for National Statistics (ONS). 
1Plus1 also checked Mr Hs credit file. It said that no issues were raised and all of Mr Hs 
credit was paid on time with no missed payments and no defaults. 1Plus1 also checked      
Mr Hs payslip to verify his income.1Plus1 said that its systems showed the monthly loan 
repayment was at an acceptable level based on Mr Hs net monthly income. This 
demonstrated that the loan amount and repayments were easily affordable to him, and the 
checks carried out were reasonable and proportionate for the level of debt and his net 
income at the time the loan was granted. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She said that 
based on the commitment Mr H was entering into, she wasnt persuaded the checks 1Plus1 
carried out were sufficient. As the credit checks 1Plus1 carried out suggested Mr H was 
heavily indebted, she thought there would be a significant risk in granting this loan. She 
thought the level of outstanding debt Mr H held when this loan was granted was quite
concerning and warranted further checks especially as Mr H was on a low income. She 
thought further checks were required to ensure accurate information was provided and that 
Mr H could afford and sustain the monthly repayments over the loan term without undue 
difficulty. The investigator noted that Mr H had said that his wife paid for two of his loans and 
so 1Plus1 didnt account for these amounts in its income and expenditure check. But she 
didnt think this was reasonable. The investigator also didnt think the use of ONS data was 
fair as it was unlikely to reflect the existing commitments and expenditure of someone in    
Mr Hs position.
.
1Plus1 disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that it didnt find the level of Mr Hs 
outstanding debt to be a concerning level of credit. It queried whether the investigator had 
looked at Mr Hs bank statements to evidence if he was making certain loan payments. The 
lender considered the bank statements to be crucial to determine if Mr H was able to afford 
to meet the repayments. 
1Plus1 also said that consideration should be given to the fact that all Mr Hs credit was paid 
on time and his credit file displayed no arrears. The lender said that Mr Hs income alone 
wasnt sufficient to afford the credit commitments as identified on his credit file. However, as 
Mr H was married, and he confirmed to 1Plus1 that his wife maintained the hire purchase 
agreements, it considered that as the payments were made on time for these agreements 
according to the credit file, there was truth in his statement and it could rely on this 
information to correctly assess Mr Hs affordability. 1Plus1 also noted that its loan 
repayments had been paid on time with no problems. 1Plus1 also referred to certain 
provisions from CONC and said that the answers provided by Mr H were sufficient and the 
fact that his partners income paid for other forms of credit mitigated the risk of further 
checks. 
The investigator responded to say, in summary, that Mr H was unable to obtain his bank 
statements.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H
and to 1Plus1 on 11 November 2021. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when 1Plus1 lent to Mr H, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged 1Plus1 to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that 1Plus1 needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or 
not a borrower could afford to meet his loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so 1Plus1 had to think about whether Mr H 
could sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that 
making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 1Plus1 to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on  
Mr H. 
And as in this case, where Mr H had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments in the 
event that he couldnt, 1Plus1 was still obliged to assess whether in the first instance Mr H 
could meet his repayments without undue difficulty.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Hs case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Hs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did 1Plus1 make a fair lending decision? 
Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Hs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
As set out above, 1Plus1 gathered some information from Mr H about his income and  
expenses before it agreed the loan. It spoke to Mr H on the phone to obtain this information. 
Id listened to a recording of that call. 1Plus1 also carried out a credit check and verified     
Mr Hs income with his December 2017 payslip. 
Id noted that Mr H had told 1Plus1 that hed worked for his employer for six months and that 
he earned £1,300 net each month. Id noted that Mr Hs December 2017 payslip showed that 
his net pay was £1,225.59, which included overtime of £26.60. So, his basic pay was more 
likely to be nearer £1,200. I could see that 1Plus1s records showed this amount as Mr Hs 
net monthly income. But, I thought that 1Plus1 needed to gather further information from    
Mr H about his income. His payslip showed that his total pay to date was £4,053.93. If, as  
Mr H said, hed been employed for six months, then it was likely his net average monthly pay 
would have been a lot less than the amount of £1,200 it used in its assessment.  
Mr H also told 1Plus1 that he was a tenant and that his wife paid the rent, council tax and 
most of the bills. He said that his wife received quite a lot of benefit income. I couldnt see 
that 1Plus1 had asked Mr H for information about the amount of benefit income received by 
his wife, but I thought it would have been reasonable to do so as Mr H had told 1Plus1 that 
she was meeting most of the household expenses as well as his two largest credit 
commitments.Mr H told 1Plus1 about the living costs he paid which 1Plus1 totalled to be £373. Mr H didnt 
appear to have provided information about the amount of living costs paid by his wife. I also 
couldnt see that 1Plus1 had asked for evidence of his living costs. Id noted that 1Plus1 said 
that the information provided by Mr H matched or exceeded ONS data. But I didnt think it 
could be confident that such data reasonably reflected Mr Hs situation and was appropriate 
to rely on in this case. Bearing all this in mind, I thought it would have been proportionate for 
1Plus1 to have taken steps to verify Mr Hs actual expenditure in line with CONC 5.3.1(4) 
instead of choosing to rely on a potentially inaccurate comparison with ONS data. 
CONC 5.3.1(4) said:
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment or its 
assessment required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):
1. (a) 
the firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it 
is reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure 
over the anticipated repayment period of the agreement;
2. (b) 
it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of 
the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by 
the customer;
The lender also provided this Service with a summary of Mr Hs credit commitments from its 
credit checks. I asked the investigator to ask 1Plus1 for its actual checks which the lender 
provided. I could see that these were similar to the summary it had already sent to this 
Service. 
1Plus1s summary of Mr Hs credit commitments showed that Mr H had one loan, two hire 
purchase agreements and a credit card with a total balance of nearly £56,500 outstanding. I 
considered this to be a significant level of debt. The monthly payments on the three loans 
totalled £988 and were payable for periods of between five and seven years. Mr H said that 
his wife transferred money to him to pay the monthly repayments of £751 on the two hire 
purchase agreements. Id noted that 1Plus1 didnt include the repayments of £751 in its 
affordability calculations relying on Mr Hs declaration that his wife paid for these and that its 
credit checks showed all the credit paid on time with no arrears. 
But I could see that the credit checks showed only one months payment record for one of 
the hire purchase agreements, a payment record of just four months for the loan, and a 
payment record of six months for the other hire purchase agreement. So, I wasnt persuaded 
that it was reasonable for 1Plus1 to rely on this information to accurately assess Mr Hs 
affordability as the payment history for the three loans in its credit checks was only for a 
relatively short period of time. 
I also thought 1Plus1 was likely to be aware that its credit checks might not have revealed 
the full extent of Mr Hs credit commitments. A lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Its checks might not 
necessarily be up to date. Also, not all lenders reported to the same credit reference 
agencies.
Bearing in mind that this loan was to be repaid over five years and that it wasnt all to be, 
potentially, used for debt consolidation, I thought 1Plus1 ought to have done more here to 
verify what Mr H had told it about his financial situation in order to reasonably check that he would be able to meet his repayments from his relatively low income without being caused 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
So, I didnt think that the checks that 1Plus1 carried out before agreeing to the loan were 
reasonable and proportionate.
But that in itself didn't mean that Mr Hs complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have likely shown 
1Plus1 that Mr H couldn't sustainably afford the loan. So, Id looked at Mr Hs bank 
statements to see what better checks would have shown 1Plus1.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did 1Plus1 make a fair 
lending decision? 
Mr H provided his bank statements from around the time he applied for the loan which the 
investigator hadnt seen at the time of her view. I wasnt suggesting here that these were the 
checks that 1Plus1 should have done. But I thought looking at these gave me the best 
picture of what the lender was likely to have seen had it made better checks. Had it sought 
some verification of Mr Hs spending before lending, I thought 1Plus1 wouldve been in a 
better position to understand Mr Hs financial situation before it decided to lend to him. 
Id reviewed Mr Hs spending on his bank statements for the two months prior to his loan 
application. The bank statements didnt evidence that Mr Hs wife was transferring sufficient 
money to his account to pay the monthly repayments on the two hire purchase agreements 
which was what Mr H had told 1Plus1. I could see that Mr H was paying for one loan and two 
hire purchase agreements from his account. Whilst he received some money to pay just one 
of the three loans in November 2017, he didnt receive any money from his wife (other than 
£15) to repay any of the three loans in December 2017. He was also paying some other 
living costs. Consequently, from the eighth day of each of these two months until the end of 
each month when Mr H was paid, he was left with under £2 in his account. And he had no 
overdraft arrangement. 
So, I didnt think it was reasonable for 1Plus1 to exclude the amount of £751 for the hire 
purchase agreement repayments from its calculations of Mr Hs disposable income as it 
appeared from the bank statements that he was paying for at least one of these agreements 
from his own funds in November 2017 and for both in December 2017. And I thought if 
1Plus1 had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, I thought it was likely it 
would have discovered that Mr H was over committed financially. And it was clear that 
further checks wouldnt have provided any reassurance to 1Plus1 that Mr H would have 
managed his repayments sustainably or that the loan was suitable for him. And so I thought 
the lender was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him on this occasion. 
Id noted that 1Plus1 said that its loan repayments were paid on time with no problems. But I 
didnt think that necessarily meant that the loan repayments were repaid without Mr H being 
caused undue difficulty or adverse consequences.  
Id also noted that 1Plus1 had referred to two provisions from CONC. But the provisions it 
referred to werent in force at the time of the loan application and so werent relevant here.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think 1Plus1 had acted fairly when it provided the 
loan to Mr H and subject to any further representations by Mr H or 1Plus1, I intended to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint and say that 1Plus1 should put things right as shown below.
Putting things right  what 1Plus1 needs to doI understand that the loan has been repaid. So, 1Plus1 should
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr H;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
1Plus1 should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say that he agreed with it.
1Plus1 disagreed with my provisional decision and raised a number of issues. I list below its 
main points:-
1. It referred to its credit report and my comment that 1Plus1 was likely to be
aware that the credit checks might not have revealed Mr Hs full credit commitments.   
1Plus1 said that to obtain numerous credit check reports would not be a 
proportionate response to assess a small loan.
2. It referred to my comment that more information should have been obtained about  
Mr Hs employment. It said that it carried out online income verification checks with 
Mr Hs bank that reflected the basic pay he received and the amount it used as 
£1,200.00 in its assessment and obtained a payslip.
3. It noted that Id been able to review Mr Hs bank statements. It asked to see these.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
I have considered 1Plus1s response to my provisional findings. I appreciate that this will be 
very disappointing for it but I am still of the view that it was irresponsible for it to have agreed 
the loan for Mr H. Ive explained my reasons in my provisional decision and Ive also 
responded to its main points in response to my provisional decision below. Ive used the 
same numbering as above.
1. I wasnt suggesting that 1Plus1 obtain numerous credit check reports. But, the 
payment history for the three loans in its credit checks was only for a relatively 
short period of time, and so gave a limited credit history. And Mr H had a 
relatively high total credit balance of nearly £56,500 outstanding which I think 
might have been concerning considering his relatively low income. I think 1Plus 1 
was likely aware that Mr H might have other credit commitments not shown in its 
credit checks. And in Mr Hs circumstances, bearing in mind the term of the loan, 
the cost of the credit, what 1Plus1 had seen or ought to have seen in the 
information gathered and the potential implications for the guarantor, I thought 
1Plus1 needed to get a thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial position in 
order to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan 
payments he was being asked to commit to. 
2. I note that 1Plus1 obtained a payslip but the information on it suggested that his regular net monthly income might be lower than £1,200. I note that 1Plus1 said it 
carried out online verification checks with Mr Hs bank that reflected the basic pay 
he received and the amount it used as £1,200.00 in its assessment. But it hasnt 
provided any details of this. So I dont know whether 1Plus1 checked that Mr H 
was in receipt of £1,200 each month, or if it crosschecked this amount with his 
bank account deposits. 
3. Mr H agreed that his bank statements could be sent to 1Plus1.The investigator 
sent them to the lender and asked it to provide comments within a week. As at 
the date of this decision, 1Plus1 has had around two weeks to provide its 
comments on the statements, but none have been received. 
I want to reassure the parties that I have thought carefully about everything again but for the 
reasons set out above, I see no reason to alter my provisional conclusions. It follows that I 
uphold Mr Hs complaint and require 1Plus1 to put things right as set out above under the 
heading Putting things right  what 1Plus1 needs to do. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order 1Plus1 Loans Limited to put things right as set out above under the heading Putting 
things right  what 1Plus1 needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman