DRN-1751387
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has declined to pay part of a claim made 
on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C took out an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by ERGO in August 2018  
which included cruise cover. Towards the start of 2019, Mr C went on a cruise holiday, 
alone. Whilst on board the cruise ship Mr C suffered a heart attack, and a suspected stroke, 
and needed life-saving CPR. The on-board doctor advised that he needed to be taken to a 
hospital on the mainland. Mr C was transported by helicopter to hospital.
ERGO agreed to cover most of Mr Cs claim including his medical and repatriation costs 
back to the UK. However, it has declined to cover the cost of being airlifted to hospital in the 
sum of £42,014.11 (the outstanding amount).
Unhappy, Mr C complained to us. Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. He 
recommended ERGO pay the outstanding amount along with the sum of £100 compensation 
to Mr C for the unnecessary trouble and upset hed experienced by being chased for 
payment - after ERGO said it wouldnt cover the cost of the airlift to hospital. 
ERGO disagreed and raised further points in reply. Mr Cs complaint has now been passed 
to me to look at everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
ERGO has an obligation to consider Mr Cs claim promptly and fairly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim made under the policy. 
I accept that the policy doesnt expressly state that air transportation from a cruise ship to a 
hospital is covered under the policy. However, neither is it expressly excluded. Section 3a of 
the policy sets out the emergency medical and repatriation expenses which are covered and 
that includes transportation to the nearest hospital in particular circumstances:
medical expenses (including transportation to the nearest suitable hospital) for the 
immediate needs of an unforeseen medical emergency, when deemed necessary by a 
recognised doctor and agreed by our medical office.
 
Mr Cs policy covered cruise holidays. The medical advice of the doctor on board the cruise 
ship was that Mr C needed to be urgently transported to a hospital on the mainland and Im 
satisfied this was due to an unforeseen medical emergency. So, I think the cost of the airlift to hospital is covered under the policy in the circumstances of 
this case.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account all of ERGOs comments including their 
arguments in relation to the following points: 
the cruise operators duty of care:
ERGO says cruise operators have a duty of care to their passengers to evacuate them to an 
appropriate medical facility if they cant be treated on board. And that these arent costs that 
are recoverable by an insurer  cruise operators factor those sorts of costs into the overall 
price each passenger pays for their cruise package.
ERGO has provided a copy of the cruise companys terms and conditions. However, Im not 
persuaded that the terms do support its position that the cost of an airlift to hospital is 
factored into every passengers cruise fare. To the contrary, clause 11 says the cruise 
operator:
 will afford passengers assistance during their holiday if they suffer illness requiring 
medical and/or overseas repatriation services where a passenger lacks the capacity to 
decide on any assistance to be provided or where, in (the cruise operators) sole discretion, 
the provision of assistance is necessary to ensure the safety of  the passenger 
the passenger gives (the cruise operator) irrevocable authority to organise any necessary 
assistance on their behalf. All expenses (including without limitation those associated with 
medical treatment, repatriation expenses, travel expenses and the cost of local 
assistance) incurred in providing assistance to passengers under this clause shall be for 
the passengers account and the passenger hereby indemnifies (the cruise operator) in full 
for such expenses and undertakes to repay them on demand (whether or not the passenger 
has insurance cover for some or all of the expenses)
So, Im satisfied that based on the cruise operators terms, Mr C is ultimately responsible for 
the cost of the air ambulance whether or not he had insurance in place to cover that 
expense. And Ive seen nothing else to suggest that the cost of the air ambulance is factored 
into the price Mr C paid for the cruise package as suggested by ERGO.
lack of pre-authorisation:
ERGO has also argued that authorisation wasnt sought from ERGO before Mr C was 
airlifted to hospital. 
The policy does say that if Mr C had a medical emergency while on holiday its assistance 
line should be contacted as soon as possible. And that prior authorisation must be obtained 
before incurring any expense over £350. 
However, there is an exception in emergency cases and the policy goes on to say that if Mr 
C is physically prevented from contacting ERGO immediately, he or someone designated by 
him, must contact ERGO within 48 hours. Im satisfied that Mr Cs health deteriorated 
suddenly and given the seriousness of his condition he was prevented from contacting 
ERGO himself. I can see that the cruise company contacted ERGO shortly after Mr C was 
airlifted to hospital and within 48 hours of having his heart attack. So, although prior 
authorisation wasnt given, I dont think its fair or reasonable for ERGO to decline to cover 
the cost of the air transportation for this reason. Its possible that had authorisation been sought prior to Mr C being airlifted to hospital, 
ERGO wouldve concluded that this wasnt a cost it was going to cover. However, given my 
reasons above, I dont think that wouldve been reasonable. And given the seriousness of 
Mr Cs condition  and the advice of the on-board doctor  I think he wouldve still proceeded 
to be transferred by air to hospital. From the medical evidence Ive seen, to not to, wouldve 
risked his life. 
the guarantee of payment:
The cruise operator didnt request a guarantee of payment at the time Mr C was airlifted to 
hospital; ERGO didnt receive an invoice from the air transportation provider until six months 
after the incident occurring. That was the first time it became aware that it was being asked 
to cover this cost. 
That might be the case, but I dont think its fair and reasonable to decline covering the cost 
of Mr C being airlifted to hospital for this reason. Im not persuaded that ERGO has been 
unduly prejudiced by the late notification of the cost. Although, the reserve on the claim 
would need to be increased, the cost of the airlift to hospital wouldve been the same if the 
invoice had been submitted closer to the date of the incident. Im also conscious that not 
covering that cost would mean that Mr C is severely prejudiced as he, ultimately, would be 
responsible for it. Im satisfied thats not fair and reasonable given the terms of the policy set 
out above, and particularly given that ERGOs late notification of the cost is not a result of 
anything done  or not done  by him.
I also note that ERGO agreed to cover the other costs which were included on the same 
invoice from the cruise operator as the cost of the airlift to hospital in the approximate sum of 
£2,500  even though it had also received notification of those costs six months late. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied ERGO is responsible for the outstanding 
amount. So, within two months from the date on which we tell it that Mr C accepts my final 
decision, I direct ERGO to: 
i.       either pay the outstanding amount together with any collection fees Mr C is liable 
for, or, alternatively, negotiate and pay a reduced settlement of the outstanding 
amount with the airlift provider or cruise company; and
 
ii.       provide written confirmation to Mr C that it has discharged his personal liabilities 
for the outstanding amount in full or, if ERGO successfully negotiates a reduced 
settlement with the airlift provider or cruise company, provide confirmation from the 
relevant company that Mr Cs personal liability for the outstanding invoice is 
discharged.
 
Im also satisfied that ERGOs decision not to cover the cost of the airlift to hospital has 
caused some unnecessary worry, upset and inconvenience for Mr C. Hes being chased for 
payment of a significant sum of money. This wouldve exacerbated an already worrying time 
for him, having only recently recovered from a serious heart attack and stroke. I think ERGO 
should pay Mr C compensation for this in the sum of £100 to reflect the level of trouble and 
upset hes experienced as a result of what its done wrong here. This payment should be 
paid within 28 days from the date on which we tell ERGO that Mr C accepts my final 
decision.My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to put things right by doing 
what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman