DRN-3049859
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly removed funds from his account and took 
too long to return them to him. He wants compensation for the financial loss, inconvenience 
and distress he experienced.  
What happened
Much of what follows repeats the same background to Mr Hs complaint that I gave in my 
provisional decision. It is, however, important that this same background is repeated for the 
purpose of my issuing a final decision.
Mr H held a current account with Barclays. He maintained a significant balance on the 
account and often sent funds to support his children. Mr H currently works abroad. 
Barclays decided to remove a sizeable part of the balance in Mr Hs account to a holding 
account. The sum represented several payments Mr H received from a government 
department in the UK. Barclays was concerned about the number and size of the payments 
originating from the same source and wanted to ensure nothing untoward was going on.
Mr H noticed his reduced balance around 10 days after the funds were removed. He had 
rung Barclays telephone banking to make a payment to one of his children. Barclays 
informed him the funds had been removed. Mr H said it had no right to do this. He was told 
he would need to get a letter from the government department to verify the department had 
no concerns about the payments.
Mr H made numerous lengthy phone calls to Barclays and the government department. He 
encountered difficulties getting the letter sent to him, but he was eventually able to send it to 
Barclays. Once Barclays received the letter it told Mr H it could take up to 10 days to review. 
But Barclays ended up taking around 16 days to return the funds to his account.
Mr H raised a complaint during this time about how he was treated. Barclays acknowledged 
it had said it had returned the payments back to the government department, which was 
incorrect. It offered to pay Mr H £200 to make up for its mistake.
Mr H didnt think this was enough. He wants compensation for the amount of time he spent 
dealing with the issue while at work, the distress he and his family were caused, the costs he 
incurred contacting Barclays and the government department, the way his complaint was 
looked into, and the cost he incurred bringing the complaint.
An investigator at our service decided Barclays didnt need to do anything more than offer  
Mr H £200. They found:
Barclays could remove the funds in Mr Hs account to investigate its concerns. This 
was in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. There is a prevalence of fraud 
which involves payments of the type Mr H received, so it was understandable why 
Barclays wanted to investigate and to prevent Mr H moving the funds while it did.
£200 was fair compensation for the error Barclays made when they told him the 
payments had been returned to the government department.
Mr H disagreed with the outcome and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. As a 
result, his complaint was given to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021. My findings are copied below.
Barclays has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to protect persons from 
financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
To comply with its responsibilities, Barclays will monitor accounts for activity which appears 
unusual or out of place. Its common industry practice for firms to restrict access to an 
account in order to conduct a review on a customer and/or the activity on an account. And 
its also not uncommon for firms to remove funds temporarily during a review.
Mr H had several large payments go into his account from a government department within a 
short period of time. While I appreciate the payments were genuine, Barclays werent to 
know that until it conducted a review. The type of payments Mr H received can also be an 
indicator of a prevalent type of fraud. And while Mr H is a customer of long standing, I dont 
find this meant Barclays ought to have been less stringent in what it required from him.
So, I find Barclays decision to remove the funds temporarily was reasonable and it did not 
need Mr Hs authorisation. For instance, Barclays would have failed in its responsibilities if it 
hadnt acted and the payments turned out not to be genuine.
Barclays should conduct a review and reach a decision without undue delay. After all, the 
longer a customer doesnt have access to funds, the greater the financial harm they may 
suffer. I find there were several areas where Barclays should have provided Mr H with a 
better service.
Barclays wouldnt have wanted to contact Mr H prior to removing the funds. If it told Mr H of 
its intention to remove the funds before taking custody of them, Mr H could have moved the 
funds elsewhere. So, the purpose behind Barclays investigation would have been thwarted 
before it had begun. But after removing the funds, Barclays were then content not to tell     
Mr H what it had done. Instead, it waited until Mr H noticed the funds were removed. 
Barclays says its process isnt to contact a customer after removing funds. But holding on to 
funds without taking action to investigate a concern isnt reasonable. Barclays ought to have 
contacted Mr H shortly after the funds were removed and asked him to provide the letter 
from the government department. This wouldnt have prevented the difficulty Mr H faced 
getting the letter, but it would have allayed his concern that he wasnt contacted at all before 
he got in touch.
Mr H may feel his own explanation of what the funds represented should have been enough 
for Barclays to return the funds. But asking for the letter from the government department was done to independently verify whether what Mr H was saying was true. I find this was 
reasonable.
The loss Mr H experienced as a result of the inefficiency of a government department is not 
something I am placing at Barclays door. I have sympathy for Mr H, as it appears getting the 
letter was not easy, but Barclays werent unreasonable to ask for this evidence.
Barclays told Mr H incorrect information. It said it sent the funds back to the government 
department when it hadnt. Instead the funds had been moved to a holding account. Im 
satisfied £200 is a reasonable sum to make up for the inconvenience and cost of phone calls 
Mr H might have made to the department of government about the funds being returned to it. 
Its likely the error led to a few unnecessary conversations, but I havent seen evidence to 
warrant a larger sum.
Barclays systems record someone who reviewed the situation thought the letter Mr H sent 
wasnt needed because the funds had been returned to the government department. I find 
this indicates the review may have suffered from a lack of thoroughness when it was sorely 
needed. So, its likely that had the facts of what had happened to the funds been properly 
understood after the letter was reviewed, the funds would have been released sooner.
Its not possible to know how much earlier the funds ought to have been released. Mr H 
thinks it should have happened immediately on receipt of the letter. But only certain persons 
are qualified in banks to make fraud related decisions, and sometimes matters need to be 
escalated to more senior persons to approve a decision. So, in this context, I dont find 10 
days is an unreasonable timeframe for Barclays to have set out. However, I find some of the 
later calls Mr H made after the 10 days had expired could have been avoided, which would 
have prevented him experiencing further distress. As a result, I am recommending Barclays 
pay him a further £100 on top of the £200 it has already offered.
I cant see Mr H was prevented from making payments to his children. I can see standing 
order payments were made to them from his account and he made the payment he wanted 
to make when he first discovered what had happened. He may have been worried about 
more funds being removed and how this would impact on his ability to support his family. But 
I find Barclays were entitled to remove the funds and I am not awarding compensation 
because of the worry this caused Mr H.
Mr H was dissatisfied by Barclays response to his complaint. But I havent found Barclays 
reviewed his complaint unreasonably. Mr H may have expected a more formal and 
prolonged back and forth communication about his complaint, but Barclays understood the 
brunt of what it was about. It realised Mr H didnt think Barclays could remove his funds and 
that it took too long to return them to him. Barclays gave him its opinion and it issued a final 
response letter referring to our service. So, ultimately Mr H wasnt prevented from making 
the points he wanted to get across.
Mr H raised several losses for which he wants compensation. These include redress for the 
time he took away from work, charged at his hourly rate, and the costs he incurred bringing 
this complaint.
We are a free and informal service and do not have the same procedures or formality of a court of law. And we are inquisitorial in approach, so we decide what information we need 
from either party to reach a decision we feel is fair. So, although a complainant may decide 
to invest considerable time to present their complaint and complaint points  we would 
generally not award compensation for the costs they incurred doing so. It is usual to expect a 
complainant to experience some level of inconvenience by making a complaint. And, I 
havent seen anything which would lead me to compensate Mr H for his efforts in setting out 
his complaint.
Our service also doesnt generally award compensation based on someones hourly rate. 
We wouldnt usually value one persons time as worth more than another persons time. 
Instead, we consider the overall impact an error had on someone.
Mr H made many phone calls to the government department and Barclays during work 
hours. He understandably wanted to prompt Barclays into resolving the matter more quickly. 
And he often had to wait a while before getting to speak to someone. He was frustrated he 
couldnt get through to the fraud department when he wanted. But banks can have very busy 
periods, and I note much of the calls occurred during a time when many banks services 
were affected by the pandemic, either through reduced capacity or increased call volume. 
So, I am not awarding compensation for the number of times he rang Barclays while it 
awaited receipt of the letter from the government Mr H was trying to get. I see Mr Hs phone 
line often cut out, meaning he had to go through the process again. This was unfortunate, 
but not Barclays fault.
I appreciate that a Barclays relationship banking manager was sympathetic towards Mr H in 
their correspondence with him. And they apologised for how long matters were taking. But I 
do not find that this is an admission of liability by Barclays that it was wrong to remove the 
funds.
Since my provisional decision Barclays has agreed to pay an additional £100. Mr H said he 
doesnt question that Barclays were able to withhold his funds, but he was subject to 
multiple bungling and shabbiness in the way he was treated, which caused him greater 
loss than £300. As both parties responded to my provisional decision, I have proceeded to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. Those reasons are repeated above and form my findings for this decision. 
I have considered Mr Hs response to my provisional decision. I understand he feels he 
should be awarded considerably more in compensation. But I disagree. I find Barclays ought 
to have released his funds earlier than it did, but not as early as Mr H believes. And I havent 
seen persuasive evidence which would warrant a sum greater than £300.
Putting things right
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr H £300 in compensation for the reasons I have 
previously given.My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Subject to Mr H accepting this decision,  
Barclays Bank UK PLC need to pay him redress in line with my direction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman