DRN-2808616
The complaint
Mr A complains that when he made an international payment from Lloyds Bank PLC the full 
details of his foreign bank account were shown on the email receipt. 
What happened
In November 2020 Mr A transferred funds from his account with Lloyds Bank PLC to an 
account he holds with a foreign bank. Mr A says that he received a receipt for this 
transaction from Lloyds in an unencrypted email. On the receipt the details of his Lloyds 
account were redacted. But those of his foreign account were not. The international bank 
account number (IBAN) and bank identifier code (BIC) were shown in full. 
Mr A complained to Lloyds about this. He explained he was concerned that a third party 
could get hold of this information and use it for fraudulent purposes. 
Lloyds didnt feel it had done anything wrong. It said that this information couldnt be used in 
a malicious way. And explained how Mr A could opt out of receiving a receipt for payment 
requests if he wished.  
Mr A wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. He wants 
Lloyds to amend the information provided on its receipts to only show the last 3 digits of the 
IBAN and the start of the BIC of the recipient bank account.
Our investigator considered the matter and didnt find Lloyds had done anything wrong. The 
investigator said he was satisfied that someone wouldnt be able to use an IBAN and BIC for 
fraudulent purposes. He also explained that our service is not able to ask Lloyds to change 
its policies and procedures. 
Mr A remains concerned that Lloyds is not affording enough protection to his foreign account 
details. So this case has been passed to me to review and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr A will be very disappointed by my decision, but Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Firstly, I think it would be helpful for me to reiterate that this service looks at individual 
complaints between a business and a consumer. Where something has gone wrong wed 
look for the business to put the consumer, in as far as is possible, back into the position they 
would have been in if it hadnt. 
Its not the role of this service to review wider business practices or ask a business to make 
changes to its general policies and procedures. That would fall under the remit of the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Im not able to do as Mr A asks here - 
which is to tell Lloyds to amend the information it shows on its international payment 
receipts. 
Its also not my role to consider how secure Lloyds policy of sending information by email is. 
Thats a matter that would be better looked at by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). 
Mr A has pointed out that Lloyds redacted the information related to his Lloyds account on 
his payment receipt. He feels it did this for security purposes, and that the same steps 
should have been taken in respect of his foreign account information. 
When we asked Lloyds about the matter it said that due to the structure of an IBAN and a 
BIC the full details are needed for someone to be able to identify that their money has been 
sent to the correct recipient account (which Ive considered may not be an account held by 
the customer themselves). But it feels customers will be able to identify which of their Lloyds 
accounts they have sent the money from using the redacted information shown. 
Lloyds has also explained that an IBAN and BIC in isolation cannot be used for malicious 
purposes. 
I appreciate Mr A still has concerns, but Lloyds is entitled to make its own decision as to 
what information it includes on receipts. And Im satisfied that Lloyds has taken into 
consideration the security of Mr As accounts when making its decision. 
Ive thought about the impact this matter has had on Mr A. I understand that the security of 
his bank account information is very important to him, and I can see he is worried that it 
could be used as part of a scam. But he hasnt suggested that he has been the victim of any 
fraudulent activity as a result of the information shown on his payment receipt. And I can see 
that Lloyds has explained to him how he can opt out of receiving such receipts, which are 
sent using an automated process to the registered email address it holds for the customer. 
It follows that I dont feel there was any real detrimental impact to Mr A in receiving this email 
receipt. I appreciate he is concerned that something might happen should a third party view 
this information. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that he has suffered a financial 
loss. 
As Ive explained, our service cannot ask Lloyds to change its policy regarding the format of 
its payment receipts, or its method of sending them. And whilst I appreciate he does not see 
it as an ideal solution, I am satisfied that when making future payments Mr A can choose not 
to have receipts emailed to him if he is not comfortable receiving them. So I wont be asking 
Lloyds to take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Jenette LynchOmbudsman