DRN-2772027
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) have unfairly 
declined cover for all the repairs needed to his car following a collision.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr M collided with a deer.  His car was damaged.  So he contacted his 
motor insurers, Admiral, to arrange repairs to the front of his car.
For some time before the collision, a dashboard warning light had been lit up on Mr Ms car.  
He and his mechanic had been monitoring this.
Mr Ms car was repaired by Admirals approved repairer.  When they told Mr M his car was 
finished, he arranged to collect it.  But, when he started it, two warning lights lit up.  One was 
the light Mr M knew about.  The second related to the cars braking system.  Mr M said he 
thought this made the car unsafe to drive, so he refused to drive the car and left it with the 
repairer.
The approved repairer agreed to have the warning lights investigated by the main 
dealership.  Following this, they said that both lights were illuminated because of the known 
fault  which wasnt related to the collision.  So they said theyd completed the work theyd 
been asked to do, returned Mr Ms car to him on a transporter lorry and collected their 
courtesy car  leaving Mr M without a car he considered safe to drive.
Mr M thought the second light was lit because of something the approved repairer had done 
while repairing the car.  So he thought Admiral should deal with rectifying this.  When 
Admiral refused to do this, Mr M complained.
Admiral investigated his complaint.  They paid Mr M £75 compensation for shortcomings in 
the service he received from them and their approved repairer.  But they said that the 
second warning light in his car was related to the first one  which Mr M already knew about 
- and wasnt related to the collision.  So they said they wouldnt remedy the problem as part 
of the claim.
After hed heard from Admiral, Mr M arranged for his own investigation of what had caused 
the second warning light to light up.  This identified a problem with the turbo boost pipe.  This 
was refitted, and the second warning light disappeared  leaving only the first one lit. 
Mr M understood the turbo boost pipe would have been disturbed by the repairs done by the 
approved repairer.  He contacted Admiral to get them to reconsider their response to his 
complaint.  But Admiral didnt change their decision.  So Mr M brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator considered the evidence and thought that Admiral should cover the costs Mr 
M had incurred to diagnose and rectify the issue with the turbo boost pipe. And she said that 
they should pay interest on those costs.  But she thought the amount of the compensation 
Admiral had paid Mr M was about right for the inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr M agreed with the investigators view.  But Admiral didnt.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute here that Mr Ms insurance policy covers him for repairing damage 
caused to his car in an accident.  Whats in issue is whether everything Mr M needed 
remedying was caused by his collision with a deer  or the work done to repair that.  
Im not an expert.  So I have to rely on the evidence of the experts in this case  each sides 
repairers  to make my decision.  The experts dont agree.  So I need to think about whats 
most likely to have caused the second warning light to have been lit when Mr M went to 
collect his car.
Mr Ms told us he didnt see the second light when he drove his car away from the collision, 
or when he took it to Admirals approved repairer. Nothing Ive seen suggests thats wrong.  
So the most logical reason for the light being on when he collected the car is that something 
happened to the car while it was outside Mr Ms care.
The report Admirals repairer obtained from the main dealer tells me two lights were on and 
the dealer diagnosed the known fault relating to the first warning light.  It doesnt say the fault 
would also cause the second warning light to come on.  I havent seen any notes from 
Admiral which show me why they think the two are linked.
By contrast, Mr Ms repairer diagnosed an issue with the turbo boost pipe.  And  most 
persuasively  when that was repaired, the second warning light disappeared, leaving only 
the first.  So I think the most likely reason for the second light to have been on was because 
of the problem with the turbo boost pipe.
But I also have to be satisfied that this problem was caused by the collision, or the repair 
work.  And I think, on balance, it was.  The warning light wasnt on before the car when to 
the approved repairer.  It was after the work had been done.  And the collision caused 
damage to the cars bumper, which was removed and replaced during the repairs.  
The report from Mr Ms repairer includes a photograph showing the bumper fits directly over 
the turbo boost pipe.  Im satisfied from this that whats most likely to have happened is that 
the pipe was disturbed during the repair of the bumper - and is, therefore, a consequence of 
the accident.  
Putting things right
Mr M has had to pay for the issue with the turbo boost pipe to be diagnosed and repaired.  
Ive seen two invoices dated 13 November 2020 which show he paid a total of £264.59 for 
the problem to be identified and a third invoice dated 19 November 2020 showing he paid 
£325.02 for repairs.  Given the conclusion Ive come to, I think Admiral should reimburse Mr 
M for those costs.  And they should pay interest on those sums at the rate of 8%.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited and directing Admiral to pay him:£264.59 to reimburse Mr M for the diagnostic costs hes incurred;
£325.02 for the repair costs;
Interest on those sums at the rate of 8% from the dates of the invoices until the date 
of payment.  If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman