DRN-3045592
The complaint
Mr P is complaining Close Brothers Limited has taken money regarding a running account 
agreement he took out to pay for a contents insurance.
Mr P is represented by his father  Mr P2  in this complaint.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr P2 set up a contents insurance policy for Mr P through a broker. He 
applied for the policy online. Mr P2 says Mr P has a mental health condition, which is why 
Mr P2 set up the policy on Mr Ps behalf. He says he also pays for Mr Ps insurance policies. 
Mr P2 chose to pay for the policy through monthly instalments. To enable him to do so he 
took out a finance agreement in Mr Ps name with Close Brothers. Close Brothers paid the 
annual premium on Mr Ps behalf and Mr P agreed in return to repay this in line with the 
terms of the finance agreement. The monthly payments were taken from Mr P2s bank 
account.
In December 2020 Mr Ps policy automatically renewed. In January 2021 Mr P2 complained 
Close Brothers took a payment from his bank account. He said he didnt consent to the 
policy renewing or for Close Brothers to take any payments from his bank account. He also 
said Mr P didnt sign the credit agreement so he didnt think Close Brothers had authority to 
take payments from his account.
Close Brothers didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said it didnt need the credit agreement to 
be signed to take payments. And it said it was for the broker to say Mr P hadnt renewed the 
policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said we were only considering the actions 
of Close Brothers in this complaint and she said we couldnt consider the actions of the 
broker. She said, not signing the credit agreement, doesnt make the agreement null and 
void. She said we look at what benefit the consumer has received from the agreement. And 
she said Mr P had received the benefit of the insurance policies. So she didnt think Close 
Brothers needed to refund what Mr P had paid.
Mr P2 didnt agree with the investigator. He maintained that he didnt consent to the policy 
renewing and he said he told the broker he didnt want Mr Ps policy to renew. He reiterated 
the credit agreement wasnt signed. So he doesnt think Close Brothers had consent to take 
money from his bank account.
As Mr P2 didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
I should first set out that Im only considering the actions of Close Brothers as a finance 
provider in this complaint. Mr P2 has expressed a number of concerns about the actions of 
the broker. But the broker is not a party to this complaint and Im unable to consider their 
actions in this complaint.
I think it would be helpful to first set out that Mr P entered into two separate contracts here  
a contract of insurance and a separate contract of finance to pay the insurance policys 
annual premium. Both contracts were entirely separate. The broker arranged both the 
insurance policy and the finance agreement. Close Brothers provided the finance 
agreement. While the finance agreement funded the annual premium, Close Brothers didnt 
provide or arrange the insurance policy. So it isnt responsible for anything that did or didnt 
happen with that contract.
Mr P2 says Mr P didnt consent to the insurance policy renewing. But, as I said above, Im 
unable to consider this as part of this complaint. Mr P will need to raise this with the broker 
directly if he wishes to take this issue further.
As I said, in this decision Im considering the complaint Mr P2 has raised about Close 
Brothers handling of the finance agreement. In particular hes said Mr P didnt sign the credit 
agreement, so didnt consent to Close Brothers taking payments. 
In essence, Mr P2 says the credit agreement wasnt properly executed so it isnt 
enforceable. In considering this Ive had regard to S61(1)(a) Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) which provides that a regulated credit agreement is not properly executed unless its 
signed in the prescribed manner both by the debtor or hirer and by or on behalf of the 
creditor or owner. 
Theres no dispute the agreement wasnt signed, electronically or otherwise. So it appears 
as though the contract wasnt properly executed because Mr P didnt sign it. The CCA sets 
out that, where a regulated agreement isnt signed, it can only be enforced by a court. This 
means that if a business sought to enforce a credit agreement which hasnt been signed, it 
would need to get a court order to enable it to do so. 
Case law has previously considered what would be considered enforcement of a credit 
agreement. And this suggests that Close Brothers simply politely requiring Mr P to make his 
contractual repayments wouldnt be considered enforcement  which is what appears to 
have happened in this case. In taking the monthly payments, its simply carrying out what it 
was entitled to do under the terms of the finance agreement.
Its important to note that this service is not a court and so it isnt able to make a declaration 
of enforceability, but I can look at whether Close Brothers treated Mr P fairly and reasonably. 
Ultimately, Ive not seen anything to show that Close Brothers has looked to enforce the 
agreement, as Mr P has made all the monthly repayments on time with no issues or 
demand. And, even if the agreement wasnt properly executed, it doesnt automatically follow 
that it was invalid.
The courts have previously ruled that in certain circumstances  particularly where the 
consumer has derived a benefit from the finance agreement  the agreement is enforceable.
Ultimately, just because the agreement wasnt properly executed, it doesnt mean that the 
agreement is null and void. It seems to me that Mr P was keen to pay for the insurance policy monthly. Entering into a credit agreement enabled him to do so  the alternative would 
be that hed have had to pay the premium in full up front. Given this, Im satisfied Mr P has 
had a benefit of the finance. So I think its fair and reasonable that he should pay for it.
I should also state that, when the broker renewed the insurance policy, Mr P didnt take out a 
new finance agreement. Mr P had a type of finance agreement called a running account 
credit agreement. With this agreement, Close Brothers provided a credit facility upon which 
the broker could draw upon to pay the annual premium and Mr P then repaid that amount. 
The broker first did so when Mr P first took out the policy and did so again at renewal. And 
Close Brothers fairly allowed the broker to do so under the term of the finance agreement.
Ultimately the finance agreement was arranged by the broker. Mr P2  on Mr Ps behalf  
would have consented to taking out the finance agreement when he applied for the 
insurance policy online. He also would have completed a direct debit mandate to agree to 
Close Brothers taking monthly payments from his account. If he doesnt think he did so, or it 
wasnt made clear he was doing so, he will need to raise this with the broker. Furthermore, 
Mr P2 says he didnt consent to Mr Ps policy automatically renewing, but hell need to raise 
that with the broker too as Close Brothers is not responsible for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman