DRN-3678066
The complaint
Mr A complains about the handling of a chargeback claim he made to Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case
here, it might be possible to make a chargeback claim to dispute the transaction and
potentially to reverse it.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Barclays, its administered by Visa and
they set the rules. Barclays didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good
practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
Barclays did submit a claim and when the merchant defended it they were also prepared to 
take the claim to the next stage and to arbitrate it. To do that they needed additional 
information from Mr A. I dont agree that they had sufficient information as the merchants 
pushbacks suggested, at that point, that they had provided the service that had been paid 
for.
I understand that Mr A didnt receive the letter Barclays sent to him asking for more 
information to support his claim. But Barclays had explained on the set up call that they 
would send a letter, and although Mr A had mentioned hed prefer an email they hadnt 
confirmed that was possible. Barclays have also explained that Mr A would have received a 
notification through his app that new correspondence had been sent. So, I think Barclays did 
what could reasonably be expected of them to communicate the need for further information 
to Mr A.
Unfortunately, as Mr A didnt provide the additional information in the necessary timeframe 
Barclays couldnt continue to arbitrate his claim. Im considering whether Barclays were fair 
and reasonable here and I think they were. They were fair to raise a chargeback, 
communicated the need for more information and, when that information wasnt received 
they needed to recoup the money they had provisionally returned to Mr A when the claim 
was initiated.
I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman