DRN-4125794
The complaint
Mr U complains that Starling Bank Limited restricted and then closed his account without 
notice. He says that this meant that he could not pay his rent and other bills, and he 
therefore had to take out an expensive loan to provide funds. 
What happened
On 8 February 2022 Mr U received six payments into his account with Starling Bank. Shortly 
afterwards, he tried to transfer funds to another account. The bank however stopped that 
transaction and contacted Mr U to ask him about the activity on the account. When asked 
about the individuals who had paid him, Mr U said:
The payers are all friends of mine and I have asked each and every one of them to lend me 
a certain amount of money so I can be able to pay for some services provided.
Starling Bank asked Mr U to provide evidence of the service to which he was referring. Mr U 
said:
Not a service provided to mine friends, I meant services provided as in something I bought 
that I need to pay for.
Starling Bank reviewed the transactions on the account and considered Mr Us response to 
its questions about them. It contacted him on 4 March 2022 to say that it was closing the 
account and sending him a cheque for the balance on it. The cheque, it said, would be sent 
within 10 working days. It was posted on 15 March 2022, and Mr U received it the following 
day.
Between 8 February 2022 and the account closure Mr U contacted the bank on several 
occasions to try to find out what was happening. After the account was closed and the 
money held in it was paid to him, he remained unhappy about what had happened and so 
referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He said, in summary:    
The bank was within its rights to review the account and to restrict while it did so.
The review was carried out in a timely manner.
The bank was also within its rights to close the account; it did not have to give its 
reasons for doing so.
It acted within a reasonable timescale in sending the cheque. 
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr U did not accept that 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for broadly the same reasons.
The bank explained to Mr U that it wanted some more information about the payments 
received on 8 February 2022. As the investigator indicated, the bank was within its rights to 
review the account  including seeking information from Mr U  and to restrict it while it 
carried out that review. In my view, the banks actions were reasonable.
I believe too that Starling Bank completed its review within a reasonable timeframe and 
communicated its decision to close the account promptly. 
It is generally for a bank to decide whether to provide, or to continue to provide, banking 
services to any particular customers. This service will not usually interfere with the legitimate 
exercise of a banks commercial discretion in such matters, and I see no reason to do so 
here. And a bank does not have to give reasons for closing an account. 
A bank should also give reasonable notice before closing an account. What is reasonable 
depends on the circumstances, although in most cases 60 days is sufficient. But banks can 
in some cases close accounts without notice, and I note that Starling Banks terms allow it to 
do so. I think it was reasonable in this case. The closure of the account without notice meant 
that Mr U received his money sooner than might otherwise have been the case, since it was 
restricted. 
I also agree with the investigator that the cheque was processed and sent to Mr U within a 
reasonable period. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Us complaint and do not 
require Starling Bank Limited to do anything more to resolve his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman