DRN-2784720
The complaint
Mr C and Mr G have complained that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) 
werent able to complete chargebacks on two transactions and they were provided with 
conflicting information.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr C made a purchase from an online retailer using his debit card for his joint 
account with Danske Bank. He then cancelled the order and requested a refund. A refund 
was received but a further two transactions were later claimed by the retailer. One for 
£399.96 and another for £376.63. Mr C unsuccessfully attempted to obtain refunds through 
the retailer. So, Mr C asked Danske to complete chargeback requests for both transactions. 
Mr C thought that progress with the chargeback requests was too slow. So, he complained 
to Danske on 20 July 2020. They said that the delay processing his requests was because 
they hadnt received all the information requested from him. Danske had asked for this again 
on 17 July 2020, but Mr C said that he hadnt received this request. He told Danske he was 
struggling to get the information they needed because the online retailer had removed his 
access to the account with them.
Danske spoke with Mr C on 23 July 2020 about his complaint. They explained the charge 
back rules relating to his card and what other information they needed. They said they 
couldnt progress his request without this. Danske then confirmed this in a letter dated 23 
July 2020, in response to Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C then received a further letter from Danske dated 27 July 2020. They said that theyd 
requested a chargeback for the two transactions, despite what theyd said in their previous 
letter. They explained that the process can take up to four months to complete.
Mr C raised another complaint with Danske by secure mail on 22 September 2020. He told 
them hed received two letters close together. He thought that the two letters were conflicting 
and confusing.
Danske replied to Mr Cs secure mail by letter dated 28 September 2020. They said that 
after their discussion of 23 July 2020, theyd explained the situation to their Card Operations 
department. Theyd also received a statement of events from Mr C on that date. Theyd 
reviewed Mr Cs dispute again and agreed to raise chargeback claims as requested.
On 26 October 2020, the online retailer represented the transaction for £376.63. So, Danske 
wrote to Mr C to let him know. They sent copies of the information provided by the retailer 
together with a form to complete if he wanted to challenge their response. Danske told him 
the form should be returned to them by 9 November 2020. They also sent text messages to 
Mr C on 26 October 2020 and 2 November 2020.
On 4 November 2020, the online retailer represented the transaction for £399.96. So, 
Danske wrote to Mr C to let him know. They enclosed another form for him to complete if he 
wanted to challenge this transaction. They said that this form should be returned to them by 
18 November 2020. Mr C returned this form to Danske on 17 November 2020. 
Danske used the information on the single form returned to them by Mr C to challenge both 
transactions. The challenge for £376.63 was declined by the scheme operator. They said it 
wasnt received by Danske by 9 November 2020. Danske told Mr C about this in a letter 
dated 19 November 2020.
On 12 February 2021, Mr C received a refund for the chargeback claim of £399.96 into his 
joint account with Mr G.
Mr C and Mr G remained unhappy with the service theyd received from Danske. So, they 
asked our service to consider their complaints. One of our investigators looked into the 
circumstances of the complaints. He didnt think that Danske had done anything wrong here. 
Mr C and Mr G disagreed with our investigators findings. So, they asked for their complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reviewing Mr C and Mr Gs complaints, its important to understand how chargebacks for 
debit card transactions operate. The chargeback system is intended to resolve disputed 
transactions between a cardholder and a merchant (retailer). Chargeback is a voluntary 
process run by the card scheme. Debit cards are issued by a bank. Chargeback is operated 
by the card scheme, not the bank.
Any chargeback claim must conform with the scheme rules. For a bank to submit a 
successful chargeback request, theyll ask the cardholder to provide certain information 
relating to the transaction. This is to ensure that the claim meets the requirements set by the 
card scheme. Without this information, a claim cant be made.
Once the bank receives the information required, a charge back claim can be made. The 
card issuer (here its Danske) will then normally provide their customer with a temporary 
refund. If the retailer defends the claim, its called a representment. The retailer will provide 
details of their defence together with any documents to support it. If this happens, the card 
holder may be given the opportunity to challenge this. There is normally a limited period of 
time to challenge the retailers defence.
Where a cardholder provides a challenge, its the role of the scheme operator to decide who 
wins based upon their chargeback rules. Its not the banks role to do this.
A chargeback or challenge needs to be submitted for each transaction. They cant be 
combined. Each one requires its own supporting information and documentation. There are 
strict timescales dictated by each scheme operator. If the information required is not 
received or is received late, a successful claim or challenge cant be made. 
Mr C contacted Danske to request chargeback claims for the two transactions. But Danske 
didnt have enough information to submit the claims in line with the scheme operators rules. 
Mr C said that he couldnt access his retailer account to obtain this information. I realise that 
this wouldve been extremely frustrating for Mr C. But I cant hold Danske responsible for 
this. Danske explained this to Mr C and wrote confirming that they couldnt make a claim 
because they didnt have sufficient information at that point in time. I can understand why 
Danske did that here and it was right that they kept Mr C informed.
Following Mr Cs discussion with Danske on 23 July 2020, Danske received a statement of 
events from him. This was referred to their Card Processing department. Having reviewed 
this, they then agreed to attempt a claim based upon this information. They used this 
information to make claims for both transactions. Their position had changed because theyd 
received the statement of events from Mr C. This prompted their letter of 27 July 2020. I 
realise that this seemed to contradict their letter of 23 July 2020. But it appears that the 
statement of events was received and reviewed after this letter had been prepared. This is 
unfortunate and I can understand why Mr C was confused here.The retailer represented one transaction on 26 October 2020 and the other on 4 November 
2020 and provided their defence for each one. Danske sent this information to Mr C together 
with PCC forms to complete. A PCC form is a Progressive Cardholders Complaint form. 
These are required by the card scheme so that Mr C could challenge the retailers defence 
for each transaction, if he wanted to. This is what I would expect Danske to do here so that 
Mr C could comply with the card schemes requirements. 
Danske said the first completed form needed to be returned by 9 November 2020. But they 
dont appear to have received this from Mr C. They said the completed form for the second 
transaction needed to be returned by 18 November 2020. This was received from Mr C by 
Danske on 17 November 2020. 
Despite not receiving both forms, Danske attempted to challenge both representations using 
the one form received. The first was declined by the scheme operator as it hadnt been 
received in time. Unfortunately, I cant hold Danske responsible for this. They had made the 
form return date clear to Mr C but dont appear to have received it. Its the scheme operators 
final decision whether a challenge is accepted, not Danskes.
The second challenge was successful, and Mr C and Mr G have been refunded £399.96 as 
a result of this.
I realise that Mr C and Mr G will be disappointed, but in these circumstances, I cant see that 
Danske have acted inappropriately here. Theyd explained to Mr C about the information 
they required. Theyd also provided the necessary instructions and forms to enable the 
retailers representment and defence to be challenged. Unfortunately, not all of this was 
received in time. Having considered all of this, I wont be asking Danske to do anything more 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr C and Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman