DRN-4321256
The complaint
Ms M complains that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) unfairly avoided her motor insurance 
policy and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
Ms M took out a motor insurance policy with Covea through an online insurance price 
comparison site. 
After she was involved in an incident in her vehicle she contacted Covea to try and make a 
claim.
 
Covea said shed answered the question it asked about modifications to her vehicle 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to avoid her policy, decline her claim because of this and keep the premium shed 
already paid
Ms M brought her complaint to us, and our investigator thought it should be upheld. They 
agreed Ms M had made a misrepresentation when applying for her policy, in failing to 
declare the various modifications to her vehicle. But they were not satisfied Covea had 
established that Ms Ms misrepresentation was either deliberate or reckless. They were of 
the view that it should be treated as a careless misrepresentation and Covea should refund 
her policy premiums.  
Covea doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
said a vehicle is considered modified if it has been changed in any way since it was first 
supplied by the manufacturer. It said if Ms M was unsure whether changes to the vehicle 
were classed as a modification she should have checked before purchasing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks Ms M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
stated in her application for a motor insurance policy that the vehicle had no modifications. 
Ive looked at the question asked on the online insurance comparison site. It asks if the  
vehicle has any modifications. Ms M answered no to this question. I saw there was also 
guidance given on the site to support this question. It said modifications are non-standard 
changes made after manufacture, including new spoilers, alloy wheels etc.
I do not think Ms M took reasonable care to answer this question accurately. I saw Ms Ms 
vehicle was modified and the modifications included alloy wheels, side steps, rear roof 
spoiler, tinted glass, and a non-standard front bumper.
Covea has provided evidence of its unwriting criteria that shows it would never have offered 
her cover if it had been made aware the vehicle was modified.
This means Im satisfied Ms Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Covea has said Ms Ms misrepresentation was reckless because the vehicle was modified, 
and she failed to disclose this.
Although I agree that she made a misrepresentation when she failed to disclose the 
modifications, I do not think there is any evidence to be certain this was reckless. Ms M said 
she bought the vehicle as it was and as the modifications had been carried out prior to the 
purchase she was not aware that it had been modified. I am not convinced there is any 
evidence that Ms M deliberately answered the application question regarding modifications 
incorrectly. I dont agree that Ms Ms misrepresentation was reckless
As Im satisfied Ms Ms misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Covea can take in accordance with the remedies detailed in CIDRA. Covea are able 
to
avoid the policy from the point of misrepresentation, which in this case is the start of the 
policy in January 2023 
not deal with the claim
return any unused premiums.
In this case Covea avoided Ms Ms policy back to the start, did not pay her claim and did not 
refund the premiums paid.
As Im satisfied Ms Ms misrepresentation was careless not reckless or deliberate, I dont 
think Covea are acting fairly by not refunding her premiums.
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint is Covea should avoid the policy from the point of 
misrepresentation, which was the start of the policy, not deal with Ms Ms claim, and return 
the premiums paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I require Covea to record this as a careless misrepresentation and return the policy 
premiums paid to Ms M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman