DRN-1661025
Complaint
Ms D says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly provided 
unaffordable credit to her.                           
Background
This complaint is about one running account credit facility and thirteen high-cost short term 
credit loans that Sunny provided to Ms D between April 2014 and October 2015. 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ds complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been provided 
with any further credit after the eighth drawdown of the running account facility in October 
2014. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms D, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Ms D was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a sustainable manner when it provided Ms D with her ninth drawdown on her running account 
facility. 
I say this because by this stage, it ought to have been apparent to Sunny that Ms Ds use of 
her open-ended facility suggested that there was no reasonable prospect of her clearing the 
balance within the period of time set out in the agreement, or even a reasonable period of 
time. And it also ought to have been apparent that Ms D was relying on the facility too. 
Sunny then transitioned Ms D from a facility which its own product literature said shouldnt 
be used for extended periods to a series of instalment loans which had the same effect.   Ms 
D then exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further loans not too long after repaying 
previous ones. Sunny continued lending to Ms D even when this pattern was repeated and 
in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans were 
more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Ms D had to pay interest and charges on credit that Sunny shouldnt have provided her with. 
So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Ms D paid on all credit granted from 30 October 2014 
onwards;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
all information about Ms Ds instalment loans should be removed from her credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
I understand that wrote off a balance on instalment loan 13 in June 2019. Sunny can deduct 
unpaid capital included in the written off balance from the compensation it now needs to pay 
Ms D should it wish to do so.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Ds complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Ms D compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman