DRN-3565145
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt do enough to protect him from losing 
money to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr D has explained that in 2018 he was persuaded by Golden Markets to pay a significant 
amount of money  over numerous payments  to an investment. He started making the 
payments in April 2018, the vast majority of which were made from bank accounts not held 
with HSBC (and therefore not the subject of this complaint). 
Mr Ds complaint about HSBC is about the following payments he made to the investment 
using his First Direct debit and credit cards: 
Mr D subsequently came to realise hed been scammed by Golden Markets, and he got in 
touch with HSBC about this. Ultimately, apart from crediting £50 to Mr Ds account for 
service issues, HSBC didnt refund the lost payments to Mr D. Mr D therefore referred his 
complaint about HSBC to us. As our investigator was unable to resolve matters informally, 
the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The credit card payment  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75)
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint about the 
credit card payment on the basis that HSBC is liable under s.75. As a starting point, its 
useful to set out what s.75 actually says:
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.

Payment 
no. DateType of 
payment MerchantAmount 
(£)Fee 
(£) Total (£)
115 June 
2018Debit 
card ZM broker 882.21 24.26 906.47
217 July 
2018Credit 
card FINMARKET.TRADEFINMARKET 3,984.80 119.15 4,103.95
Total 4,867.01 143.41 5,010.42(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim  
a) under a non-commercial agreement,
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item which the supplier has 
attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise, there must therefore be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to the transaction;
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item to which the supplier attached a cash 
price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000.
Ill deal with each of these requirements in turn. 
First, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain of Mr 
D (the debtor), HSBC (the creditor), and Golden Markets (the supplier).
Ive noted that Mr D paid Finmarket.Tradefinmarket using his credit card, and Ive noted this 
merchant corresponds with other cases at this service where Golden Markets is listed as the 
supplier in dispute. This suggests to me that Finmarket.Tradefinmarket was doing no more 
than processing the payment on behalf of Golden Markets. 
But where a payment processor is used in a credit card transaction, it doesnt break the DCS 
chain, it just creates a four-party agreement. Weve published final decisions on this issue.
Here Finmarket.Tradefinmarket (and any Merchant Acquirer present) appears to be in the 
business of providing financial transactional services for Golden Markets. The transactional 
services provided here have effectively been outsourced to them by the parties. And clearly 
the network in this case had arrangements with Finmarket.Tradefinmarket (and any 
Merchant Acquirer) and HSBC would be able to know of the parties within the arrangement 
here and the respective offerings provided prior to the transaction in this case by dint of 
Finmarket.Tradefinmarket and any Merchant Acquirer being users of the network used here. 
In absence of any evidence from HSBC that Finmarket.Tradefinmarket was doing more than 
just processing the payment in this agreement, Im satisfied that there is no break in the DCS 
chain. I appreciate that HSBC has argued that Finmarket is a Cyprus regulated Forex broker 
which still appears to be in existence. However, as weve explained to the parties, 
Finmarket.Tradefinmarket appears to be a different entity to the Finmarket HSBC has 
referred to here (as the Cyprus regulated Forex broker). So this doesnt change my mind 
about this. 
  
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of the deal. Here, Mr D 
deposited funds for use on an investment platform and to be able to withdraw them as and 
when he wished. Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  
Im satisfied there was a transaction for this deposit (which Ill call the deposit-transaction) 
as defined by the Act. 
To finance (or financed by the agreement) is also not defined under the Act. An ordinary 
definition would be to provide funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB 
Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal 
agreed, The phrase to finance Approaching the matter in a common sense way, the phrase must mean provide financial accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer 
clearly provides financial accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his purchases from 
suppliers, because he is given time to pay for his purchases under the terms of the credit 
card agreement.  
Applying this ordinary definition here, if Mr D had not used his credit card he would have had 
to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit-transaction. So, its clear that the 
deposit-transaction was financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract must relate to the transaction. Its 
important to consider what Mr Ds claim is here. Its evident from his testimony and 
correspondence that he feels he was tricked into depositing the payments with Golden 
Markets which had the dual purpose of:
a) stealing the deposit money; and
b) encouraging Mr D to deposit further amounts. 
Mr D does not believe that Golden Markets was operating legitimately and believes he was 
misled into thinking it was.
This claim, that Mr D was misled into depositing funds, is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
In this case, if Mr D was told by Golden Markets matters that were factually untrue to trick 
him into the deposit-transaction, his claim would be for misrepresentation. Or, if Golden 
Markets made binding promises to him as part of the transaction and went on to breach 
these, that would make his claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
HSBC seems to take the position that the deposit was nothing more than transferring money 
onto another account, opened for the purpose of speculating with the money, rather than 
being a payment for the purchase of goods or services. However, when funds are deposited 
onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of money between accounts; the 
deposit may also have been made in return for something. And in this case, I am satisfied 
Golden Markets made contractual promises in exchange for the deposit-transaction. Its 
important to note that s.75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is there 
anything within the Act that would exclude the present type of transactions.  
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to this credit card deposit-
transaction. Ill therefore go on to consider whether Mr D has a valid claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mr D has made a claim of misrepresentation by Golden Markets  that claim being 
that it represented to him that it was a legitimate enterprise when this was not the case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show a false statement of 
fact and that this induced Mr D into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of factIf Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise  one 
through which Mr D could have ever received back more money than he deposited  then it 
follows that any statements made by Golden Markets to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr D could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied, based on Mr Ds account of events and the overall circumstances, 
that Golden Markets did state that Mr D could make money from the trading platform. 
that induced Mr D into entering the agreement
Again, if Golden Markets was essentially a scam designed to relieve investors of their 
money, rather than a legitimate service  and if Mr D had known this  theres really little 
question: he would not have invested with Golden Markets. Consequently, should I be 
satisfied that Golden Markets wasnt a legitimate enterprise then inducement will also be 
demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Ive found Mr Ds account of events persuasive.  
On 25 May 2018 (almost two months before Mr Ds credit card payment), the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) published an alert about Golden Markets, warning that it was 
offering financial services in its jurisdiction without authorisation.
HSBC says this FCA warning isnt evidence that Golden Markets was operating a scam, but 
merely that it wasnt regulated and customers should proceed with caution. However, binary 
options/forex traders offering services in the UK were required to be regulated by the FCA at 
the time of Mr Ds payment, and Golden Markets wasnt. Nor was Golden Markets licensed 
or regulated abroad as far as Im reasonably aware. There are also many online reviews 
from victims that share similar experiences to that of Mr D.
I understand that Mr D did receive some credits back from Golden Markets but these were 
received into accounts not held with HSBC, and were in relation to those separate accounts. 
Theres nothing unusual about victims receiving some credits from scam investments like 
this. Typically, its done to hook the victim in and to keep them sufficiently satisfied and 
placated, to potentially induce them into further deposits. And as the credits were received in 
respect of payments made to Golden Markets not through Mr Ds HSBC account, Im 
satisfied the credits arent applicable to this complaint about HSBC.
Taking everything together, I think its most likely that Golden Markets was not operating a 
legitimate enterprise. This means that I think it made misrepresentations to Mr D  
specifically that it was a genuine enterprise through which he could have got back more than 
his deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mr D had known this, he wouldnt 
have deposited any money, so he was induced into the contract on the basis of these 
misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, is that they are entitled to recover from the 
wrongdoer all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities v Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that 
must be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation; and
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction fee
The transaction fee linked to the credit card deposit-transaction is somewhat straight forward 
to cover off. Had the deposit-transaction not have occurred, the transaction fee couldnt have 
occurred. The transaction fee was a direct consequence of the deposit-transactions. So, 
Im satisfied Mr Ds payment of the transaction fee was consequential loss in 
misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract 
Ive not considered breach of contract because Im satisfied Mr D can claim back the full 
amount taken from his credit card through a claim under misrepresentation.
The debit card payment
Section 75 (above) doesnt apply to the debit card payment. So Ive instead considered 
whether HSBC ought reasonably to have prevented this debit card payment to the scam 
before it was processed.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time in many decisions, both to HSBC and published on our website. 
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, and 
what I consider to have been good practice at the time, I consider HSBC ought fairly and 
reasonably to:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I understand Mr Ds payment did flag on HSBCs systems for a check before it allowed the 
transaction through  and HSBC consequently spoke to Mr D (before allowing the 
transaction through). HSBC hasnt provided us with a recording of that call, so I cant know 
for certain what was discussed. However, I understand that HSBC says during the call Mr D 
confirmed the payment was genuine and so it then allowed the transaction to go through. HSBC ought well to understand that an authorised scam (like this one, where Mr D 
authorised the payment but was nonetheless scammed), is  by definition  authorised by 
the customer. HSBC ought therefore to very well understand that asking a customer to 
confirm whether a transaction is genuine or not, without surrounding context and potential 
probing, is insufficient to fully protect a customer from the potential of financial harm. 
There may be cases where its reasonable enough for a bank to undertake basic enquiries 
with the customer about authorisation of the transaction (for example by text message), 
rather than a fuller interaction with the customer to establish the context behind the payment 
(to protect customers from the risk of authorised scams). But here, HSBC called Mr D to 
discuss the payment. HSBC therefore had a clear and natural opportunity  during this call  
to ask Mr D for some basic context behind the payment. So, rather than just establishing Mr 
D recognised the transaction as one he had authorised and that he was happy to proceed 
with it, HSBC could easily and naturally  and reasonably ought to have  obtained some 
basic context, and to have proceeded appropriately from there, to ensure Mr D wasnt about 
to fall victim to fraud and scams that a bank like HSBC ought reasonably be aware of and 
able to help customers avoid. Given the nature of the payment and the point behind a 
payment like this flagging on HSBCs system  and the fact that HSBC called Mr D to 
discuss the transaction before allowing it through  I think HSBC reasonably ought to have 
asked Mr D for the basic surrounding context, and to have then proceeded appropriately 
from there  with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam.
I have not seen evidence that persuades me HSBC did this, however. I think that if it had 
done this, its most likely Mr D would have been open with HSBC and explained the payment 
was for some trading he was doing with Golden Markets  binary options. HSBC would also 
have been aware the payment was directed outside of the UK.  
Regulated firms like HSBC ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As 
long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. 
As Ive already stated, the FCA published a warning about Golden Markets on 25 May 2018 
(before this debit card transaction). And HSBC reasonably ought to have been aware that at 
the time binary options/forex traders offering services in the UK were required to be 
regulated by the FCA. Golden Markets wasnt regulated by the FCA; nor was it licensed or 
regulated abroad as far as Im reasonably aware. 
In such circumstances, whilst HSBC had no duty to protect Mr D from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it could have explained to him that there was a regulatory warning and 
invited him to look more closely into this trader. It could have also explained its own 
customer experiences with unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders is that 
customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances, or from 
withdrawing them entirely until theyd been duped into making more and more payments. 
After all, at that time, there was information in the public domain  which HSBC really ought 
to have known about even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks associated 
with binary options trading, including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds 
June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling 
Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating 
illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report noting victims had lost over £59m to 
binary options fraud; Visas Business News publication of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and investment disputes arising from 
merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying deceptive practices; and so forth). 
After all, Golden Markets isnt new to regulated firms and weve seen several customer 
complaints about this particular dealer. It seems likely that HSBC wouldve seen a number 
of consumer complaints prior to and following the FCAs warning to have been familiar 
enough with this scammers deceptive trading practices.
 
So I think HSBC ought to have at least given Mr D a stern warning about the risks. And 
ultimately, whilst I cant be certain, I think its most likely that Mr D would have taken the 
warnings from HSBC seriously, and decided that the risk of continuing to invest with Golden 
Markets was too high to accept. So I think its most likely that had HSBC done what it 
reasonably ought to have done, Mr D wouldnt have proceeded with this payment. 
Ive considered whether Mr D should bear some responsibility for this payment by way of 
contributory negligence. However, I think Mr D was still at this point totally in the dark and 
simply didnt appreciate what he was doing or the consequences of his actions. I think he 
would have taken notice of a warning from HSBC, but simply was unaware of scams like this 
 and I dont think its appropriate to make a reduction for contributory negligence on this 
occasion.
Putting things right
Ive explained, in relation to the credit card payment, why Im satisfied Mr D has a claim for 
misrepresentation, on the basis that Golden Markets misrepresented matters, namely that it 
was operating a legitimate enterprise and that Mr D could earn a profit from his deposit-
transactions. HSBC should pay Mr D £4,103.95 (the payment plus the fee), plus interest 
from the date of the payments to the date of settlement calculated at 8% simple per year.
With regards to the debit card payment, Ive explained why I dont think Mr D would have 
gone ahead with this if HSBC had done what it reasonably ought to have done. He therefore 
wouldnt have incurred a fee in relation to this payment either. HSBC should therefore pay 
Mr D £906.47 (the payment plus the fee), plus interest from the date of the payments to the 
date of settlement calculated at 8% simple per year.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay Mr D £5,010.42, plus interest calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of the 
payments to the date of settlement. If HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it should provide 
Mr D with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022. 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman