DRN-2058711
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK plc incorrectly told him he had exceeded the credit limit 
on his card and declined a payment on his card.
What happened
Mr H had a credit card account with Santander. The card was declined in April 2019 when 
he was abroad. When he checked his online banking there was a message which said hed 
exceeded his credit limit. He was surprised by this because he says hed arranged for his 
credit card bill to be repaid in full each month by direct debit. So, he contacted Santander.
Mr H phoned Santander but had to call again the next day due to differences in the time 
zone. He says he had to spend a lot of time on the phone with Santander and it couldnt 
explain to him why hed got the online message. He also says that during subsequent 
telephone calls Santander told him he hadnt exceeded his credit limit. Mr H says hes been 
unable to get a copy of the online message despite asking Santander for it.
Mr H arranged a transfer of funds to his credit card account on the day after he got the 
online message. He complained to Santander about what had happened.
Santander investigated his complaint. It said it had correctly set up his direct debit
instructions. It said his card had exceeded the credit limit on the occasion in question but 
that hed made a manual payment to bring the account back within the limit. It said it hadnt 
made any errors. Subsequently Santander offered to pay Mr H £30 by way of compensation 
because it hadnt responded to the point hed raised about the cost of the telephone call. But 
it said that he couldve used other ways to contact it which were free of charge.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this response, so he complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said that he had exceeded the credit limit on 
the card. So, she thought Santander hadnt done anything wrong. She also said he couldve 
contacted Santander using other means which were free. And, she didnt think Santander 
should have to compensate him for the cost of his calls.
Mr H didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive provisionally decided to reach 
a different decision to our investigator. So, Ill explain why.
Mr Hs card was declined when he was abroad. He checked his account online and 
he says there was a message which said hed exceeded the credit limit.
Santander hasnt been able to provide a copy of the online message  even though 
Mr H has asked for it. And, its provided contradictory messages to Mr H. It told him 
in June that hed exceeded his credit limit on the date in question. It then told him in 
July that hed never exceeded his credit limit. But subsequently its said again that 
hed exceeded the credit limit.
In these circumstances Id expect Santander to be able to explain to Mr H why it says 
his credit limit had been exceeded. I think thats a fair and reasonable expectation. 
So, Ive considered the information Santander has provided to try to work out what 
happened.
Ive looked firstly at the direct debit arrangements. Mr H says hed set up a direct 
debit to pay his bill in full each month. He also says Santander told him everything 
was sorted out and he didnt need to worry about anything to do with his card. So, 
when his card was declined he thought something may have gone wrong with the 
direct debit arrangements.
I can see that the direct debit was correctly set up. On the payment due date the 
balance at the end of the previous month was paid in full. But, until the due date for 
payment the outstanding balance wouldnt have been cleared. Any new transactions 
authorised for payment, wouldve increased the outstanding balance. So, even 
though a direct debit was set up the credit limit still applied.
Having thought about what Mr H has said about the assurances he was given, I think 
Santander was referring to not having to worry about missing a payment. It didnt tell 
him there was no need to worry about exceeding the credit limit. The direct debit 
arrangement meant that payments wouldnt be missed. And it is the case that no 
payments were missed. But that didnt mean that the credit limit would never be 
exceeded.
So, Ive considered the position regarding the credit limit on Mr Hs account.
The terms and conditions for the account indicate that the credit limit is the maximum 
amount which can be borrowed at any one time. The credit limit is used when a 
payment is debited from the account. Its also used when a payment is authorised - 
even though the authorised payment hasnt been debited to the account. There can 
be a delay between the date the payment is authorised and the date the account is 
debited. These are sometimes referred to as pending payments.
Ive looked at the statement for April. At the date when Mr H says his card was 
declined I can see that not all of the credit limit had been used by payments which 
had been debited from his account. There was still a small amount of the credit limit 
which hadnt been used. So, Ive considered whether there were any items pending.
Santander has provided a list of the payments which it says had been authorised 
using the card. And, there are some items on the list which hadnt been debited to 
the account. So, these pending items could account for the rest of the credit limit 
being used up.
When reviewing the list of pending items I asked Santander to provide explanations 
of the codes which appear against each item. But Santander hasnt been able to do 
that. So, I cant be certain whether the items are duplicates or reversals. Or, if there 
is some other explanation. I have noted that none of these items was subsequently 
debited to the account. And, no over limit fee was applied to the account.
Whilst I know Mr H wants to know what happened, its disappointing Santander 
hasnt been able to provide me with satisfactory explanations of the codes used on the list. And whilst I think that the pending items on the list may account for the online 
message Mr H received, Santander hasnt been able to assure me that is the case.
As Ive mentioned above I think its reasonable to expect Santander to explain to Mr 
H why he got the online message and why his card was declined. Santander hasnt 
been able to do that. And, it has provided incomplete and contradictory information to 
Mr H.
As a result of whats happened Mr H has experienced trouble and upset whilst hes 
been trying to get an explanation. Hes had to make phone calls to a different 
international time zone when he was abroad. And hes had to make further phone 
calls when he returned. Hes also been given conflicting information.
Although Santander says it provides ways to contact it which are free of charge, I 
think Mr H has spent time and been inconvenienced trying to get an explanation. Im 
also conscious that hes mentioned costs he says he incurred contacting Santander 
when he was abroad.
Having considered everything, it seems to me, on balance, that the fairest way to 
resolve the dispute would be for Santander to pay Mr H £200 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset he was caused as a result of the poor service 
it has provided.
What should be done to put things right
I propose that Santander should pay Mr H £200 by way of compensation for the 
trouble and upset hes been caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Santander UK plc and I would intend to require it to take the 
following action:
Pay Mr H £200 for the trouble and upset hes been caused as a result of the 
poor service hes experienced.
Mr H has accepted my provisional decision. 
Santander has raised some points, summarised below, in response to my provisional 
decision:
It doesnt accept that Mr H has been given conflicting information. It says that 
throughout the complaint journey hes been told the reason why his card was 
declined was due to his spending exceeding the credit limit.
It says that even though it hasnt been able to provide codes for the 
transactions on the pending list it is still apparent that Mr H was in and 
around his credit limit. It says this is so even if the duplications on the list are 
taken out of the equation.
The system flagged that there was insufficient credit and thats why the card 
was declined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive thought in particular about the comments Santander has made in response to my 
provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision I mentioned the fact that Mr H had been given contradictory 
information. Whilst I agree that the letters which Santander sent to Mr H in response to his 
complaint all say that his card was declined because hed exceeded the credit limit, it is the 
case that he had a telephone conversation with Santander on 15 July 2019. 
Ive listened to that call. During the call Santander told Mr H that hed never exceeded his 
credit limit. The adviser also suggested that there was a different reason why his card had 
been declined. Whilst Santander may say that he was given wrong information during this 
phone call, that doesnt change the fact that he has been given contradictory information.
Santander says its system automatically flagged that there was insufficient credit. But, as I 
said in my provisional decision, in these circumstances, Id expect Santander to be able to 
explain why that was the case. 
This should be a straightforward matter of adding the transactions which had been debited 
from his account and the transactions which had been authorised but not yet debited from 
his account. If the total exceeds the credit limit, then that would explain why Mr H got the 
online message. But I dont see where Santander has provided that information to Mr H. 
When it provided further information to our service it didnt explain the codes on the list of 
pending transactions  so it still wasnt clear. I think its reasonable to expect Santander to 
clearly identify, from the codes used on the pending list, which of the items was included in 
the calculation of the credit limit. But it hasnt been able to do that. I also noted that none of 
the pending items subsequently debited the account. And, no over limit fee was applied to 
the account.
In its response to my provisional decision Santander says that even if duplicates on the 
pending list are taken out of the equation it is apparent Mr H was still in and around his 
credit limit  but that isnt the same thing as being in excess of the credit limit. 
As Ive mentioned above, I think its reasonable to expect Santander to provide an 
explanation. It hasnt been able to do that. So, Im satisfied that Santander should 
compensate him for the trouble and upset hes experienced as a result. I remain of the view 
that £200 is fair and reasonable compensation for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Santander UK plc and I require it 
to take the following action:
Pay Mr H £200 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset he experienced as 
a result of what happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman