DRN-1847183
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs D payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 25 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything 
they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
Mrs D says:
I can remember having the impression that we had to have this insurance. That is was 
obligatory. My husband felt the same in as much as the bank have told us it was necessary.
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago.
And I wouldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were 
said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is 
actually something worth having. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no 
real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be 
sure exactly what was said.
Overall, it wouldnt be fair to say HSBC did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence 
of this. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Ds particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ds situation at the 
time: 
Its likely Mr and Mrs D were eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs D received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs D would have needed to fall back on any savings or other means they 
may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs D in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs D would have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well HSBC explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mr and Mrs D took the PPI  I dont think it would have changed whether or not they thought 
the PPI useful to them. I say this for the same reasons Ive given for saying a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one. 
Its possible HSBC didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have been affected by any of these. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman