DRN-3408038
The complaint
Ms D complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim under her legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
In 2021, Ms D had a boiler and cylinder installed at her property after which she experienced 
a whole host of problems. So she submitted a claim under her legal expenses insurance to 
pursue legal action against the company that installed it.
Amtrust subsequently declined the claim on the basis that its panel solicitors werent 
satisfied it enjoyed reasonable prospects of a successful recovery  which is a requirement 
for cover under the policy.
In the meantime, the company took legal action against Ms D for the outstanding invoice she 
hadnt paid. Ms D again asked for assistance under her policy but Amtrust declined. It said 
there wasnt cover under the policy for the defence of this legal action. 
Ms D raised a complaint, which she brought to our service. But it wasnt upheld. Our 
investigator was satisfied that Amtrust had handled the claim in accordance with the policy 
terms and that it hadnt acted unfairly. As Ms D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ds legal expenses insurance policy says that it will cover 
contract disputes defined as:
Advisers costs to:
Pursue a legal action following a breach of a contract you have for buying or renting 
goods or services for your private use.
Defend a legal action brought against you following a breach of contract you have for 
selling goods (in a private capacity) for the private and personal use of another 
person.
This includes the purchase or sale of your main home. The contract must have been made 
after you first purchased this insurance.
Cover is subject to the claim meeting the policy conditions, and Ive quoted the relevant ones 
below:
Prospects of Success:
There must be a 51% or greater chance of winning the case and achieving a positive 
outcome. A positive outcome includes, but is not limited to, recovering the amount of money 
at stake, enforcing a judgment or achieving an outcome which best serves your interests. 
The assessment of your claim and the prospects of its success will be carried out by an 
independent adviser. If the adviser determines that there is not a 51% or greater chance of 
success, then we may decline or discontinue support for your case.
Proportional Costs:
An estimate of the costs to deal with your claim must not be more than the amount of money 
in dispute. The estimate of the costs will be provided with the assessment of your case and 
will be carried out by the independent adviser. If the estimate exceeds the amount in dispute, 
then we may decline or discontinue support for your case.
These policy terms arent unusual in legal expenses policies, and we dont think theyre 
unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the 
cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed or that they will recover less than the legal costs 
incurred. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, Amtrust obtained the advice of a panel firm. And they were of the opinion that, 
based on the information available, the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of recovering 
the money at stake or enforcing the judgment. This is because the company are showing as 
having negative funds in net assets and minimal capital and reserves. So the panel firm are 
concerned that even if the case won in court, the company wouldnt have the ability to pay 
any award. 
Having considered the legal assessment, Im satisfied its properly written and well-reasoned. 
And its been obtained from an apprentice who was supervised by a suitably qualified 
lawyer. So I havent seen anything to persuade me that Amtrust shouldnt rely on it. 
Rather its up to Ms D to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of her claim, at her 
own cost, if she wants to challenge this further. If such an opinion is supportive then Id 
expect Amtrust to reconsider the claim.
In regard to the defence of the claim brought against Ms D, Im satisfied there isnt cover for 
this type of claim under the policy terms. For contract claims, there is only cover for the 
defence of a claim where Ms D was the seller of goods, which isnt the case here.
In summary, Im satisfied Amtrusts rejection of this claim was in accordance with the policy 
terms and it hasnt done so unfairly. Its for this reason that I wont be upholding the 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman