DRN-3438897
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited didnt ask him questions or give him a scam 
warning when he called about making an international payment for an investment.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr T called Starling Bank about a payment he wanted to make. He 
explained to the agent that he was trying to buy some shares and he wanted to make a 
payment from his account in US dollars, but the payee was based in Hong Kong. His 
account was defaulting to making the payment in Hong Kong dollars. The agent explained 
that the amount would have to be sent in the local currency, so Mr T wasnt able to send the 
payment direct from his Starling account. Mr T sent the amount to an account with another 
company and then from there sent it on to buy the shares.
In 2020, Mr T contacted the company hed paid to find out about his investment and it was at 
this point he realised hed been the victim of a scam. He contacted Starling to see if it could 
help him retrieve his funds. Starling explained it wasnt responsible for what had happened, 
as Mr T didnt make the payment to the scammer from his account. The other party Mr T 
used to make the payment confirmed no funds remained in the scam account. Mr T 
complained that he wasnt asked about the reason for making this payment in the call or 
given any scam education. Starling didnt conclude that the agent had provided any 
misinformation, or poor service, so didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr T came to our service, but our investigator also didnt uphold his complaint. She didnt 
think the agent had done anything wrong in the call, as it seemed from this Mr T wasnt then 
going to use Starling to make the payment. She did look into whether Starling should have 
called Mr T when he then sent the faster payment from his account to the other company. 
But she didnt think it had done anything wrong here either, as the payment wasnt unusual 
enough to prompt an intervention by Starling. Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to review his case. He said that he did agree with her on most of her points, except that he 
thought the agent shouldve been more proactive in assisting him, as he considered his call 
shouldve triggered a number of warning bells.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between Mr T and the agent, but from this I dont consider she did 
need to do more in the call.
I accept that Mr T does disclose that hes looking to buy shares, so the agent could have 
asked more questions around this or given general information on investment scams. But I 
cant agree this is something she had to do, or in fact needed to do in this situation. When 
the agent explains what is and isnt possible with regards to the payment, Mr T asks about a 
way to do it not using Starling. The advisor doesnt give him advice, but just reiterates that it 
cant be done in the way he wants through his Starling account. And at the end of the call he 
says that he will find another way to make the payment.
I understand Mr T considers the agent had a moral obligation to assist him. And that its not 
good industry practice for questions to only be asked if a payment is actually being made. 
But simply put, this is his opinion. There is no actual obligation for Starling to do what he 
thinks it should and I consider his expectations are too high. I understand why Mr T wants 
the agent to have questioned him more around the payment. But I cant say that Starling did 
anything wrong by not doing this. The purpose of the call was for him to establish how/if he 
could make the payment in US dollars. The agent fulfilled this purpose by confirming this 
couldnt be done. And from this he indicated he then wouldnt be using Starling, so it wasnt 
required to continue a conversation about this payment.
Mr T has said he had some doubts about the investment and that questions by Starling 
therefore couldve strengthened these and stopped him making the payment. But if he had 
doubts, then he also could have proactively provided more information and asked the agent 
about what he was doing. Or done further research himself before going ahead. He was the 
one at this point who understood what he was doing and why. Starling and its agent didnt 
have this information, or any obvious need to ask for it, as it seemingly wasnt going to be 
part of the transaction.
It doesnt appear Mr T disagrees with our investigator in relation to her findings about 
whether the faster payment he then made to another company shouldve prompted an 
intervention. But for completeness, Im in agreement with her on these points too. Its clear 
from Mr Ts statements that in the 12 months prior to him making to this payment hes made 
other high value transactions. So I dont consider Starling did need to temporarily block the 
payment and then contact Mr T to discuss it. I therefore dont consider its done anything 
wrong in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman