DRN-3963022
The complaint
Mrs W complains that due to a failure on Link Market Services Trustees Limiteds (Link) part 
she missed out on the opportunity to take up a Rights Offer.
Mrs W says that due to Links failure she has suffered a significant financial loss.
Mrs W is represented in this matter by Mr W.
What happened
Mrs W holds shares in a nominee account with Link.
I understand that on 7 October 2021, Link emailed Mrs W about subscription rights she was 
entitled to take up. However, Mrs W says she does not check her email account regularly 
and did not see the email until after the response deadline on 13 October 2021.
Mrs W complained to Link in late October 2021. She said she had suffered a significant 
financial loss as she was not able to dispose of her subscription rights, due to its failure to 
notify her by post of the Rights Offer.
Link did not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. It did not dispute that Mrs Ws chosen 
communication contact preference was by post. But it said it had emailed the information 
due to the tight window to place an instruction for this Rights Offer. It said that as it held 
an email address for Mrs W it had chosen to send the Rights Offer notification by email, not 
post.
Mrs W was not satisfied with Links response and referred the matter to this service.
Having considered Mrs Ws complaint our investigator said he didnt think Link had acted 
incorrectly in this matter. He said that although Mrs Ws chosen communication preference 
was by post, he didnt think it was unreasonable for Link to have emailed the information, 
rather than sending it by post, due to the short timeframe to place an instruction for this 
Rights Offer.
He said that as Link hadnt received instructions from Mrs W before the deadline for the 
Rights Offer, he didnt think it had acted incorrectly by not upholding Mrs Ws complaint or 
making any offer of compensation.
Mrs W did not accept our investigators view and the complaint was passed to me to 
determine.
I issued my provisional decision on Mrs Ws complaint on 13 January 2023. In it I explained 
that I had reached a different view to that of our investigator and my provisional decision was 
that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. I set out my provisional findings as follows:
I explained that I had carefully reviewed all the information that had been provided in 
connection with Mrs Ws complaint, including the terms and conditions for the nominee 
service offered by Link.
I noted that Section 5 of the terms and conditions, Communications set out:
5.1 (a) Subject to clause 5.2(f) below, all communications sent by us to you will be sent by 
email. Your Statements, which will be made available to you quarterly during each calendar 
year, will be made available online via a secure designated web portal, which can be 
accessed from www.signalshares.com. If you have elected to receive paper 
communications, we will continue to send your statements and communications via 
post unless you tell us otherwise.
(bold is my emphasis)
I said I was mindful that in its final response letter to Mrs W dated December 2021, Link had 
accepted that Mrs Ws chosen communication preference was by post. In view of this and 
that its terms and conditions clearly set out that it will continue to send your statements 
and communications via post unless you tell us otherwise, I said I was not satisfied that it 
was fair or reasonable for Link to fail to send such an important communication to Mrs W by 
post.
I also carefully considered Links claim that it emailed the communication to Mrs W, as there 
was a very short deadline for the Rights Offer. I said it was not in dispute that this was the 
case. I said I understood that the email containing details for the Rights Offer was sent on 7 
October 2021, and the deadline for placing an instruction online was 11:30am on 13 October 
2021.
However, I noted that section 5.1 (b) of the terms and conditions set out:
All communications will be sent by us to your last email address that you have notified to us 
or, as appropriate, to your physical address registered on the Companys share 
register (in the case of joint holders, this will be the email address or physical address of the 
first-named holder).
Communications sent to you by email will be treated as received by you at the time the email 
is evidenced as sent by us on a Business Day. All communications sent to you by post 
will be treated as received by you on the second Business Day following the day they 
were sent in the case of an address in the United Kingdom, or on the fifth Business Day 
following the day they were sent in the case of an address outside of the United Kingdom.
(bold is my emphasis)
Using the timescales set out in Links terms and conditions, I said I thought it ought 
reasonably to have assumed that if it posted the Rights Offer information to Mrs W on 
Thursday 7 October 2021, it was likely that Mrs W would have received the information by 
Monday 11 October 2021. This would have given Mrs W two working days to decide whether 
to take up the Rights Offer before the deadline of 11:30am on Wednesday 13 October 2021.
I accepted that this was a very tight timescale, but I said I didnt think it was fair or 
reasonable for Link to decide not to post the Rights Offer information to Mrs W when it knew 
her chosen communication preference was by post, its terms and conditions clearly set out 
that it would send statements and communications via post unless you tell us otherwise and 
it had send information about a previous Rights Offer to Mrs W by post.
I also carefully considered whether, if Mrs W had received notification of the Rights Offer by 
post on Monday 11 October 2021, or even Tuesday 12 October 2021, she would have had 
time to instruct Link to sell her subscription rights. Having done so, I said I thought Mrs W 
would have had sufficient time to do so. In reaching this view I took into account that although Mrs W did not access her email account frequently, she did have access to email 
and the internet and could therefore have submitted her instructions online; there was no 
need for her to return her instructions by post.
I said that, as Link would be aware, it is required to treat its customers fairly. In this case I 
said I was not satisfied that it had treated Mrs W fairly and as a result Mrs W had lost out 
financially.
In order to put matters right my provisional decision was that Link should put Mrs W in the 
position she would have been in had she been able to dispose of my subscription rights as I 
would have wanted to.
Link did not accept my provisional decision. It reiterated that it felt it had acted reasonably 
and said:
In this instance, because of the tight window to place an instruction for the October 2021 
Rights Offer, Link was satisfied that the best course of action in order to ensure that the 
notification reached individuals in time, was to send the notification by email where possible. 
As such, Mrs W was sent the Rights Offer notification by email using the email address she 
has provided. While Mrs W received the notification for the January 2021 Rights Offer by 
post, the process was changed for the October 2021 Rights Offer in order to expedite the 
communication due to the short timescale.
Due to the tight deadline in this instance, we used the best means available to 
communicate with individuals. Correspondence sent by email meant that this would allow the 
individual sufficient time to place their instruction to sell the Rights.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions. Ill explain why.
I asked Link how it communicated with shareholders it did not hold an email address for 
about this Rights Offer. It said,
With regard to those participants who did not have an email address registered on their 
holding, correspondence regarding the corporate action was issued via post. For all those 
with an email address, we issued the documents electronically due to the tight deadline. 
As Link was able to make arrangements to contact some of the participants by post I am 
satisfied that there was no reason it could not also have contacted Mrs W by post about the 
Rights Offer.
As I set out in my provisional decision, it is not in dispute that the timings were very tight. But 
I am not persuaded that, simply because there was a short deadline for responses, Link 
acted fairly when it disregarded Mrs Ws clearly stated preference to receive statements and 
communications via post. 
If Link was keen to ensure that Mrs W had sufficient time to place their instruction to sell 
the Rights, it is not clear to me why it couldnt have taken a belt and braces approach and 
contacted Mrs W by both post and email.
Having carefully reconsidered this matter, I dont think Link treated Mrs W fairly when it failed to contact her about the Rights Offer by post, her chosen communication preference, 
particularly as it had contacted her about the previous Rights Offer by post. Likewise, Links 
terms and conditions clearly set out that it would  continue to send your statements and 
communications via post unless you tell us otherwise.  
Having carefully considered this matter I remain of the view that in the circumstances of this 
complaint, it was not fair or reasonable for Link to fail to send such an important 
communication to Mrs W by post.
As Link is aware, it is required to treat its customers fairly. In this case I am not satisfied that 
it has treated Mrs W fairly and as a result she has lost out financially.
In order to put matters right my decision is that Link should put Mrs W in the position she 
would have been in had she been able to dispose of my subscription rights as I would have 
wanted to.
Putting things right
In the letter detailing the Rights Offer Link said:
Link Market Services Trustees Limited, as administrators of the [name of business] 
Nominee, are offering nominee Participants the opportunity to sell their Subscription Rights, 
when the Company issues them, free of any dealing fees or commissions.
In the complaint Mrs W referred to Link dated 18 October 2021, she said:
I feel you have not communicated with me as set out in your prospectus and I have not 
therefore been given the opportunity to dispose of my subscription rights as I would have 
wanted to, having missed the cut off date of the 13th October (which I was obviously not 
aware of).
As I set out above, I think Mrs W would have instructed Link to sell the Subscription Rights 
she was entitled to if she had received notification of the Rights Offer by post, her chosen 
communication preference.
In order to put matters right Link should calculate and pay Mrs W the amount she would 
have received if she had used its commission free dealing service to sell the Subscription 
Rights she was entitled to.
It should set out its calculation in a clear, easy to understand format for Mrs W.
In addition, to compensate Mrs W for the loss of the use of this money, Link should pay Mrs 
W 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date she would have received it, if 
she had been able to take up the Rights Offer, to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
In order to put matters right, Link Market Services Trustees Limited (trading as Link Group) 
should calculate and pay the redress I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman