DRN-1534314
The complaint
Mr S complains about interest Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has applied to his 
credit card account.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr S contacted Halifax to query why he was being charged interest on his 
credit card, when he had 0% promotional rates on it.  Hed used his card for purchases in 
January 2019, but he believed hed repaid these.  
Halifax said that the payments hed made in late January and early February 2019 (totalling 
£1,600) had been allocated to the balance on his January statement. This balance was 
made entirely of 0% promotional balances. Any payments made after his February 
statement would be allocated to the balance with the highest rate of interest. 
Halifax said the payments had been allocated in line with Halifaxs terms and conditions. But 
it would waive the following months interest to allow Mr S to review his options. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He thought Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably, in line with the terms and conditions of 
Mr Ss account.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think Halifax had acted in line with the 
credit cards terms and conditions which say that payments are credited towards the debt 
with the highest interest first. He felt he was being punished for clearing the purchases 
balance early. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had a responsibility to treat Mr S fairly and communicate with him in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading.
How Halifax allocates payments is set out in its terms and conditions. This information also 
appears on the back of Mr Ss credit card statements. 
 
 
 
 It says:
We will reduce the amount you owe in the following order:
any overdue amounts from previous statements, then
the remaining balance on your statement, then
any recent transactions not yet shown on your statement.
 
I appreciate Mr S intended the payments he made to his credit card on 31 January and 5 
February 2019, to go towards his purchases of 19 January. But these purchases werent yet 
showing on his credit card statement. The payments were allocated to the balance on his 
previous statement (dated 13 January 2019), in line with Halifaxs terms and conditions.
The regulations require Halifax to first allocate a repayment to the debt subject to the highest 
rate of interest for the outstanding balance on a credit card. And Halifax has set out in its 
terms and conditions that we use your payments to pay off balances charged at the highest 
interest rate first and so on down to balances with the lowest interest rates. This means the 
more expensive balances are always paid off first.
When Mr S made his payments on 31 January and 5 February, his 19 January transactions 
werent part of the balance on his card. These didnt appear in his balance until his next 
statement was issued on 13 February 2019. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr S who feels strongly that hes been punished for trying 
to pay a debt earlier than he needed to. But I cant say that Halifax has done anything wrong. 
Its allocated payments in line with the terms and conditions of the account and has complied 
with the regulations. Its also given Mr S clear information about how payments are allocated 
on the back of his credit card statements. 
I also think that Halifax acted reasonably when it offered to waive one month's interest to 
give Mr S an opportunity to review his options.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman