DRN-1593383
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy Covea Insurance Plc (trading as Provident Insurance) recorded a motor 
insurance claim against her record on a shared database for insurance claims. 
What happened
In 2018 Miss Ms vehicle was hit by another driver, who accidently reversed into her whilst 
she was stationary. There wasnt any visible damage but Miss M contacted Covea as she 
was concerned unseen damage could make her vehicle unsafe. 
Covea agreed for one of its approved repairers to inspect the vehicle, as a gesture of 
goodwill. This was on the basis that if any damage was found, a claim would be logged. No 
damage was found, so Miss M believed there would be no claim recorded. 
Miss M later insured herself as a named driver on another insurance policy. This insurer 
applied a premium increase due to a non-fault incident being found registered in Miss Ms 
name. Miss M made a complaint to Covea, as she felt it had made a mistake.  
Covea didnt agree as it had recorded the incident as notification only on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE). It explained it was obliged to do this, whether a formal claim 
was logged or not. 
Our investigator didnt think Covea had done anything wrong. He said the policy terms and 
conditions explained that relevant information would be collected and uploaded by Covea 
onto industry-shared databases. And he was satisfied Covea had recorded the incident as 
notification only, which was accurate.  
Miss M also had complained about some customer service issues, including a missed call 
back. Covea had apologised for this, which the investigator felt was enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Miss Ms policy states that Covea will share information with the Motor Insurers Bureau 
(MIB). This is general and indeed good industry practice helping to ensure insurance data is 
accurate and for the industry to combat fraud. MIB states CUE is a central database of 
motor, home and personal injury/industrial illness incidents reported to insurance companies 
which may or may not have given rise to a claim.  
The incident is recorded as notification only meaning no claim was made, no claim discount 
is unaffected, and nothing was paid out by Covea. Covea hasnt made a mistake in how its 
recorded the incident on CUE and as this is good industry practice, Im not going to require 
Covea to alter the record. 
Miss M found that a recent insurer added an extra premium to a new policy on the back of 
the CUE entry. Im not persuaded that Covea needs to take any responsibility for that as its down to the judgement of the new insurer whether it wants to apply an extra charge with a 
notification only incident. If Miss M thinks the new insurers pricing approach is unfair, shell 
need to take that up with the relevant insurer.
I agree with the investigator that Coveas apology for customer service is enough to resolve 
this aspect of the complaint. I can understand it caused her some frustration, but I dont think 
its severe enough to warrant any compensation. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman