DRN-3156226
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited have requested he set up a 
second claim for water damage to his property under his home insurance policy.
All references to Lloyds include its appointed agents.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr S property flooded following a period of bad weather. He raised a claim 
with Lloyds who accepted it and proceeded to dry the property. 
Some months later, after the property had been dried, Mr S told Lloyds that a second flood 
had occurred. The cause of the second flood was linked to the operation of the sump pump 
on the neighbouring property.
Lloyds informed Mr S that a second claim needed to be set up to consider the costs of drying 
the property a second time. Mr S disagreed and complained to Lloyds. He said that he felt 
the contractors overseeing the operation of the pump were responsible for the second flood, 
and so Lloyds should consider the costs as part of his initial claim.
Lloyds provided its final response and didnt uphold Mr S complaint, so he referred the 
matter to our service.
An investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that whilst there were two separate flood events, it wasnt reasonable for Lloyds 
to require Mr S to record a second claim as they were persuaded this was most likely a 
result of the contractors actions.
Lloyds disagreed with our investigator. It said it wasnt responsible for the repair works being 
arranged at the neighbouring property. It said that there were significant additional costs for 
it to consider which could not be attributed to the first flood as there was a separate, new, 
and independent cause of damage.
A second investigator reviewed everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. 
They concluded that it was reasonable for Lloyds to request a second claim be set up to 
consider any new damage and the drying required as a result of the second flood.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He maintained that any damage 
caused after the property had been dried was due to the negligence of the contractor, of 
which he said Lloyds had joint responsibility over. And he said that as Lloyds had continued 
to deal with the issues brought about by the second flood, he considered there was no 
second claim here.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but for the reasons below, I 
dont think that this is a complaint that should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The source of the pump failing has been open to debate, as has the question of who exactly 
was responsible for maintaining the pump following the initial flood claim. But I dont need to 
make a definitive finding here in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision on this 
complaint.
 
The crux of the matter here is whether Lloyds actions in asking Mr S to register a second 
claim for water damage are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S holds an events-based policy with Lloyds. This means that in order for a claim to 
succeed, it must be shown that there is a clear link between the damage being claimed for, 
and one of the insured events under the policy.
Here Lloyds has said that the damage being claimed for by Mr S isnt linked to the first 
insured event  the flood caused by heavy rainfall. It says there are now additional costs for 
it to consider, such as further delays, drying costs, and possible alternative accommodation 
costs which cannot be linked to the original flood claim in January 2021.
Therefore, Lloyds position is that it hasnt declined to deal with the second claim for a flood. 
Rather, it has advised the need for this to be registered as a second claim and subject to a 
further policy excess as a new and independent event.
Its clear from the evidence Ive seen that its generally accepted the property had been dried 
before it flooded again. And Mr S hasnt disputed this point. But he says the workings of the 
pump are the only relevance to his complaint here.
Ive carefully considered Mr S point. But for me, there isnt a direct or close enough link to 
the original flood event and the damage or costs that are now being claimed for. I say this 
because there is clearly a separate intervening flood event which has most likely caused 
further damage. And on balance, Im persuaded that Lloyds will incur additional costs such 
as those it set out above which cannot be linked to the initial insured event Mr S claimed for.
So, I cant reasonably say that Lloyds has acted unfairly by requiring a new claim to be set 
up to deal with these costs.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman