DRN-2495588
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC (Amtrust) declined his claim for 
damage to his car.
What happened
Mr P had a Minor Damage Protection policy underwritten by Amtrust which started on 
24 February 2017 and expired on 24 February 2020. 
Mr P contacted Amtrust on 7 February 2020 and submitted a claim form explaining there 
were multiple areas showing damage on his car. Amtrust started assessing the claim on 
19 February and once it had reviewed the information, it decided to decline it. Amtrust said it 
made this decision because the multiple incidents of damage had occurred over a period of 
time and were deemed to be as a result of wear and tear. This wasnt covered under the 
policy. 
Mr P was unhappy with the decline and asked for the claim to be reviewed. Amtrust 
reviewed the details of the claim again. Mr P was claiming for seven separate incidents that 
caused damage to his car which spanned across five panels. Amtrust said the review 
appeared to show the size, location and direction of damages suggest each one happened 
from a separate impact and no two occurred on the same incident. 
Mr P said when he was sold the policy, he was advised it would help keep the car in 
showroom conditions. But Amtrust said this wasnt an issue it could help with as it hadnt 
sold the policy. It was only looking at the claim made under the policy. 
Amtrust confirmed the damage was as a result of wear and tear which wasnt covered under 
the policy. It issued Mr P a final response and confirmed the claim had been declined. 
Mr P brought the complaint to our service. He paid £690 for the damages and would like this 
amount reimbursed. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. She said, under the 
policy, Mr P would have been able to claim for damage as it occurred, but he didnt do that. 
She said its unlikely damage happened within the 30-day period. Therefore, Amtrust hadnt 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim due to wear and tear under the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Unhappy with the investigators response, Mr P asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
In summary, Mr P says:
He cannot understand that once incident cannot happen at least once a week when 
driving in a busy city. He spends a lot of time travelling from his home town to the city 
where its difficult to park due to the tight spaces in the streets and the parking 
spaces; and
Amtrust didnt even offer to cover one of the incidents of damage that occurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
The key issue I need to decide is whether Amtrust declined Mr Ps claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and whether it treated Mr P fairly in doing so.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. On the first page on the policy 
document, it states the following in bold and capital letters: 
IMPORTANT  CLAIMS PROCEDURE  IN ORDER TO CLAIM YOU MUST CONTACT 
THE ADMINISTRATOR PRIOR TO ANY WORK BEING CARRIED OUT AND WITHIN 30 
DAYS OF THE INCIDENT THAT CAUSED THE DAMAGE OCCURING  ANY WORK 
CARRIED OUT WITHOUT AUTHORISATION WILL NOT BE COVERED AND WILL 
RENDER THE CLAIM INVALID.
 
And the policy document states what is not covered and includes the following:
Any claim which is not reported within 30 days of the damage occurring.
.
.
Where the damage has been accumulated over an extended period, which we deem 
to be wear and tear, corrosion or neglect.
The claim has essentially been declined due to wear and tear. Amtrust assessed it and took 
a number of factors into account such as when the claim was made, no previous claims had 
been made, the claim form submitted by Mr P, the locations of where the damage had 
occurred, and the pictures Mr P had sent to it. Mr P has provided conflicting information 
regarding when the damage had happened and therefore it was unable to determine 
whether the damage happened within 30 days. Having looked at everything, I find that its 
highly unlikely no damage occurred in the three years from when the car was purchased in 
February 2017 until February 2020.
The policy was designed so that a claim could be made for any damage that occurred within 
30 days and if the claim had been made within that time period, a repair would most likely 
have been approved and carried out. The purpose was for those small and medium 
damages to be repaired. 
However, it seems, Mr Ps policy was due to expire on 24 February 2020 and he submitted a 
claim on 7 February 2020. I appreciate Mr P has said he was travelling back and forth from 
his home town and space in the city is much tighter. But thats not necessarily the issue. 
Amtrust declined the claim due a number of factors and decided it was unlikely the damage 
occurred within 30 days of the claim being made. Its difficult to say whether damage could 
happen at least once a week when spending so much time driving. And if that was the case, 
then Mr P could have made a claim each time the damage occurred  there were no 
restrictions on the number of times a claim was made on the policy. As Ive confirmed, the 
policy was designed so that when small or medium damage had happened, a claim could be 
made within 30 days of that. Mr P didnt make a claim at any time during the three-year term 
of the policy and only submitted the claim a few weeks before the expiry date. The claim was 
assessed taking into account a number of factors. In the circumstances of this complaint, 
theres no specific evidence to confirm damage happened within 30 days of the claim being 
made and as such Im not persuaded the decline due to wear and tear was inappropriate. Overall, having looked at all the available evidence, Im satisfied Amtrust declined the claim 
in line with the policy terms and conditions and as due to wear and tear. In doing so, I dont 
think it treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably. As such, I dont think Amtrust needs to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman