DRN-2493112
The complaint
Mr E and Ms W complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) incorrectly 
recorded information about them during a mortgage appointment. This led to them being 
unable to borrow the amount they expected and having to pay an Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC) to move their mortgage to a different lender.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all of them. 
Instead Ill provide a summary of the key points, and then Ill go on to focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Mr E and Ms W held a mortgage with Nationwide. In July 2020 they approached Nationwide 
to enquire about porting their existing mortgage product to a new property and borrowing 
additional funds.
Nationwide made an initial assessment of Mr E and Ms Ws application and provided them 
with a Decision In Principle (DIP), setting out that it could potentially lend them up to 
£438,000. With this information Mr E and Ms W put their house on the market and made an 
offer on a new property, which was accepted within a couple of days.
When Mr E and Ms Ws mortgage application was moved to the next stage, Nationwides 
underwriter questioned the information that had been provided in relation to Ms Ws 
employment. This had initially been entered as a permanent role, but it transpired that Ms W 
was employed on a fixed-term contract. When this was entered into Nationwides system the 
overall amount it was prepared to lend was reduced by around £90,000 to £348,000.
Mr E and Ms W had had an offer accepted on a property they wished to purchase, as well as 
having accepted an offer on the sale of their house. So, they approached another lender to 
obtain borrowing closer to the amount they initially expected Nationwide to be able to lend 
them. Mr E and Ms W managed to find another lender, but they complain that they had to 
pay an ERC to repay their Nationwide mortgage before the end of its fixed term. They also 
explain that theyd paid non-refundable fees to their conveyancer, so they were unwilling to 
back out of the purchase.
Nationwide accepted that its mortgage consultant had made an error when they processed 
the Decision in Principle for Mr E and Ms W. Nationwide apologised for the mistake and paid 
Mr E and Ms W £150 for the trouble and upset that the mistake had caused them. But it 
didnt agree that it should waive the ERC.
As Mr E and Ms W remained unhappy with Nationwides response, they referred it to this 
service. Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend it should be 
upheld. She explained that whilst this was clearly an inconvenient and unfortunate situation 
which arose from a mistake Nationwide made, she didnt think Nationwide needed to waive 
the ERC to put things right. And she explained that she felt the £150 Nationwide had already 
paid adequately compensated Mr E and Ms W for the situation. 
Mr E and Ms W didnt agree. So, the case has been passed to me to make a decision and 
bring matters to a close. 
I note that Mr E and Ms W dont dispute that the ERC was a feature of their previous 
mortgage, or the amount of it  but instead the fact that it was charged as a result of 
Nationwides earlier error. So, Ill only be considering whether Nationwide was right to apply 
the ERC when Mr E and Ms W chose to move their mortgage to a new lender; and not 
whether the amount of the ERC was correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know itll come as a disappointment to Mr E and Ms W, but I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The Decision in Principle isnt a guarantee that Nationwide will lend the amount quoted  it is 
an indication based on the information it has at the time. The final amount is subject to 
Nationwides further underwriting checks. Whilst I do appreciate the information provided by 
Mr E and Ms W was likely accurate, and shouldve been noted more accurately by 
Nationwide before underwriting, the DIP states:
This decision, which is not an offer of mortgage, is valid until 8 September 2020 and is
subject to the Nationwide Building Societys lending criteria (which may change), valuation
and suitability of the property and pre-offer case review by an underwriter. This decision in
principle does not imply reservation of a particular mortgage product. Our decision in
principle to provide loan facilities to you is subject to no errors, omissions or material
changes in the information that has been provided.
Mr E and Ms W say they had already paid a deposit to their solicitor for the fees in relation to 
their sale and purchase, before Nationwide declined their application. I accept this, but I 
dont think this is a financial loss caused by Nationwide alone. Mr E and Ms W had chosen to 
proceed and pay these fees despite only having received a decision in principle rather than a 
formal mortgage offer.
At the point Nationwide told Mr E and Ms W that it couldnt lend to them, on 24 July, they 
had the option of searching for a different property within their price range to avoid losing the 
money theyd already paid. And had they done this, theyd most likely have been able to 
keep their mortgage with Nationwide and avoid paying the ERC. But as they instead chose 
to proceed with the original purchase and move to a different lender, consequently being 
charged an ERC by Nationwide on their existing mortgage, I cant hold Nationwide 
responsible for that. 
I certainly do agree that Nationwide made an error when producing the DIP, but the events 
that followed are not all a result of Nationwides actions. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell 
Nationwide to compensate Mr E and Ms W for the solicitors fees, which theyd have needed 
to pay anyway, regardless of the error. I recognise that Mr E and Ms W most likely had their hearts set on the new property theyd 
found, which was outside of their borrowing limit with Nationwide. So, it certainly wouldve 
been disappointing for them to learn that Nationwide couldnt provide the funds they needed 
to buy it. But this doesnt lead me to conclude that it was unfair of Nationwide to charge the 
ERC, as the choice to continue with the purchase by moving to a different lender was 
ultimately up to Mr E and Ms W. 
I do however think that its fair for Nationwide to recognise that it did initially make an error. 
Having considered everything, I think the £150 Nationwide has paid to Mr E and Ms W is a 
fair reflection of the inconvenience this situation caused. Although Nationwide upheld the 
complaint, it doesnt automatically follow that it has to put things right in the way that Mr E 
and Ms W think it should. And whilst I think it was right for Nationwide to recognise the 
inconvenience with a compensation payment, I dont think its responsible for any financial 
loss that followed the error being made in the production of the DIP, as this couldve been 
mitigated had Mr E and Ms W changed their course of action. 
Id like to reassure Mr E and Ms W that Ive thought very carefully about everything theyve 
said, even where I havent specifically highlighted every point raised. But having done so, I 
havent concluded that Nationwide needs to do anything further to recognise the trouble and 
upset that it caused by making an error when producing Mr W and Ms Es Decision in 
Principle. So, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr E and Ms Ws complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman