DRN-3262317
The complaint
Miss B says a car she obtained through a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited, trading as ALPHERA Financial Services (ALPHERA), was 
misrepresented. She says it was advertised as having a full manufacturers service history.
What happened
Miss B obtained a second-hand car through a hire purchase agreement with ALPHERA. She 
says the car was advertised as having a full manufacturers service history and that this was 
one of the main selling points which attracted her to the car. Shortly after the car was 
supplied, she realised it was due a major B service. She says the supplying garage only 
carried out an A service and that the service light had been turned off.
The supplying garage offered to carry out the B service at no cost to Miss B, or to 
contribute £200 towards her arranging the service elsewhere.
Miss B arranged for the service to be completed by one of the manufacturers approved 
garages at a cost of £580. She wants ALPHERA to reimburse the full cost to her, plus the 
cost of the transmission fluid which wasnt available when the car was serviced.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt see 
that the car had been advertised as having a full-service history, so didnt think it had been 
misrepresented.
Miss B disagreed, saying she was sure the car was sold with a full-service history.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Miss B. If it was, and if I thought Miss B would not have proceeded with 
the deal if shed been aware of the true facts, then I would think ALPHERA was responsible 
and Id ask it to take some further action.
I dont doubt that Miss B wanted a car that had a full-service history. But the advert for the 
car doesnt include any mention of its service history. I dont know what discussions took 
place during the sale of the car, but Miss B hasnt made us aware of anything in particular 
that the supplying garage said which would persuade me that shed been given inaccurate or 
misleading information. Overall, I dont find that the car was misrepresented to her.
The supplying garage carried out the equivalent of an A service before it supplied the car. 
When Miss B complained that it should have had a B service, the supplying garage offered 
to complete this, which I think is fair. I can understand why Miss B didnt want the supplying 
garage to complete the service and why she arranged for it to be carried out by a 
manufacturers approved garage. But the supplying garage offered to contribute £200 
towards the cost, which I think is fair. In the circumstances, I dont require ALPHERA to do 
anything more.
I appreciate Miss Bs strength of feeling on this matter and her concern that, had she not 
carried out her own checks, she wouldnt have realised the B service hadnt been 
completed. But my role is to make a decision based on the facts of what happened, rather 
than to consider what might have happened.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman