DRN-3614893
The complaint
X is unhappy that with several aspects of the service he received form The Co-operative 
Bank Plc (Co-op) surrounding a request he made to transfer money overseas.
What happened
X visited a branch of Co-op and asked to transfer some money overseas. Co-op told X that it 
wasnt possible to transfer money to the country that he was requesting. X wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Co-op looked at Xs complaint. They acknowledged their staff member made a mistake and 
that X should have been able to transfer the money to his intended overseas recipient in the 
first instance. Co-op apologised to X for this and credited his account with £50 as 
compensation for any trouble or upset that he may have incurred. 
X wasnt satisfied with Co-ops response and felt that Co-op hadnt taken account of his 
psychological needs and had discriminated against him by not completing the transfer, which 
caused him anxiety, and also that Co-op had discriminated against the country to which hed 
wanted to send the money. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that Co-op 
had already issued to Xs complaint already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to 
what had happened, so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
X remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Id like to begin by explaining to X that this service doesnt have a free hand 
to review any complaint point that a complainant such as himself may ask us to consider. 
This is because there are strict rules that define the parameters within which this service 
must operate, and these rules include that this service is only able to consider points of 
complaint that the respondent business  in this case Co-op  has already had the 
opportunity to consider and respond to themselves. And this means that this service isnt 
permitted to consider any aspect of Xs complaint that Co-op havent had the opportunity to 
consider and respond to in a formal manner.
Im aware that X has declared further points of complaint against Co-op beyond those that 
Ive described in the preceding section. But because these further points of complaint relate 
to events that took place after Co-op issued their complaint response to X, this means that 
Co-op havent themselves had the opportunity to consider and respond to those further 
points in a formal manner in the way that they have considered and responded to Xs 
complaint about being told that he couldnt transfer money to his intended overseas 
recipient, as summarised above.
Im aware that X feels that all of his points of complaint are aspects of a larger whole, and 
that as such this service should be able to consider every aspect of his complaint, including 
those that Co-op havent yet had the opportunity to consider and respond to. But I hope that 
X will understand, given what Ive explained above, that the rules by which this service must 
abide simply dont allow this.
Accordingly, I can confirm that my assessment of Xs complaint here is limited to a 
consideration of the events that fall within the permitted remit of this service at this time. 
Specifically, Xs visit to branch where he was incorrectly told that he couldnt transfer money 
to his intended overseas recipient, as well as Co-ops response to Xs resultant complaint. 
Im also aware that X feels that Co-op havent taken account his psychological needs, 
including that he suffers with anxiety, which X has explained has been exacerbated by the 
way in which Co-op have handled this matter. X has also stated that he feels that Co-op 
acted in a discriminatory manner in how they told him that money couldnt be transferred to 
his intended overseas destination.
Id like to reassure X that the issues he raises here are matters which this service takes very 
seriously. For their part, Co-op dont feel that theyve acted in a discriminatory manner in any 
way. Rather, Co-op has accepted that it provided X with poor customer service and have 
explained that the branch staff member that X spoke with made a human error and wasnt 
aware that money could be sent to the country that X was seeking to make the transfer to.
But X doesnt see it that way. He believes that what Co-ops agent did went beyond poor 
customer service, and hes felt discriminated against. Considering what happened from Xs 
perspective  putting myself in Xs shoes, so to speak  I can understand why X might feel 
this way and how it might appear from the actions of Co-ops staff member that Co-op were 
acting in a discriminatory manner.
But having considered all the evidence here, including Xs testimony, I dont feel that Co-op 
has singled out either him or the country to which X wanted to send the money. Rather, I feel 
that its more likely than not that what happened was simply a human error on the part of the 
staff member. And I feel that, on balance, it is more likely that the staff members actions 
were undertaken on the mistaken basis of them not being aware that money could be sent to 
the country in question, rather than on the basis of anything more untoward, such as a form 
of discrimination. And indeed, I dont feel that theres any compelling evidence of any form of 
malice on Co-ops or their agents behalf here.  
However, it must be acknowledged that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law, 
and as such, it isnt for this service to say whether an act of discrimination has or hasnt 
happened  such a determination would be for a Court of Law to decide. Accordingly, in 
arriving at the position I have here, Ive done so solely on the basis of a professional opinion, 
in line with my role as an ombudsman, which has been made in consideration of all the 
information available to me.  
X has also stated that he feels Co-op didnt take due consideration of his psychological 
needs, including that he suffers with anxiety. X also believes that whether or not hed 
previously informed Co-op of his anxiety isnt relevant here, as Co-op staff should be trained 
to recognise customers with anxiety and to make reasonable adjustments in how they 
interact with such customers accordingly.
While I understand this is an important point to X, Im unable to arrive at a similar conclusion 
to him on this point. This is because, while it would be expected that a business would treat 
all consumers fairly, I feel that where an individual consumer may have preferred methods of 
communication or would like the business to implement adjustments that would improve their ability to access products and services, that there is an onus on that consumer to explain to 
a business what their preferences or required adjustments are.
Similarly, it wouldnt be appropriate or reasonably possible for a business to assume all 
consumers will need reasonable adjustments or what those adjustments might be. And this 
is the case both broadly and in consideration of a specific named condition, including 
anxiety. And this is because there will be no universal approach that will work for everyone 
who has anxiety. Rather, what may be helpful for one person may not be helpful for another. 
Additionally, there may be limited physical or verbal indicators which might indicate that 
someone may be experiencing anxiety, particularly if that person isnt known to the individual 
they are speaking to. As such, I dont feel that it is reasonable to expect a business such as 
Co-op to train all of its staff to identity the large number of potential health concerns that 
exist, including anxiety, from a persons physical or verbal presentation. Instead, as 
explained above, I feel the onus is on the individual who would like reasonable adjustments 
to be made to make the business aware of their need for those reasonable adjustments, so 
that the business can then look to implement them.
In this instance, its evident that Co-ops staff member didnt recognise that X suffered with 
anxiety, and as alluded to above I dont feel that this was unreasonable. However, I also feel 
that even if that staff member had recognised that X suffered with anxiety, I dont feel that 
the outcome that occurred here  which is that X was incorrectly told he couldnt transfer 
money to his intended overseas destination  would have changed. This is because I feel 
that its more likely than not that Co-ops agent would have made the same human error in 
not realising that money could be sent to the country in question regardless of whether they 
recognised that X suffered with anxiety or not.
All of which means that, while I can appreciate that X is unhappy at what occurred here, I 
feel that the response that Co-op have already issued to X, including the apology and 
payment of £50 compensation, does already represent a fair and reasonable resolution to X 
being incorrectly told that he couldnt transfer money to his intended overseas destination. 
I realise this might not be the outcome X was wanting here, but it follows from all the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Co-op to take any further action in 
regard to this complaint. I hope that X will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman