DRN-3414466
The complaint
Ms S complains PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) provided her with a car that she believes 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. She also complains the car was damaged while being repaired. 
What happened
In January 2020, Ms S entered into a 48 month personal contract purchase agreement 
(PCP) with PSA for a new car. The cash price of the car was £22,242, she was required to 
pay £290 per month with a final optional payment of £8,291.
Ms S said on 23 February 2020 she noticed an issue with the fuel gauge as it wasnt 
reporting correctly. She said she told the dealership about it and they told her it was just 
because it was a new car. The issue continued and Ms S said she insisted the dealership 
look at it. However due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it couldnt be returned 
immediately. 
The car was eventually returned to the dealership in June 2020 and Ms S was provided with 
a courtesy car. They confirmed there was a fault with the fuel gauge and they ordered a 
replacement. There was a delay in receiving the part and in July 2020, Ms S complained to 
PSA and requested to reject the car. PSA said the delay was outside of their control as it 
was down to the manufacturer.
The fuel gauge was repaired in August 2020. Once the car was fixed, Ms S returned to 
collect it and upon doing so she noticed a dent on the rear quarter and bumper. She said this 
wasnt present before the car went in for repair and she had signed a job card to confirm the 
same. But according to the dealership, while the car was in for repair they noticed there was 
damage and they updated the report to reflect that. They said the damage wasnt caused by 
them, it was already present when the car was brought in by Ms S. 
Ms S complained. PSA accepted there was a fault with the fuel gauge and there was a delay 
in receiving the relevant part but the car had been fixed by the dealership so they wouldnt 
allow rejection but offered to pay one months instalment for the inconvenience. In regards to 
the dent, they said this wasnt grounds to reject the car as it was pre-existing damage but as 
a gesture of goodwill and without admission of liability the dealership will carry out a repair. 
Around September 2020, the dealership said they were willing to repair the dent as a 
gesture of goodwill. They repaired the bodywork but Ms S said it had been carried out to a 
poor standard. She said the car was yellow but the paintwork was orange in colour meaning 
it didnt match the rest of the paintwork. She also said the wheel trim wasnt secure. 
Another repair to the bodywork was carried out around October/November 2020 and Ms S 
was told the car was ready to be collected. Unhappy with the second repair, Ms S said she 
wasnt willing to accept the return of the car but the dealership insisted it was returned. It 
was delivered to her home address in December 2020. Ms S said she hasnt driven it since 
and its been declared SORN (statutory off road notification). As a result, shes had to find 
alternative means of transport and this is causing financial strain as she continues to pay the 
contractual payments. 
Unhappy with the situation she complained again to PSA and requested to reject the car. 
They maintained their position and in addition said in regard to the damage to the car, as it 
was not a manufacturing defect, they wouldnt allow a rejection and Ms S should discuss 
matters with the dealership directly. They also said the cars manufacturer had offered to pay 
two months instalments to recognise the delay in providing the replacement fuel gauge.
Unhappy with their response, Ms S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality due to the fault with the fuel gauge however they 
believed PSA had done enough to put this right and theres no evidence the repair wasnt 
successful. In regard to the bodywork issue, he said there is insufficient evidence of when 
this occurred and it wouldnt be fair to hold PSA responsible for this as its down to the 
dealership. 
Ms S disagreed and in summary she said:
- The replaced fuel gauge wasnt an original part so this would void the warranty;
- Since the car was returned, it doesnt start;
- She had the original job card when the car was returned to the dealership which 
confirmed there was no damage to the car. At a later point, the dealership added that 
there was damage.
In January 2022, Ms S arranged for the car to be looked at by a third party garage and they 
found the following:
- A fault with the door locking system  back doors didnt lock and the front doors didnt 
unlock;
- The car doesnt start at first ignition, it only starts from a boost pack;
- The dashboard shows a gearbox fault and other faults which could be the battery, 
alternator or ECU;
- Signs of poor body repair to rear quarters but a paint specialist would need to give a 
more detailed report.
In March 2022, I issued my provisional decision upholding the complaint. I said:
Faulty fuel gauge
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. To be
considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a reasonable
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, the
price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the other relevant
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the age and mileage
at the time of supply and the cars history.
In this case, Ms S was supplied with a brand new car so it would be reasonable to expect 
the quality of it to be higher than a more well used one and it would be free from defects and 
for a significant amount of time.
Based on evidence, its clear there was a fault with the cars fuel gauge, this isnt in dispute. 
Ive already set out the expectations of the quality of a new car. In this case, I wouldnt 
expect one that had travelled so few miles and so soon after supply to experience such an 
issue. Im satisfied its most likely the issue was an inherent manufacturing fault and it was 
present or developing at supply. Therefore I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied meaning there was a breach of contract.Where this happens, and its outside the first 30 days of supply the relevant law allows one 
opportunity to repair and I would expect this to be at no cost to Ms S which is what 
happened here. Once the Covid-19 restrictions started to ease, the car was returned to the 
dealership in June 2020 and a repair was carried out under warranty at no cost to Ms S. 
I understand there was a delay of over two months for the car to be repaired. The dealership 
said this is because there were delays in acquiring the relevant part from the manufacturer. 
The CRA says repairs must be carried out within a reasonable amount of time without 
significant inconvenience for the consumer. In this case I consider two months to be 
significant. But given the wider context of Covid and the delays by the manufacturer, I 
appreciate the reasons for the delay but I also understand Ms S frustration. Once the car 
part was received in August 2020, the dealership fixed the car and there is no evidence to 
suggest they couldve fixed it earlier. 
The cars manufacturer offered to pay two months instalment in recognition of the delay to 
provide the relevant part. PSA advised Ms S if she wanted to accept that offer, she should 
contact the manufacturer directly. Its unclear whether Ms S accepted the same.
While the car was at the dealership waiting to be repaired, I understand Ms S was kept 
mobile with a courtesy car. I appreciate the initial car provided was a manual and Ms S car 
was an automatic and shes explained due to health reasons she needed an automatic car. 
Given these circumstances, I can understand why she wasnt happy about this. However 
PSA said she was later provided with an automatic car after the initial three weeks. In light of 
the same, Im satisfied they done enough to keep her mobile and in a suitable car for her 
needs. 
Damage to bodywork
Its in dispute as to who caused the dent to the car. Ms S believes it was caused by the 
dealership however they said they noticed it while it was waiting to be repaired and 
concluded it must have been present when the car was returned to them by Ms S. 
Ive seen a copy of the job card in June 2020 and there is a section concerning visual 
inspection whereby it can be noted if there are any existing faults such as dents, scratches 
or chips to the car. I note in the event damage is identified there is a box for the consumer to 
sign to acknowledge such damage. In this case, the box is not signed by Ms S. 
Ms S said there were no faults when she brought the car in for repair and nothing was noted 
on the job card however the dealership later amended it to say there was a dent. If there was 
pre-existing damage to the car when it was brought in, I believe it wouldve been reasonable 
for the dealership to have noticed this, marked it on the job card and required Ms S to sign 
for it but there is no evidence of this. On balance I think its more likely than not the damage 
to the bodywork was caused by the dealership during the months it was in their care.
PSA said they cant be held responsible for the actions of the dealership however I disagree, 
I believe its reasonable to say the dealership was acting as their agent meaning they are 
responsible for their actions. PSA may say the dealership wasnt their agent because they 
didnt instruct them to carry out the repair and they were only told about the fuel gauge fault 
in July 2020 which was after the car had already been returned to the dealership in June 
2020. I accept this and its likely Ms S wasnt aware she couldve contacted PSA sooner. 
However even if she had, I believe its likely they wouldve advised her to contact the 
dealership anyway for a repair meaning she wouldve been in the same position had she 
contacted them earlier. For the above reasons, I find there was a fault with the fuel garage at supply, the dealership 
acting as an agent of PSA carried out a repair and caused further damage to the car while it 
was in their care. Therefore PSA are liable for this.
 
Although the dealership disputed the damage was caused by them, they agreed to carry out 
a repair as a gesture of goodwill. They werent happy with the first attempt and repaired it a 
second time. However despite the repair attempts, Ms S maintains it wasnt to a satisfactory 
standard especially in regards to the paintwork and she has provided pictures of the same. 
Additionally, the report from the third party garage in January 2022 comments there are 
signs of a poor body repair and a paint specialist would be able to give a more detailed 
report. I have to bear in mind this was a brand new car and the paintwork is a unique colour 
(yellow) therefore it may be difficult to achieve the exact colour and to the same standard of 
when it was manufactured. However I dont believe its fair for Ms S to be returned a brand 
new car, which costs over £22,000, with such an issue that was no fault of her own 
especially as its likely to impact the value of the car. 
Despite the two repair attempts by the dealership of whom I note are manufacturer 
approved, Im not persuaded the repair to the bodywork was to a satisfactory quality. Ms S 
doesnt want a further repair and given what has happened so far I believe its reasonable for 
PSA to allow the rejection of the car.
To put things right, they should end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Ms S. 
They should also refund the £3,000 deposit. While I appreciate there was a fuel gauge fault 
and the car didnt perform as expected, Ms S was still able to drive it up until June 2020 and 
she covered over 2,900 miles so its fair she pays to reflect that use. However I believe its 
reasonable for PSA to refund the monthly payments from November 2020 onwards as this is 
when the car was ready to be collected following the repairs to the fuel gauge and bodywork.
At the time of writing this decision, its unclear whether Ms S has continued to pay the 
monthly payments. In the event she hasnt and the account is in arrears, I believe its fair for 
the above refunds to be offset against any money Ms S owes to PSA. 
Ms S hasnt provided detail about any other costs she has incurred as a result of this 
situation however if there are any, I ask her to provide evidence of the same. I will take it into 
consideration and decide whether or not I believe it would be responsible for PSA to cover 
such expenses. 
As mentioned above, PSA has already offered to pay one months instalment due to the 
inconvenience caused due to the delay in the repair and in the circumstances I believe this is 
a fair amount. However given the trouble and upset caused by the further damage caused 
by the dealership I believe PSA should also pay an additional £150 compensation.
Response to the provisional decision 
Ms S accepted the findings. She highlighted her financial losses including the guaranteed 
asset protection (GAP) insurance and the cost of a private registration plates which she 
would either like returned or reimbursed. Ms S has provided evidence of both costs. She has 
also commented there were other out of pocket expenses but she doesnt have the relevant 
evidence. She stressed she had to rely on family and friends for transport and she eventually 
bought another car so she could travel to and from her medical appointments. PSA didnt 
provide any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms S for her comments and I appreciate this situation has caused great upset 
especially as she bought the car in the belief that she wouldnt have any issues with a new 
one so I can understand her disappointment about whats happened. 
Overall I agree that Ms S has had little benefit from the GAP insurance as she stopped 
driving the car when it was returned to her in November 2020 and she will be required to pay 
for the removal or transfer of the private registration. Given whats happened, I believe its 
fair for PSA to refund these costs incurred. PSA should provide a pro rata refund of the 
insurance policy calculated from November 2020 and refund the cost of the removal / 
transferring of the private registration plates subject to evidence from Ms S.
With the addition of the award of financial losses as outlined above, I havent been provided 
with any further information to change my decision overall I still consider my findings to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final decision is the same for the 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms S complaint.
To put things right, PSA Finance UK Limited must:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Ms S to pay;
- Collect the car at no cost to Ms S;
- Refund the deposit* 
- Refund the contractual payments from November 2020 onwards*;
- Provide a pro rata refund for the GAP insurance policy calculated from November 
2020*
- Refund the cost of the removal / transfer of the private registration plate (subject to 
proof being provided)*;
- If the account is in arrears the above refunds can be used to offset what is owed by 
Ms S;
- Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Ms S credit file;
- Pay the equivalent of one months instalment as compensation for the delay in repair 
(if not paid already)
- Pay an additional £150 as compensation to Ms S for the trouble and upset caused 
due to the further damage caused. 
*PSA Finance UK should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the above refunds 
calculated from the date of payment up to the date of settlement.
If PSA Finance UK considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ms S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 Simona Charles
Ombudsman