DRN-3125010
The complaint
Miss P complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) have unfairly increased her pet 
insurance premiums following a claim in the previous year.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events. 
In August 2019 Miss P took out a lifetime pet policy with HDI for her dog (D).
When the policy renewed in 2021 Miss P noticed the premium had increased by 
around double. She acknowledged it would likely increase following making a claim 
but was unhappy with the extent of the increase.
HDI said its lifetime policies provide cover for ongoing conditions every year as long 
as the policy is renewed each year. But as a result, it says this means its premiums 
are higher than other policies that include time or monetary limits, per condition.
HDI said it couldve made it clearer to Miss P that these premiums may increase 
significantly across the life of the policy. And as a result, offered £200 in 
compensation. But it said the premiums had been calculated correctly.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He said there was no evidence to suggest 
Miss P had been treated differently compared to any other customer or that the 
calculation was incorrect. But he felt the compensation offered wasnt enough in the 
circumstances and said HDI should pay £600 in total.
HDI disagreed, saying it had contacted Miss P at the time of the 2020 renewal and 
prompted her to assess whether the policy still met her needs  and she had still 
decided to continue. So, it said the compensation it had offered initially was fair.
The investigator looked again, and was persuaded by HDIs evidence, so he agreed 
£200 was fair compensation.
Miss P disagreed, reiterating that the increase was not justifiable, and was unfair and 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
As our investigator outlined, it isnt the role of this service to tell a business how to 
price the policies it offers. To do so would be interfering with its own commercial 
judgement and outside of the remit of this service. But we can consider individual 
complaints to check whether a business has acted fairly when pricing their insurance.
HDI has provided our service with details of its premium calculation. Ive checked this 
carefully, and Im satisfied the price quoted to Miss P was calculated correctly taking 
into account all of the relevant details including claims history. This means all of 
HDIs customers in the same position will have been charged a similar premium. I 
understand shes unhappy with the level of increase, but as Ive said, this is its 
commercial decision to make. So, Im satisfied HDI has acted fairly when calculating 
Miss Ps premiums and hasnt treated her any differently to other customers.
HDI said up until the renewal August 2020 it couldve been clearer to Miss P that the 
premiums could increase significantly. And it awarded £200 for this lack of clarity. As 
HDI has said itself it didnt make this clear enough, I see no reason to make a finding 
on this matter. However, Miss P hadnt made any claims on the policy by this point, 
so I see no financial loss or impact as a result of this mistake on HDIs part.
HDI said within its 2020 renewal, it highlighted potential price increases, saying:
Have you checked that your insurance policy is still appropriate for your 
needs and also considered shopping around to find the best deal for the 
cover you want? Alternative providers may not offer protection for any 
previous or ongoing conditions or claims. 
Like humans, our pets are more likely to be affected by illness as they get 
older. This means that every year your insurance premium will increase even 
if you havent made a claim. This increase will be significant if you have 
claimed.
Im satisfied this highlighted the possibility of future premium increases  particularly 
in light of D getting older, as well as the price being impacted by any claims made. At 
this time Miss P hadnt made any claims and still agreed to renew. So, Im persuaded 
HDI made this possibility clear to Miss P and hasnt mis-led her. 
Miss P has said shes unhappy more widely with HDIs ability to charge premiums as 
it has. And shes said these increases arent something that customers can budget 
for and are higher than other insurers. Im sympathetic to her situation, but for the 
reasons Ive given, HDIs commercial decisions are its own.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. And Im satisfied the offer of £200 
made by HDI Global Specialty SE is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman