DRN-2364495
The complaint
Mrs K complains that BUPA Insurance Limited declined her claim against her private 
medical insurance policy.      
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs K was previously a named beneficiary of a group, private 
medical insurance policy. Mrs Ks husband, Mr K, is the main applicant of the group 
scheme.
In December 2019, Mr K called BUPA and set up a new policy for Mrs K only. He said 
that theyd been separated for some time and wanted to sort this out. The new policy 
started on 31 December 2019. In June 2020, Mrs K needed surgery and made a claim 
against the policy. BUPA declined to cover Mrs Ks treatment. It said that Mrs Ks 
condition was a pre-existing condition and not covered under her policy. 
Mrs K wants BUPA to deal with her claim. She says that BUPA acted unfairly in that it 
didnt offer continuous cover and that it didnt give Mr K any options other than to set up 
a new and separate policy. Mrs K says that BUPA knew about her condition, so it 
shouldnt treat it as a pre-existing condition. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When Mr K phoned BUPA in December 2019, he said that he wanted to continue 
cover for Mrs K. BUPA explained that as Mr K was the main member, the only option 
was to set up a new policy for Mrs K, which would involve new underwriting and may 
not cover pre-existing conditions. 
The documentation BUPA sent to Mrs K in relation to the new policy was clear. It 
showed that Mrs Ks new policy was on a moratorium basis. The documentation 
explained that means that the policy doesnt cover pre-existing medical conditions 
Mrs K had in the five years before the policy began until she has been a member for 
two years in a row and had a period of two years in a row trouble-free from that 
condition. So, BUPA acted within the terms and conditions of the policy when it 
declined Mrs Ks claim in this case. 
In general terms, insurers can decide who they wish to insure and the terms of that 
cover. BUPA says that eligibility for continuation of cover lies with the main applicant 
of a group scheme, not a dependant of the main applicant. It says that it doesnt offer 
continuation of cover for a named dependant on a group scheme when the main 
applicant isnt covered on the new policy. So, in the particular circumstances here, 
continuation of cover wasnt available to Mrs K. 
I think BUPA treated Mrs K the same as it would treat anyone else in her position. I 
dont think that BUPA was obliged to offer Mr K other options in the phone call: it 
offered the only option available, which was a new policy on new terms. I dont think 
that there are any grounds on which I could fairly direct BUPA to deal with Mrs Ks 
claim in this case. 
I appreciate that Mrs K says that BUPA should cover pre-existing conditions if the 
condition was diagnosed during previous membership. But the new policy in Mrs Ks 
sole name was on new terms. BUPA wasnt obliged to offer Mrs K continuation of 
cover in the particular circumstances here. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman