DRN-4376232
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain about the medical assistance they received from Inter Partner 
Assistance SA following a claim on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B bought a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by Inter Partner 
Assistance SA (IPA). The policy provided cover from 6 to 21 December 2022, for an 
overseas cruise, but during that trip Mr B became unwell.
Mrs B and Mr B disembarked in a country Ill call B and Mr B was taken to hospital for 
treatment. A claim was raised with IPA on 10 December 2022, but while IPA accepted and 
later settled that claim, Mrs B and Mr B were unhappy with the way itd handled matters 
throughout it and complained. 
In summary Mrs B and Mr B complained there was a lack of communication and assistance 
from IPA while they were overseas. They said they were unhappy theyd found themselves 
arranging their own return home once Mr B was discharged. And they raised issue with the 
out of pocket expenses payment IPA had subsequently made. 
IPA didnt agree that itd failed to provide assistance. It explained it had been unable to cover 
costs straight away and highlighted some of the difficulties itd had in trying to contact 
various parties during that time, including Mrs B and Mr B. IPA did however agree thered 
been a delay in the out of pocket expenses settlement and paid £100 compensation as an 
apology for the trouble and upset that caused. 
Unhappy, Mrs B and Mr B approached this service, but having looked at the timeline of 
events our investigator they didnt think IPA had acted unreasonably during Mr Bs 
hospitalisation. They also thought the apology and compensation for the delay in making 
payment was reasonable. And so they did not recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs B and Mr B disagreed and explained Mr B was experiencing ongoing anxiety because of 
the way the hospital had described his condition. They said they couldnt believe theyd 
boarded a plane home without IPAs assistance, and while they appreciated the difficulties it 
had faced IPA had a duty of care to them which had not been undertaken. 
Our investigator empathised with Mrs B and Mr Bs experience but explained IPA had made 
a reasonable effort to progress their claim and hadnt been responsible for the service 
received from the treating hospital. So, as no agreement was reached the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B and Mr B have set out their position at length and I thank them for doing so. Although I 
have considered everything Ill not be responding to each and every point raised. Ill focus 
instead on those matters I consider to be central to the outcome of this complaint. 
Though I realise Mrs B and Mr B may be further disappointed by this, Ill not be upholding 
this complaint for the following reasons:
IPA had a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly and not reject them 
unreasonably. It was entitled to assess the claim being presented to it before 
determining cover, and that did involve it needing a variety of information such as 
records about Mr Bs current and historical health. 
Mrs B and Mr B say there was a lack of communication and assistance form IPA 
once their claim was raised but having looked at what happened and when I cant 
fairly agree. There werent any avoidable and unreasonable delays from IPA, and the 
available evidence shows a number of IPAs attempts to obtain the information it 
needed to determine cover were unsuccessful. I dont think it necessary for me to 
recite the entire timeline of events here, but as an example I note:
IPA was notified of the claim on 10 December 2022. On the same day it then 
made a number of attempts to contact the hospital (to request a medical 
report) but was only able to obtain a verbal update from it, attempted to speak 
with the medical team on board the cruise ship, and had difficulties getting 
back in touch with Mrs B. 
IPA received an update on Mr Bs condition on 11 December 2022, but it still 
didnt have all of the information it needed (such as the medical history from 
Mr Bs GP) to reach a coverage decision at that point. 
IPA was able to request the medical history on 13 December 2022 having 
received appropriate consent to do so and obtained it on 14 December 2022. 
Cover was agreed the same day but IPA could not reach Mrs B and Mr B to 
advise of this. 
Mrs B and Mr B say IPA should have sent a representative out to them while they 
were in B. Given the issues they faced with the treating hospital and the limited signal 
theyve spoken of having there too, I understand why Mrs B and Mr B feel this way. 
But providing in person representation wasnt a provision their policy provided for 
here. And while Im sorry to hear about experiences Mrs B and Mr B had at the 
treating hospital, IPA werent responsible for the facility or its actions so it would be 
unfair of me to hold it accountable as being so. 
IPA made multiple attempts to communicate with Mrs B and Mr B throughout their 
claim. Many of those, especially once it had reached a coverage decision, were 
unsuccessful. I recognise the impact Mrs B and Mr B say this had on them, but IPAs 
attempts do appear to have been reasonable. 
Im sorry that Mrs B and Mr B arranged their own travel home too. Based on the 
available evience IPA was not in a position to determine coverage before it did. And 
again, once it had determined coverage it was unable to reach Mrs B and Mr B to 
then provide any ongoing assistance with this. 
Again, I recognise my findings will likely disappoint but in all the circumstances I think IPA 
handled this claim promptly and fairly. I am not persuaded I can fairly uphold this complaint 
as a result, but I do hope that Mrs B and Mr B will understand my reasons for thisSeparately, I note the issues around the of out of pocket expenses no longer appear to 
remain in dispute. However, for the avoidance of any doubt I think the apology and 
compensation already provided by IPA in relation to this is both a fair and proportionate 
reflection of the impact the delay caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman