DRN-4055029
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about a joint current account they have with Bank of Scotland plc 
(BoS) trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case because I wanted to give both 
parties the chance to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to consider 
before coming to my final decision. I have copied my provisional decision below, which forms 
part of this final decision.
In May 2021, Mr S received a letter from Halifax asking him to get in touch if he wanted his
debit card renewing once it expired. Mr S spoke to someone at Halifax through an online
chat facility where they told him his new card would arrive ten days prior to his existing card
expiring.
On 25 June 2022, Mr S contacted Halifax to check on the status of his card because he
hadnt received it. Halifax explained to Mr S that it hadnt sent him a new card, apologised
and ordered one on this day.
Mr S also wanted to check on the status of Mrs Ss card  although he was told by Halifax
that for security reasons, they would need so speak to Mrs S about it.
Mr S says that Mrs S was offered a personalised service during a call she had with Halifax.
Mr S wanted to know what this service was, and he was unhappy that he hadnt been
offered it too.
Mr and Mrs S both complained to Halifax separately  and they received separate
responses. Mr S was offered £30 for the mistake it made when it told him it would send his
card and didnt. And Mrs S was offered £50 because incorrect information was provided
about the card renewal process, a call was disconnected, and a representative didnt call
back or leave notes on the case.
After Halifax sent its final responses, Mr and Mrs S continued to correspond with Halifax, but
they say that it has stopped responding and it hasnt answered their questions.
Our Investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They thought
the compensation Halifax had offered Mr and Mrs S for the things it got wrong was fair. They
also explained that Halifax has offered Mr S the same service his wife was offered on the
phone, so they didnt think Halifax needed to do anything more in respect of this point. The
Investigator also explained this service couldnt consider Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about
how Halifax had handled their complaint  thats because complaint handling isnt a
regulated activity and the rules this service must follow doesnt allow us to investigate
complaints about activities that arent specified in the rules.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with the Investigators response to their complaint. Because
they didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs S for providing the detail they have in response to our
Investigators view. I have read and taken into account everything that both parties have
submitted, however, my findings will only address matters I consider central to the outcome
of this complaint. So, I wont address every point that has been raised. I trust this wont be
taken as a discourtesy, but this reflects the informal nature of our service. And, to be clear, I
consider the crux of this complaint to be about the debit card that wasnt ordered for Mr S
(and the information he was given about the renewal process) and Mrs S being offered a
more personal service that wasnt offered to Mr S.
I note that Mr and Mrs S have also complained about how their complaint was handled, and
the lack of meaningful response after their complaint was investigated, however, this
service doesnt have the power to consider complaints about complaint handling, and so I
wont be commenting on this aspect of their complaint.
I dont think its in dispute here that Mr S requested a replacement card through the chat
facility online, and Halifax didnt order it at this time like it should have. I can see that Halifax
requested a replacement card for Mr S when he contacted it again in June. I can understand
that it must have been inconvenient for Mr S to have to contact Halifax about this. But given
that he still had use of his existing card at the time, I dont think its likely the detriment he 
has suffered here has gone further than the inconvenience in contacting Halifax. So, I think 
the £30 Halifax has already offered for this is fair and reasonable.
I note that Mr S has been frustrated by the fact he couldnt check the status of Mrs Ss
replacement card during the call. Halifax has explained that it would need to speak to Mrs S
before it could provide him with this information. I appreciate this led to Mrs S having to
contact Halifax to enquire about her replacement card, but I dont find this to be 
unreasonable, given that Halifax has an obligation to protect the security of its customers
information.
I understand that Mr and Mrs S feel as though theyve been given conflicting information
about what happens when a card renews. In this case, there was a different renewal process
for Mr and Mrs Ss cards - Mr S needed to actively contact Halifax to order a replacement
card as his previous card hadnt been used for more than 12 months. Mrs Ss card was due
to automatically renew because it had been used within 12 months.
From listening to the calls, I am aware that Mr and Mrs S were provided with incorrect
information when they were told that the cards were renewed and sent simultaneously.
However, another representative, the following day, explained the correct process. Its clear
to me how strongly Mr S feels about understanding the process for the card renewal, so I
can understand why receiving conflicting information must have been frustrating. However,
both parties received their new cards prior to the old ones expiring. While they might have
wanted to understand more about Halifaxs internal processes, I dont find that the operation
of their account has been negatively impacted by the conflicting information. And Mr and Mrs
S had already received their new cards at the point in which these discussions took place.
Because of this, I won't be asking Halifax to do anything more for Mr and Mrs S on this point.
Mr and Mrs S kindly provided me with the call Mrs S had with a representative of Halifax
where she was offered a personalised service. It is clear on the call that she was offered a
personalised service  and I havent heard any other call where Mr S was offered this sameservice. But just because Halifax offered something to Mrs S and not Mr S, doesnt
necessarily mean that Halifax has done something wrong.
Based on what Halifax has told me, it appears Mrs S was offered a private banking service.
More information about what this is can be found on Halifaxs website. There is a set
criterion to be eligible for the service. Halifax have said that the service would have been
available to Mr S as well, as long as he met the criteria for it (the current criteria for this
service is on Halifaxs website).
Mr and Mrs S both have separate customer profiles, with different marketing preferences 
which is a contributing factor to the reason Mrs S is offered products or services that Mr S
might not be offered. I havent seen anything to persuade me that Halifax did anything wrong
in not offering the service over the phone to Mr S.
Overall, while I accept that Halifax could have provided Mr and Mrs S with a better
explanation of the card renewal process, and it made a mistake when it didnt reorder Mr Ss
card when it said it would, I think that Halifax has fairly compensated Mr and Mrs S for the
things it got wrong. And so, I dont intend to ask Halifax to do anything else to put things
right.
Mr and Mrs S provided a lengthy and detailed response to my provisional decision. I have 
briefly summarised their main points below:
Mr and Mrs S now know what the personalised service offered to Mrs S was, 
because Mr S was offered it recently. And so differing marketing preferences couldnt 
have been the reason he wasnt offered it previously. The personalised service is a 
separate service to the private banking service.
Mr S still doesnt think it was fair that he wasnt offered the service when Mrs S was.
Halifax didnt respond in a satisfactory way to their complaint.
Halifax didnt add any further points it wanted me to consider in my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have provided a very detailed response to my provisional decision. And Id like 
to thank them both for taking the time to respond in such detail. I have read and taken into 
account everything theyve said, however this decision wont be addressing every point 
theyve made  although I have taken every point into account when coming to my decision. 
In response to the provisional decision, Mr and Mrs S havent commented on the issue of the 
replacement cards. So, I wont make any further findings in relation to this point. 
Their response mainly focusses on Mrs S being offered a service that Mr S wasnt. And that 
Mr S feels this is unfair towards him because he wasnt offered the same, even though they 
share a joint account. 
Ill start by saying the reference in my provisional decision to a personalised banking 
service referred to what the agent offered Mrs S on the phone. And the private banking 
service is the service offered to some of Halifaxs customers  and the service Halifax 
thought was likely to have been offered to Mrs S when she spoke to its representative that 
day. Mr and Mrs S have had the opportunity to review the information on BoSs website relating 
to the private banking service Halifax thought it might have offered to Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S 
say they dont meet the criteria for this service and so they dont think that this is what was 
offered to her. 
Since I issued my provisional decision, Mr S said hed spoken to Halifax recently and has 
now been offered the same service Mrs S was offered back in 2021. I have listened to the 
recent call Mr S had with Halifax, and I agree that the details of the service being offered 
sound very similar to what Mrs S was previously offered. However, there werent any call 
notes left about what Mrs S was offered previously, so I cant know if it was the same service 
or not. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss strength of feeling about this point, but there is no way for me to 
know for certain exactly what service they were meant to offer Mrs S. Im not making a 
finding in this decision about what the service offered was, because I dont find that it makes 
a difference to the overall outcome of this complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that Mr and Mrs S have different marketing 
preferences. Marketing preferences will generally determine what (if any) products and 
services are offered to customers. So, for this reason, I dont find it unfair that Mrs S was 
offered something that Mr S wasnt. I appreciate that Mr S was offered this more recently, 
however this was after he proactively made enquiries about it. 
In addition to this, during the recent call Mr S had with Halifax, where he was offered a 
personalised service, he was told that not everyone had been trained to offer this type of 
service to customers. And so again, this could be a contributing factor to why Mrs S was 
offered a service, that Mr S wasnt. 
Mr and Mrs S have reiterated that the account Mrs S was calling about was the joint 
account, and so they think that both parties should have been offered the same service. But 
I wouldnt have expected Halifax to offer or market products to someone who had specifically 
asked not to be marketed to. And ultimately, Halifax can make a commercial decision to 
decide what products it offers, and to who  there isnt anything wrong with this.
I know Mr and Mrs S will be very disappointed that I cant provide them with more 
information about the service offered, what exactly it was, and why it was offered to one 
party and not the other. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont have enough evidence to 
persuade me that Halifax did anything wrong when it offered a personalised service to Mrs 
S, and not Mr S. 
I do find that Halifax could have done better in trying to get to the bottom of the issue of what 
the personalised service was. And it should have kept better records so it would be clear 
what exactly Mrs S was offered on that call. I can see that Mr S repeatedly contacted Halifax 
to understand what this service was. Clearly Mr and Mrs S have been very frustrated by this, 
and I can understand why. I accept that Halifaxs service could have been better here, 
however I am mindful that it has already compensated both parties for some of the things it 
could have done better, and I feel this overall award is sufficient. So, I dont think the 
customer service issues Ive mentioned above warrant further compensation.
I have already explained that I cant consider a complaint about how Halifax handled Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint, so I havent commented on their points about this any further.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman