DRN-3497432
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) blocked her account after 
she raised a fraud claim. 
What happened
In April 2021, Miss A raised a fraud claim with Nationwide regarding a payment of £170 she 
made on 5 February 2021. Miss A says a delivery driver sold her a TV package; however, 
she received a TV accessory which provided access to additional channels but only had a 
value of £39 if she bought it directly from the supplier. Miss A says she didnt get what shed 
paid for.
In May 2021, Miss A raised a new fraud claim with Nationwide regarding a payment of £300 
she made in September 2019 in relation to dental work she wanted done. Miss A says she 
hasnt received the dental work that she paid for.
When Miss A called Nationwide to raise the second fraud claim in May 2021, she told them 
she was vulnerable and had been manipulated into transferring money to people, giving 
away money and lending money. As a result, Nationwide placed a block on Miss As 
accounts which prevented any withdrawals and online banking transactions. However, they 
allowed chip and PIN and contactless transactions on her current account.
Miss A says she wasnt aware of the block being placed on her accounts until her card was 
declined and says being unable to access her funds caused her distress and negatively 
impacted her mental well-being. She also says she fell behind on her rent and other bills and 
had to withdraw large sums of cash in order to pay her bills  which caused her additional 
stress. Miss A explained that having that large sum of cash on hand also resulted in her 
overspending, saying she is £10,000 out of pocket.
Miss A asked Nationwide to refund her the payments she made to the two scams. She also 
complained about the block being added to her account and the effect that had on her, along 
with the poor service shed received.
Nationwide responded to Miss As complaint, declining to refund the scam payments. They 
apologised that it took longer than expected to give her an answer on her fraud claims, 
explaining theyd been waiting on information from the beneficiary banks who received the 
payments. They explained her accounts were restricted following her call with them on 17 
May 2021, which they say was confirmed in a follow up email, and that Miss As current 
account was available for her to use. However, any account transfers would have to be done 
by a phone call to their special support team. Nationwide felt it wouldve been more 
appropriate for them to call her to discuss the outcome on her fraud claims, so they offered 
£50 for the poor service.
Miss A wasnt happy with Nationwides response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
Since the complaint was raised with us, Nationwide agreed to refund Miss A £170 in relation 
to the scam payment made in February 2021 and pay 8% simple interest on that refund.
An investigator looked into Miss As complaint and upheld it. As Nationwide had refunded 
the February scam payment and paid interest in line with what we wouldve recommended, 
the investigator didnt make any further recommendation with regards to that payment. The 
investigator felt they couldnt fairly ask Nationwide to refund the second payment of £300 as 
they werent persuaded the payment was made as part of a scam as the payee is a 
legitimate business. They felt the dispute was a civil matter and that Miss A should pursue it 
directly with the company involved. But the investigator felt Nationwide couldve done more 
to support Miss A in relation to her vulnerability and needing access to her accounts. So, 
they recommended Nationwide pay a further £150 (on top of the £50 already paid) in 
recognition of the additional distress Miss A was caused. The investigator didnt feel 
Nationwide could be held responsible for Miss As increased spending.
Nationwide agreed with the recommendation. However, Miss A didnt agree, so the case 
was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide have already agreed to refund Miss A in full for the payment of £170 and to pay 
interest on the refund at 8% simple interest. As this is in line with what Id recommend if I 
upheld Miss As complaint regarding this payment, I wont address this payment in my 
decision. But Nationwide should make the payment to Miss A if they havent already done 
so.
Miss As payment of £300 for dental work
Nationwide are signed up to the Lending Standard Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), however, the code is only applied to payments 
made as a result of a scam. In this case, I cant fairly conclude that Miss A was the victim of 
a scam, so I cant ask Nationwide to reimburse her under any obligation in relation to the 
CRM Code.
The reasons Im not convinced Miss A was the victim of a scam include:
The company she paid is a genuine business that provides dental work and other 
cosmetic procedures and is registered on Companies House. The payment was 
made in 2019 and the company is still operating, nearly three years later. 
The company has significant positive ratings on online review websites. Its difficult to 
find reports online that suggest the company is running a scam.
Miss A has told us the reason the dental work wasnt completed was because of 
Covid restrictions, rather than the supplier refusing to do the work or failing to make 
arrangements for her to attend an appointment. 
The payment Miss A made of £300 was a deposit, whereas the total cost of work was 
over £1,400. I would expect the company to have tried to get more money from    
Miss A, if it was a scam.
Miss A says shes asked the company directly for a refund, but they refused to refund her. 
However, that by itself isnt enough for me to conclude that she was the victim of a scam. In 
this case, there isnt sufficient information to suggest that the company set out with the intention to defraud Miss A, which is a conclusion I would need to reach in order to say    
Miss A was the victim of a scam.
Also, Im not satisfied that the payment of £300 was sufficiently unusual or out of character 
that I think Nationwide shouldve identified that Miss A mayve been at risk of financial harm. 
Therefore, I cant say Nationwide acted unreasonably in processing Miss As payment 
without intervening or discussing it with her first. 
Having considered everything Im not satisfied that I can fairly ask Nationwide to refund  
Miss A for the £300 payment she made.
The impact on Miss A of Nationwide blocking her account after she raised her fraud claim
Miss A has provided extensive medical information to help us understand her vulnerability 
and how Nationwides decision to block her account affected her mental well-being. And, I 
fully accept that Miss A is particularly vulnerable and has a number of conditions which 
would be exacerbated by additional stress.
Miss A says Nationwide caused her unnecessary stress in several ways. She says she 
wasnt made aware of the block being placed on her account and wasnt aware she wouldnt 
have access to her funds. Shes referred to her card being declined when she was trying to 
buy groceries, and says she fell behind on her rent and other bills. Miss A says she had to 
withdraw large sums of cash to keep in the house to pay her bills and having the large sum 
of cash on hand resulted in her overspending - saying she is £10,000 out of pocket as a 
result.
However, having looked at Miss As bank statements for her current account between April 
2021 and July 2021 (the time the block was in place), it shows regular and almost daily use 
of her card for contactless transactions including use at supermarkets. Also, it appears that 
her direct debits continued to come out of her account as planned with no interruption due to 
the temporary block that was placed. And, having listened to the calls Miss A had with the 
business, the block they placed was in relation to withdrawals and online banking, but they 
told Miss A her credits into her account wouldnt be affected and she could withdrawal funds 
if she attended a branch.
Having considered everything, I think Nationwide couldve done a better job of updating   
Miss A on their investigation into her fraud claim. Also, I agree with Nationwide that they 
shouldve discussed the outcome of the fraud claim with Miss A rather than just writing to 
her. However, I think that Nationwide acted appropriately in placing the block in the first 
place based on their conversation with Miss A and her disclosure regarding her vulnerability 
and how shed been manipulated into transferring funds by people taking advantage of her. I 
would expect Nationwide to take steps to protect Miss A where theyve been told of a risk of 
financial harm. And, while I appreciate that Nationwide may not have told Miss A as quickly 
as they shouldve about the block, Im not convinced that I can fairly say Miss A was left 
without access to funds or agree with the degree of distress that Miss A is saying Nationwide 
caused her. That is not to say Miss A didnt suffer some distress, or that she wasnt impacted 
by the poor level of service.
I appreciate that Miss A is going to be very disappointed, but having carefully considered 
everything, I think the £150 recommended by the investigator is a fair award considering the 
issues identified where Nationwide couldve provided a better level of service. This payment 
is in addition to the £50 already offered by Nationwide  which they should pay to Miss A if 
they havent already done so. Putting things right
To put things right Nationwide Building Society should:
Refund Miss A for the £170 payment (if it hasnt already done so).
Pay interest on the £170 payment at 8% simple interest from the date Nationwide 
declined the claim until the date of settlement (if it hasnt already done so).
Pay Miss A £150 compensation, in addition to the £50 already offered which should 
also be paid (if it hasnt already been paid).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society and 
require it to compensate Miss A as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman