DRN-3349922
The complaint
Mr F complains about the amount that hes been charged by Alphabet (GB) Limited for 
damage to a car that he returned a car at the end of his hire agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr F under a hire agreement with Alphabet that he signed in 
August 2018. The car was collected from him in September 2021 at the end of the 
agreement by a third party on behalf of Alphabet and the car was also inspected. The 
inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 27,440 miles and identified a scratched door 
with an estimated cost of £160. Alphabet charged Mr F £160 for the damage but he 
complained about the charge and said that the car had been returned with less than the 
contracted mileage.
Alphabet said that the charge had been applied correctly as the scratch wasnt considered to 
be fair wear and tear and that it didnt offset damage charges against any potential value 
increase as a result of under mileage. Mr F wasnt satisfied with its response so complained 
to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Alphabet was allowed to charge for any damage that exceeded fair wear and tear and she 
was satisfied that the charge was correct. She also said that, even if a car was returned with 
less mileage, damage that exceeded fair wear and tear would still be charged.
Mr F has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the point 
of his complaint is the return of vehicle contract terms and Alphabets unequal and unfair 
application of the terms. He says that Alphabet has written to him and said that it doesnt 
 charge for the repair of the damage but for what [it] expect[s] to lose on the sale of the 
vehicle due to the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
the hire agreement said: At the end of the agreement , if you do not return the 
Vehicle in good repair and condition (allowing for fair wear and tear)  we will 
charge you for the resulting reduction in the Vehicles value;
the car was collected from Mr F when the agreement ended and it was inspected  
the inspection report identified a scratched door and included a photo of the damage;
I consider that the damage is more than would reasonably be considered to be fair 
wear and tear and that its fair and reasonable for Alphabet to charge Mr F for that 
damage;
Mr F says that the car was returned with less than the contracted mileage which has 
a benefit to the sale value of the car;
Mr F had paid to hire the car for three years which included a maximum total 
mileage, in excess of which an excess milage charge would be applied  there was 
no provision in the agreement for the hire costs to be reduced if the cars mileage 
was less than the maximum total mileage and I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for Alphabet to be required to reduce or waive the damage charge 
because the car had been used for less than the total contract mileage;
the inspection report estimated the cost of the damage as £160 and Alphabet 
charged Mr F £160 for the damage and it says that it doesnt  charge for the repair 
of the damage but for what [it] expect[s] to lose on the sale of the vehicle due to the 
damage;
my understanding of that is that Alphabet is saying that it charges for the reduction in 
the cars value caused by the damage to it  so a car with a scratched door would 
sell for less than an equivalent car with the same mileage but which didnt have a 
scratched door;
Im not persuaded that Alphabet is required to take into account the mileage of the 
car when determining what it expects to lose on the sale of the car as a result of the 
damage caused to it and Im not persuaded that the charge that was recommended 
in the inspection report was excessive for the damage; 
Mr F signed the hire agreement and I consider that the terms relating to total contract 
mileage and Mr Fs liability if the car was returned with damage that was more than 
fair wear and tear were clearly set out in the agreement  Im not persuaded that 
those terms were unfair and, if they werent acceptable to Mr F, I consider that it 
would be reasonable to expect him not to have signed the hire agreement; and
I dont consider that Alphabet has acted incorrectly in these circumstances so I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to reduce or waive the charge 
that its made to Mr F for the damage to the car, to pay him any compensation or to 
take any other action in response to his complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman