DRN-4191766
The complaint
Miss M complains about difficulties experienced when trying to use retail reward vouchers 
from Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Miss M has a credit card with Virgin Money that has a facility where by she can earn rewards 
by way of retail vouchers. Last year, Virgin Money sent Miss M five £10 e-vouchers for a 
business Ill call A. Miss Ms explained that when she tried to use her vouchers with the 
retailer, two were accepted by three were not.
Miss M contacted Virgin Money and complained. Virgin Money responded and apologised 
for the service provided when she called to query the vouchers, offering her £50. Virgin 
Money also said A only allowed a maximum of three vouchers to be used in any one online 
transaction. But Virgin Money said Miss M could use the remaining vouchers either in branch 
or online. Virgin Money added that if Miss M experienced further problems with the vouchers 
issued she should take it up directly with A.
Miss M referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Virgin Money had dealt with Miss Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to 
take any further action. Miss M asked to appeal and explained shed tried to discuss the 
vouchers with A directly but as she wasnt the party that issued them (that was Virgin 
Money) she was unable to resolve the problem herself. As Miss M asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
In response to Miss Ms complaint, Virgin Money said it was only possible to use three 
vouchers at once with A when making purchases online and suggested this was the issue 
she was experiencing. But Miss Ms told us she successfully spent £20 online. That means 
there was only £30 remaining when Miss M ran in to difficulties and the vouchers were 
rejected. So its unclear how the purchase Miss M attempted was for more than the £30 limit.
I also note Miss M told Virgin Money in an online chat that A didnt have a local branch so it 
wasnt possible to use the remaining vouchers in person. Im satisfied thats the case which 
meant Miss M was only able to query the vouchers online.
Our investigator contacted A directly and asked it whether the recipient of the vouchers 
could raise a query concerning whether they were valid. A confirmed that the vouchers could 
only be queried by the ordering party which is Virgin Money in this case. That means Miss 
Ms been left with vouchers that havent worked that shes also unable to query directly with 
the retailer. Im not persuaded thats a fair outcome to Miss Ms complaint.
Its not clear why the vouchers dont work. But Im satisfied Miss M has made reasonable 
attempts to spend them. And Virgin Money is best placed to contact A to discuss the matter 
further. Especially given A has confirmed Miss M cant query the status of the vouchers 
directly. I dont agree its fair to leave the situation with Miss M to resolve.
Ive considered how to fairly resolve this complaint. Virgin Money has already offered Miss M 
£50 for the service provided. I can see the issues have caused Miss M to spend a 
reasonable amount of time contacting Virgin Money. And I agree with Virgin Moneys final 
response that the service provided shouldve been better. In my view, £50 fairly reflects the 
level of distress and inconvenience caused to Miss M. Given the length of time the situation 
has gone on and issues raised, I think the fairest approach would be for Virgin Money to pay 
Miss M the cash value of the remaining vouchers  in addition to the £50 offered in its final
response.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct 
Virgin Money to settle in line with the above.
Both Miss M and Virgin Money confirmed they were willing to proceed in line with the 
conclusions reached in my provisional decision. No new information was provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided and both parties have confirmed theyre willing to 
proceed I see no reason to change the conclusions reached in my provisional decision. I still 
think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to settle by paying her the equivalent cash value of any unclaimed funds held 
on the vouchers it sent and pay £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman