DRN-2443321
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the interest Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as 
Very) has applied to her account.
What happened
Miss S has a credit account with Very. In October 2018 and April 2019 she purchased two 
items which qualified for a buy now pay later (BNPL) scheme. Under this scheme, if she 
paid the balance for these specific items in full by 11 October 2019 she wouldnt accrue any 
interest. If the balance wasnt paid in full by this date, the interest accrued during the 
deferred interest period became fully payable. The scheme also allowed partial payment 
during the BNPL period which would stop interest accruing on any amount repaid from the 
date of repayment. 
On 25 September 2019 Miss S made a payment of £150 to be allocated to her BNPL 
balance. On 8 October 2019 she made a further payment of £50 to be allocated to her BNPL 
balance. She expected the payments to reduce the amount of interest payable, but this 
wasnt the case. Miss S made a complaint to Very but it said the correct amount of interest 
had been applied. 
It said repayments needed to be made 28 days before the end of BNPL period in order to 
reduce the amount of interest payable and the terms and conditions explained this. As 
Miss S had made the partial payments within 28 days of the BNPL period ending, they 
hadnt reduced the amount of interest accrued. Miss S didnt agree this had been explained 
to her. She said had she known this was the case she wouldve made payments sooner. As 
she didnt accept Verys response, she brought the complaint to our service to consider.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They agreed Very hadnt clearly explained any 
payment made within 28 days of the BNPL period ending wouldnt reduce the interest 
payable. They also accepted that had Miss S been aware of this she likely wouldve made 
payment sooner. They asked Very to put her back in the position she wouldve been in by 
refunding a proportion of the interest shed paid and making a payment of £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Very didnt accept the investigators findings. It maintained the situation had been clearly 
explained to Miss S in the terms and conditions and that monthly statements also provided 
clear information about how interest was calculated. As such, the complaint was passed to 
me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year explaining I agreed Miss S wasnt given clear 
enough information about the way the BNPL partial payments worked. So I didnt think she 
had been able to make an informed decision about how to make repayments. But, based on 
the evidence Id seen, I wasnt persuaded that had this been made clearer to her she 
wouldve made the payments to the account earlier than she did. So, I didnt feel shed 
suffered a loss.
Miss S didnt accept my decision. She said that:
It was unfair for me to assume what she wouldve done had she been given clear 
information from the start
Rules around BNPL changed shortly after the BNPL in question ended which she felt 
demonstrated the way Very was handling its BNPL accounts was unfair
She had believed the overpayments she was making to the account through the 
deferred interest period were reducing all balances on the account, including the 
BNPL balances
Although she had previously repaid a BNPL balance early, because she had repaid 
the entire amount this hadnt given her any insight into how a partial balance 
reduction worked
Id assumed that when shed said she held on to money for cash flow reasons this 
meant she wanted cash readily available and this was incorrect 
Her consistent overpayments to the account show she is a responsible consumer 
that strived to reduce interest where possible
Since the events the complaint centres around she hasnt made any further BNPL 
purchases from Very as she doesnt feel it can be trusted to provide accurate 
information
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Very was clear in explaining to Miss S the payments in question 
wouldnt reduce the interest. But, based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that had it 
done more to explain this she wouldve reduced the balance sooner than she did. Ive 
explained my reasoning below.
Did Very explain the delayed interest period clearly?
Very has provided various examples of where it says information was given to Miss S about 
how payments would work. In particular, its highlighted its terms and conditions, the account 
statements and information available on its website. This information is known to both 
parties and the content of them isnt in dispute here. So I havent gone into detail about 
every relevant part of the terms and conditions or the information provided on the account 
statements around BNPL. 
But, having considered everything carefully, I dont think Miss S reasonably ought to have 
known the payments she made towards her BNPL balance werent going to reduce the 
interest due. I say this because:   . 
In all of the information Ive seen, Very refers to the deferred period as ending on 
11 October 2019. When our service has asked it when the deferred period ends, it 
has also confirmed this is date is the end of the deferred period. In all the statements Very sent to Miss S, in the BNPL summary section, it confirms 
she can reduce the amount of interest payable as long as full repayment is made 
before the end of the deferred period. I havent seen any evidence Miss S has been 
told partial payments to reduce the interest payable would be treated differently to full 
repayment of the BNPL balance. 
On the September 2019 statement, which was issued less than 28 days before the 
end of the deferred interest period, it sets out clearly that Ms S could still avoid 
paying interest if she repaid the balance by 11 October 2019. 
I understand the terms and conditions provide detailed information about how 
statements are produced based on the previous 28 day period, and that the BNPL 
interest is shown on the first statement after the end of the deferred period. But I 
dont think its reasonable to expect an average customer to have interpreted and 
understood how this would impact partial repayments. But, even so, I think the more 
prominent message she was given throughout was that payments made by 11 
October 2019 would reduce the interest payable and I think its reasonable she relied 
on this.
I think there is some indication on the September statement that the situation with the 
BNPL had changed (the reduced BNPL balance, increased minimum payments and 
confirmation it now formed part of the general balance).  But the more prominent 
information, and the information Miss S had been given throughout the BNPL period, 
was that the deferred period ended on 11 October 2019 and that she was still able to 
reduce the interest payable.
Ive seen that previous statements refer to this particular BNPL period as 
Sep 19. But the same statements would also told Miss S she could avoid paying 
interest by paying the balance by 11 October 2019. So I think its reasonable she 
thought payments made up until 11 October 2019 would reduce the interest payable.
In addition to the above, Very has referenced the information it says was available to 
Miss S on its website regarding BNPL purchases and the deferred period. Whilst I accept 
general information might well have been available on its website, I think its reasonable that 
Miss S relied on the information she was given directly in relation to her account  she 
thought she understood how the BNPL offer worked from the information she was given and 
had no need to go hunting for additional information. That said, I dont think the information 
Very has said was available on its website provides any more clarification that partial 
payments made in the last 28 days wouldnt reduce the interest payable. 
In light of the above, I can see why Miss S didnt realise that she actually had to make partial 
repayments before the September 2019 statement was issued in order to avoid paying full 
interest on that part of the balance.
What would Miss S have done differently had she been given clear information?
Miss S has said Very didnt give her all the information she needed in order to make an 
informed decision about how to repay her BNPL balance and I agree. But, this doesnt mean 
the payments she made should now impact the balance the way she had thought they 
would. It means I have to consider what I think wouldve most likely happened if she had 
been given all the information she shouldve been given from the outset. 
Miss S has said she doesnt think its fair Ive made an assumption around what she 
wouldve done differently. But in situations like this one, where we cant know what wouldve happened, I need to decide what I think more likely wouldve happened based on the 
evidence Ive seen and on the balance of probabilities.
Although I have considered Miss Ss response very carefully, overall, Im not persuaded she 
wouldve made the payments sooner than she did if shed been given clearer information. I 
say this because:
In the six months leading up to the end of the BNPL period in question Miss S had 
paid more than the minimum amount on a few occasions. The amount she overpaid 
ranged between £5-£20. But, none of these overpayments had been allocated to the 
BNPL balance on her account. So during this period, reducing the interest on the 
BNPL part of her account doesnt appear to have been a priority for her.
Miss S has said she thought all overpayments reduced all the balances on her 
account. But I can see on several occasions she has specifically allocated funds to 
the separate balances on her account, including previous BNPL balances. She also 
specifically allocated the payments that form part of this complaint to her BNPL 
balance shortly before the deferred interest period ended. So Im satisfied she knew 
how this worked and that in order to reduce a specific BNPL balance she needed to 
request this.
Im satisfied Very provided clear information to Miss S that explained the sooner she 
reduced the BNPL balance, the less interest she would pay, it just didnt clearly 
explain payments made in the last 28 days wouldnt reduce the interest due. I can 
see that in May 2019 she had partially reduced a different BNPL balance several 
months before repayment was due, so Im satisfied she was familiar with this process 
and the benefits of doing this. Miss S has said this particular BNPL balance was 
reduced in full at the time, so it didnt give her any insight into how partial repayments 
impacted the BNPL balance. But from what Ive seen on her account statements, this 
was a partial reduction of the balance. And regardless, I think Very has provided 
clear information to her around this point.
When Miss S made the payments to her BNPL balance in September and October 
2019, she understood shed be saving a few days and weeks of interest. Shes said 
if she had known payments made in the last 28 days wouldnt reduce the interest, 
she wouldve made the payments sooner. But, I dont feel shes provided a 
persuasive explanation as to why, given that it wouldve reduced the interest payable 
by a greater amount, she didnt make the payments sooner than she did anyway. In 
an email to our service in October 2020 she told us she had the money available 
sooner but held on to the money just for cash flow purposes. Based on this, and 
the other circumstances Ive mentioned above, I think its likely she either couldnt 
pay earlier because she needed the money for something else, or reducing the 
interest payable wasnt a priority for her.
Ive noted Miss Ss comments about the rule changes around BNPL arrangements and Im 
aware of the changes shes referring to. But they came into force after the events of her 
complaint and arent applied retrospectively. So they dont apply in her case and I havent 
taken them into account here.
For the reasons above, on balance, I dont think Ive seen enough to persuade me Miss S 
wouldve been in a position to make payments any sooner had she been given clearer information.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman