DRN-4005704
The complaint
Mr G is complaining that Capital One (Europe) plc hasnt refund money he paid for flights, 
excursions and railway tickets. 
What happened
Mr G bought flights, two tour packages and railway tickets to travel to and around a country, 
who I shall refer to as P, in April 2020. Due to the impact of Covid-19, the flights were 
cancelled in March 2020. Mr G looked to get a refund of what he paid. Mr G says he got a 
partial refund for the tour packages, but didnt get any further refund. 
So, in July 2020 Mr G contacted Capital One to dispute the transactions and completed its 
dispute form. On receipt of this, Capital One sent Mr G a further email asking for information. 
However it didnt hear from Mr G again until January 2021 when he emailed to ask for an 
update. Capital One replied, sending the information request again. But this email didnt go 
through, so Capital One sent the request by post. Mr G then emailed Capital One to say hed 
received the letter and provided some further information. But he asked it to not contact him 
via email as he said hed advised previously that emails dont work for him.
Capital One sent Mr G a further form to complete, but Mr G said hed already provided it with 
everything it needs. So he didnt think he needed to provide anything further. As he was 
unhappy with the way Capital One was handling his dispute, Mr G raised a complaint. 
Capital One offered Mr G £50 in compensation for delays it caused in the handling of his 
dispute. But it maintained it needed further information to process the respective claims. 
Mr G remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She thought Capital One should refund the 
cost of the flights. She also thought it should refund the difference between what she thought 
Mr G had paid towards the tour packages (£1,192.19) and the amount refunded (£1,082.61). 
But she didnt think there was anything to show the train wasnt running at the time. So she 
didnt think there was anything to show the rail provider had breached the terms of the 
contract. As a result, she didnt think Capital One needed to refund this cost.
Capital One accepted the investigators opinion, although it disagreed with her rationale for 
why it should have to refund the cost of the flights. Mr G didnt agree with the investigator 
and provided a number of submissions setting out why. But, in summary, he said the 
following:
He disputed the amount the investigator said he paid towards the tour packages. He said 
he paid $2,300 towards the tour package, but had only received a refund of $460.
He also queried whether it had actually asked him for this information, given he never 
received the requests. But, he maintained hed provided everything Capital One needed 
when he first raised the dispute and he said it should have refunded everything then. So, 
even if the requests were sent, he queried why it continued to ask for more information. 
He also said he understood it was Capital Ones responsibility to gather this information 
 not his.
He highlighted that Capital One had chosen to communicate with him via email, despite 
him previously setting out he couldnt receive emails.
He said P was in a state of emergency in April 2020 and train travel was banned. So he 
queried how the investigator set out that the train ticket could have been used. And he 
disagreed that the train route would have been running as the destination was an entirely 
tourist area. He said he tried to contact the railway provider without success. So he 
believes hed taken all reasonable steps to pursue the claim.
As Mr G didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons. Ill now 
explain why.
Firstly, Im conscious Ive summarised this complaint and Mr Gs submissions in a lot less 
detail than hes set out. I dont mean any discourtesy by this and I assure all parties that Ive 
read and considered everything theyve provided. However, in this decision Ive focussed on 
what I consider to be the key issues. Our rules entitle me to do this and it simply reflects the 
informal nature of this service.
Mr G is complaining about the way Capital One handled a dispute over payments he made 
to the suppliers of the services he bought for his excursion to P. Where a consumer raises a 
dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the card provider can consider the 
dispute under two guises  chargeback and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (Section 
75). I would expect the card provider to consider both avenues. Ill consider both avenues 
separately.
Chargeback
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. When the 
card provider processes a chargeback it will initially temporarily refund the payment back 
onto the card account and then raise a dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then 
required to respond within a prescribed period of time with any further information it wishes 
to provide and set out why it thinks the chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is 
defended, then the temporary refund is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the 
chargeback can be pursued are strict and are set out by the relevant card scheme  which in 
this case was Mastercard.
However, in this case Capital One didnt attempt a chargeback because it said it needed 
Mr G to provide more information to enable it to do so and it says he didnt provide what it 
asked for. Ive thought about whether this was fair or not.
Crucially Mastercard has set out what an applicant would need to provide to present a 
chargeback claim which essentially is a summary of whats happened and applicable 
documentation. 
Ive reviewed the information Mr G gave when he first raised the dispute. He completed the 
relevant chargeback dispute form clearly setting out the grounds for his claim. He also 
provided evidence of the transaction. I think Capital One had enough information from this to 
have raised the chargeback on the transactions. But, even if Im wrong on this, I think Capital 
One could and should have done more to gather the relevant information it needed from Mr G. Capital One should have been aware of the limited timescales it had to raise the 
chargeback. I think it should also have been aware of the issues Mr G was having with his 
emails  given only a few weeks before this hed raised that he wasnt receiving emails from 
Capital One. Given this, I think it should also have sent the request by post. Had Mr G 
received this request, Im satisfied he would have replied immediately  given he did so in 
February 2021 when Capital One sent the request by post. And Capital One could have still 
raised the chargeback claim in time.
So Ive now thought about whether I think these claims would have succeeded had they 
been raised. Ill consider each one separately.
Flights
Mr G has shown that the airline cancelled the flights, so he was entitled to a refund of the full 
amount he paid for the flights. I dont think there were any reasonable grounds under which 
the supplier of the flights could have defended the chargeback. So I think its likely this claim 
would have succeeded and I think Mr G has lost out as a result.
It follows, therefore, that I think Capital One should refund the £513.26 Mr G paid for these 
flights. It should also pay 8% simple interest on this from when he first raised the chargeback 
until he gets it back.
Tour packages
I should first set out that Mr G could only ask Capital One to process a chargeback on 
payments he made on his Capital One credit card. Hes set out that he paid $2,300 for the 
tour package, but he hasnt given anything to support this. I can see that he made two 
separate payments on his Capital One credit card totalling £1,192.19. So this is the amount 
he could ask Capital One to refund. But, Capital One would be required to take into account 
any refund hed already received. I can see that, by the time Mr G raised his chargeback, the 
supplier of this package had already refunded £1,082.61. So Mr Gs potential claim was for 
£109.58.
However, Im not persuaded that this is a loss that would have succeeded. The relevant 
chargeback code would have been credit not processed. But crucially, its a valid defence 
available to the merchant to show that it issued a refund in line with the terms of the contract. 
In this case the supplier of the excursions would be likely to set out theyd already issued a 
refund in line with the terms of the contract. And any shortfall is likely to be down to either 
administration charges or currency fluctuations. I think this is likely to be a defence that 
would fairly be raised by the supplier. So Im not persuaded that a chargeback is likely to 
have been successful had Capital One raised it.
Railway tickets
I think there are two chargeback codes Capital One could have considered a claim under  
credit note processed or goods or services not provided. However I think both were likely 
to have failed and Ill explain why.
The terms of the contract set out that Mr G was entitled to request a refund if he cancelled 
more than 24 hours before the ticket date. But I havent seen anything to show he did cancel 
the tickets. The terms also clearly set out that no refund is payable if Mr G doesnt turn up to 
use the tickets. I note Mr G says he had continually looked to contact the rail provider, but I 
havent seen anything to support this. And, crucially, he hasnt provided anything to show he 
cancelled the booking before the last available cancellation date.The terms of the contract do set out that Mr G was entitled to a refund if the rail service was 
cancelled. But Ive not seen anything to show that the train service wasnt running. Mr G has 
provided a lot of information regarding the state of emergency in P at the time. And this 
sets people were not allowed to travel apart from in exceptional circumstances. But this does 
not mean that the rail service wasnt running. I do not dispute Mr G wasnt allowed to use the 
transport, but that doesnt mean the rail provider didnt provide the service. Ive reviewed the 
information Mr G has provided and other information available and I havent seen anything to 
show the service didnt run.
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show that Mr G was entitled to a refund or that the 
service wasnt provided. And I think this is likely to have been a viable defence. So Im not 
persuaded this chargeback would have been successful either.
Section 75
However, while Im not persuaded Mr Gs chargeback claim for the tour packages and rail 
tickets would have succeeded, Capital One should also consider these claims under Section 
75.
Mr G paid for these services on his Capital One credit card. Section 75 sets out that in 
certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Capital One is jointly liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the suppliers of these services. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here. 
Theres no claim for misrepresentation, so the issue for me to decide is whether I think it was 
fair for Capital One to say that Mr G hadnt provided sufficient information to demonstrate 
that the suppliers had breached the terms of their respective contracts. 
As I already think Capital One should have refunded the cost of the flights through the 
chargeback process, Im not going to consider this issue further. The remaining issues for 
me to decide is whether Capital One should have issued a further refund for the tour 
packages and the railway tickets under Section 75. As above, I shall consider each 
separately.
Tour packages
The tour packages were not provided and this is not in dispute. I acknowledge that this was 
down to the impact of Covid-19. But the terms of the contract set out that All tour bookings 
are entitled to a full refund, unless otherwise stated on the tour page, until [the supplier] 
connects you with the tour operator of the tour. And, as I said, Mr G hasnt had a full refund.
I understand that there may have been local terms and conditions that may have set out 
certain charges that relate to cancellation. But, irrespective of this, given the supplier didnt 
provide the tour, its unfair that Mr G is out of pocket. I think any charge that limits the 
amount of refund payable where the supplier doesnt provide the service is likely to be unfair. 
Ultimately Mr G has lost out financially following the service not being provided and Im 
satisfied that this is a loss arising from a breach of contract. As I said, Capital One is jointly 
liable for losses arising from a breach of contract. So it follows, therefore, that I think Capital 
One should refund the £109.58 that I think Mr G is out of pocket. 
Given I think Capital One should have upheld Mr Gs Section 75 claim, had it handled the 
claim better, I think Mr Gs out of pocket. But, unlike the refund for the flights, I think the 
refund would only have been issued after Capital One had completed its Section 75 
investigation. I think, a reasonable timeframe for this to happen is around two months. Mr G 
first raised the claim on 22 July 2020. So I think the refund should have been issued around 22 September 2020. Given this, I think Capital One should pay 8% simple interest from this 
date until he gets it back.
Rail ticket
For all the reasons Ive set out above why I think a chargeback claim is likely to fail, I also 
think this means that there hasnt been a breach of contract. As I set out above, Im not 
persuaded that Mr G has demonstrated hes entitled to a refund. I note Mr G has set out that 
he doesnt think it should be for him to have to provide this information. Hes set out that he 
understands that its for the card provider to gather the relevant information once he disputes 
a transaction. But I dont agree. Where a consumer raises a dispute regarding a transaction, 
the card provider will set out what information it requires. In considering a Section 75 claim, I 
would expect the card provider to request the relevant information that it requires to assess 
whether theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. And its for the consumer to 
actively engage and respond to any queries the card provider has raised to enable the card 
provider to fairly appraise the respective claims.
It's ultimately for Mr G to demonstrate that theres been a breach of contract  i.e. its not for 
the supplier or Capital One to show there hasnt been one. And the issue to consider is, not 
whether Mr G could use the ticket or not due to his circumstances, but whether the supplier 
made the ticket available. Essentially, Mr G needs to show that, either the rail service didnt 
run, or he hasnt received a refund that he was contractually entitled to.
As I said above, I havent seen anything to show that the rail service wasnt provided. I 
acknowledge that Mr G wasnt able to use the ticket, but, as I said, this doesnt mean the 
supplier has breached the terms of the contract. 
Ive also thought about whether this loss could be considered a consequential loss arising 
from a breach of a different contract  i.e. the flight providers failure to supply the flights. But 
in considering this, I need to consider whether this loss is a direct result of the breach of 
contract  i.e. would the loss not have happened but for the breach of contract. Ultimately, 
as Mr G has set out, whether hed been able to travel to P or not, he wasnt allowed to use 
the service due to Ps relevant Covid-19 regulations at the time. And I think its ultimately this 
thats caused him to suffer the loss  not any breach of contract by the flight provider.
It follows, therefore, that I dont think I can reasonably say Capital One is liable to refund the 
cost of the rail tickets.
Customer Service
I recognise Mr G is unhappy that Capital One continually asked him to provide further 
information and to fill out numerous forms. But, as I said, Capital One is entitled to request 
information from Mr G. I think Capital One could have presented the chargeback claim 
without asking for more information. But, as I also set out, I think two of the claims were 
likely to have failed whether it asked for this information or not. However Capital One would 
have wanted the information it asked for to proceed with the Section 75 claim to assess 
whether there had been a breach of contract or not. So I cant say Mr G has been treated 
unfairly by Capital One in this regard.
That said, as I set out above, I think Capital One was on reasonable notice about the issues 
Mr G was having with his emails. However, despite this, it initially only communicated by 
email, which I think was unfair. But I think the redress I set out above covers any financial 
losses Mr G has incurred as a result of this. Im also conscious Capital One has offered Mr G 
£50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused. I think this is fair 
compensation and I dont think Capital One needs to pay anything in addition to this.Putting things right
For all the reasons Ive set out above, I think Capital one should do the following to put 
things right:
1. Refund the £513.26 Mr G has paid for the cost of the flights. It should also pay 8% 
simple interest on this from when he first raised the chargeback (22 July 2020) until he 
gets it back;*
2. Refund the difference of £109.58 between the amount Mr G paid for the tour packages 
and the refund he received. It should also pay 8% simple interest on this from 
22 September 2020 until he gets it back;*
3. Pay Mr G £50 in compensation if it hasnt already done so.
* If Capital One thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
However, Im also conscious that Mr G had a travel insurance policy that covered that time. I 
think Capital One can fairly ask Mr G to evidence that he hasnt received a settlement for the 
above losses from his insurance company should it wish to do so. Mr G should provide this 
within four weeks of Capital One asking him to provide this. Capital One is not required to 
pay simple interest beyond this date on the above losses if Mr G takes more than four weeks 
to provide this information.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Capital One (Europe) plc to compensate Mr G in line with my instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman