DRN-2759880
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) have refused to cover 
the costs of unused flights when their holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs W bought a Boots Platinum single trip travel insurance policy 
underwritten by URV.  The policy was to cover their family holiday to Spain from 22 August 
2020 to 29 August 2020. 
Unfortunately, in March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against 
all but essential travel due to the Covid 19 pandemic so their holiday couldnt go ahead. 
They contacted Boots and submitted a claim for the cost of the unused flights, which the 
airline had confirmed were non-refundable.
URV decline their claim. It said the travel insurance policy held by Mr and Mrs W, didnt 
cover cancellation claims due to the FCO advising against travel.  
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and asked our service to look into what had happened.  
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. While she accepted the policy terms 
didnt include cancellation due to FCO advice, she wasnt satisfied the policy information 
given to Mr and Mrs W was sufficiently clear on that point.  Because of that, she thought 
URV should accept the claim.
URV didnt agree and asked for the case to be reconsidered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen, I agree with our investigator and for the same reasons.
Our investigator highlighted the relevant regulatory rules including:
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business which say;
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to;
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed. Appropriate information includes the 
information that must be set out in an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which 
gives customer an at a glance summary of their cover. The IPID includes a summary of the 
insurance cover, including the main risks insured, the insured sums, and where applicable, 
the geographical scope and importantly, a summary of excluded risks.
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Provides and Distributors 
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
Ive looked at the documents relevant to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, including the terms and 
conditions of the policy they held, and the IPID.
On page 4 of the policy documents, under the heading Criteria for Purchase it lists a 
number of conditions which must be in place for the insurance to be considered valid. It 
includes:
This insurance will only be valid, if at the time you bought the policy, everyone 
named on the insurance schedule
are not travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise 
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time 
of your departure.
And similarly, on page 2 of the IPID, it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.  For 
further details, visit: www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
For ease of reference, Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion.
On the date Mr and Mrs W were due to go on holiday, the FCO was advising against all but 
essential travel. So had Mr and Mrs W gone ahead with their trip, their policy would have 
been invalided and theyd have had no cover at all. They wouldnt have had the benefit of 
the various sections of the policy including amongst other things, emergency medical 
treatment abroad. This in effect means the policy would have had no benefit to Mr and Mrs 
W or their family.
On page 17 of the terms and conditions of the policy, it lists specific reasons where cover is 
provided for cancellation of a trip. It says:
If you are unable to travel because:
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts
a close relative or a close business associate of yours in your home country is 
ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip 
starts.
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
you, or a travel companion, being made redundant.
of the requirements of HM forces
your outward journey was delayed by more than 24 hours due to a force 
majeure event.So cancelling the trip due to the FCO advising against travel is not one of the specific, listed 
insured event for which cancellation cover is provided.
This means Mr and Mrs Ws claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their 
policy.
However, Mr and Mrs W werent covered under the policy when they followed the FCO 
advice and cancelled the trip due to the FCO exclusion set out under the Criteria for 
purchase. In effect, this means Mr and Mrs W had no cover whatsoever if they decided to 
travel against FCO advice, but also no cover if they cancelled the trip because of FCO 
advice.
And although thats what the terms and conditions of their policy say, I need to consider what 
I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this situation. In doing so, Ive taken 
account of the industry rules and guidance outlined above, as well as to relevant law, 
including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Having done so, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs W to have no cover when 
they had to cancel their holiday due to a change in the FCO advice, after they bought the 
policy.
Ive carefully considered the arguments URV has made about Mr and Mrs Ws policy. It said 
Mr and Mrs W could have bought a more expensive policy which would have covered their 
cancellation in the event of the FCO advising not to travel, that the policy terms show exactly 
what cover is provided and the exclusion highlighted by our investigator wasnt meant for the 
unprecedented circumstances of the Covid 19 pandemic. URV also said the FCO advice not 
to travel is immaterial as there is no evidence Mr and Mrs W ever intended to travel, or 
would have been able to anyway.
Im satisfied, based on everything Ive seen the reason Mr and Mrs W didnt go ahead with 
their holiday was because the FCO were advising against travel. Mr and Mrs W have said 
they would not have travelled against FCO advice and would not have travelled without the 
benefit of their travel insurance policy, especially as they were traveling with children.
And whilst I appreciate the exclusion highlighted wasnt intended for the unprecedented 
circumstances of the pandemic, these are the circumstances Mr and Mrs W found 
themselves in. Mr and Mrs W have said they didnt know their travel insurance policy 
wouldnt have covered them to cancel their trip in the event the FCO was advising against 
travel. So, Ive looked carefully at the information available to them when they bought the 
policy.
Having done so, I dont think the exclusion from cancellation claims arising from the FCO 
advising against travel was clearly sign-posted to them, and I think the implications of this 
werent made clear. I think this has left Mr and Mrs W in an unfair position. Ill explain why.
The FCO exclusion set out in the Criteria for purchase makes it clear travelling to a 
destination where the FCO has advised against travel invalidates the policy. But it doesnt 
say that no cover is provided for cancelling a trip if the FCO advice changes between buying 
the policy and the policyholders date of departure.
The IPID is designed to make sure customers have easy to understand, essential 
information about the policy but I dont think the FCO exclusion is prominent in the IPID. 
Cancellation claims due to FCO advice against travel is not included in the Whats not 
insured section. The IPID only contains the general exclusion that policyholders wont be 
covered if they travel against FCO advice.Page 17 of Mr and Mrs Ws policy terms and conditions contain a summary of whats 
covered under the heading if you are not able to go on your trip. This includes up to £7500 
for your proportion of pre-paid transport charges.  
On the IPID under the title What is insured? it lists a benefit of £7500 if youre unable to go 
on your trip and also £7500 if you decide to abandon your travel plans
On page 3 of the policy documents, the Summary of cover table says The table is designed 
to show you what cover may be available under this insurance, and is subject to the terms, 
conditions and exclusions detailed in the policy. Similarly, page 1 of the IPID says The 
following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the contract which can 
be found in your policy documentation. 
So Mr and Mrs W would have needed to go further into the detail of the policy wording to 
know whether they could claim if they had to cancel their trip because of changes to FCO 
travel guidance after they bought their policy. When they reached page 17 of their policy 
documentation, which sets out the cover if they are unable to go on their trip, claims arising 
from a change in FCO advice isnt listed as a specific exclusion.  Rather, claims for this 
reason are not listed as included.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the fact theres no cover under this policy for 
cancellation claims arising from the FCO changing its advice is clearly brought to the 
consumers attention.
I dont think its fair and reasonable for a customer to need to read the terms and conditions 
thoroughly, from beginning to end, in order to understand important issues about what is and 
isnt covered. I think a customer would be entitled to expect a restriction like the exclusion of 
cover for cancellation claims relating to a change in FCO advice, on a travel insurance 
policy, to be more prominent (for example, in the IPID).
Im also not satisfied the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from a change in 
FCO advice is transparent enough. The section of the policy, on page 17, which sets out 
what is covered if the policyholder is unable to travel, is in plain English. But the FCO 
exclusion set out in the Criteria for purchase isnt in the same place. I dont think it would be 
obvious that the policyholder would have no cover whatsoever if the FCO advice about 
travelling to their planned destination changed after they bought the policy. Even with a 
cooling-off period of 14 days. I think a consumer might not be able to easily understand the 
full effect on the policy. The way the cancellation section of cover and the FCO exclusion 
under Criteria for purchase and on the IPID, being presented separately, means their 
combined effect isnt clear.
I think, in these circumstances, this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between 
the parties. Mr and Mrs W were left without any cover at all when the FCO advice changed, 
and this shifted the rights and obligations under the contract significantly in URVs favour. I 
dont think the terms and conditions take Mr and Mrs Ws interests into account and Im not 
persuaded they would have freely agreed to a policy which left them without cover in these 
circumstances, had they realised thats how the policy would operate. I dont think the way 
the information is presented is fair and doesnt act in the best interests of URVs customers
Putting things right
I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint is for URV to accept the claim as 
covered under the cancellation section of the policy and consider the claim in light of the 
remaining policy terms and conditions, adding 8% simple interest from the date of claim to 
the date of settlement.If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customers in appropriate.
Payment should be made within 28 days of this service telling URV Mr and Mrs W have 
accepted this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and I 
direct it put things right in the way Ive outlined above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman