DRN-2894300
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained that IInsure365 Limited (IInsure365) mis-sold them a 
commercial insurance policy for a rental property.
For ease, I will only normally refer to Mrs H.
What happened
Mrs H owned two rental properties, which shared the same postcode. When they were 
flooded, Mrs H tried to make insurance claims for both properties. However, she was told 
that one of the properties had an endorsement that specifically excluded flood damage. Mrs 
H complained to both the insurer and IInsure365 as she said she was unaware of this 
exclusion.
When IInsure365 replied to the complaint, it said it was a non-advisory broker and that the 
policy documents it had sent at each renewal were clear and explained what cover was in 
place.
So, Mrs H complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
the flood endorsement was clearly outlined in the policy documents
As Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision will only be about IInsure365 and whether the policy was mis-sold. The actions 
of the insurer and the decision on the claim itself dont form part of my decision.
Those selling insurance have a responsibility to provide clear and fair information about the 
cover provided so that consumers can make an informed decision about whether to buy it. 
So, Ive looked at whether that is what happened in this case. Having done so, I don't uphold 
this complaint. I will explain why.
When Ms H first took out the policy for this property, it included cover for flood damage. 
However, when the policy renewed the following year, there was an endorsement for floods. 
Ive read the first set of renewal documents. As part of the documents, there was a 
statement called Important Notice, which said:
Your policy wording should be read carefully, along with your certificate and statement of 
facts to familiarise yourself with the level of cover. We do not give you advice as to whether 
this product is suitable for meeting your specific demands and needs; you must therefore 
carefully read the policy and other documentation, and
particularly the section on exclusions and limitations, to determine whether this product is 
right for you.
If you find the policy does not suit your needs or any information on the certificate and/or 
statement of facts are incorrect, please contact us immediately to make any necessary 
amendments to your policy.

Your policy has the following endorsements and exclusions.
 Flood Excluded
On the first page of both the statement of facts and the insurance certificate it said there was 
a flood exclusion clause, which read:
3: Flood Exclusion Clause
This policy excludes claims under Section 1 - Buildings and Section 2 - Contents resulting 
from:
a) The escape of water from the normal confines of any natural or artificial watercourse, 
lake, reservoir, canal or dam;
b) Inundation from the sea; or
c) Flood resulting from storm, tempest or any other peril.
When the renewal documents were issued the following year, the statement of facts and the 
insurance certificate included the same wording and the Important Notice about the need to 
read the documents was provided. The covering email from IInsure365 also said it needed to 
receive Mrs Hs instructions prior to the renewal date and that the policy wouldnt 
automatically renew. Mrs H confirmed to IInsure365 that she wanted to renew the policy.
Im aware that Mrs H also contacted IInsure365 when the policy renewed for the second time 
to query why the premium was higher for this property than for the other property she 
owned, for which the policy renewed at a different time. IInsure365 passed the query to the 
underwriter. When the underwriter replied, IInsure365 passed the response to Mrs H, which 
was that this property was let to students. Mrs H said the property was now let to someone 
in employment. IInsure365 then arranged for a new quote, which Mrs H accepted. New 
documents were issued, which still included the flood endorsement. I also understand that 
when the claim for flood damage was declined, Mrs H then spoke to IInsure365 and said she 
hadnt read the policy documents.
Ive also read the points that a representative made on Mrs Hs behalf about this case, 
including about the level of service IInsure365 provided, the assurances given on its website 
and Mrs Hs expectations around that service.
Ive thought about this carefully but, in my view, I havent seen anything to show that the 
policy was mis-sold. The policy was sold on a non-advised basis. This meant it was for Mrs 
H to decide how she wished to proceed and it was her responsibility to check the policy was 
suitable for her needs. When Mrs H was sent the policy documents, these explained that it 
was important to read them. The documents also clearly stated that there was an exclusion 
for floods at this property. Mrs H also confirmed at both renewals that she wanted to proceed 
with the policy. 
When Mrs H asked why there was a difference in the cost of the two policies, IInsure365 
also passed the queries and responses between the underwriter and Mrs H, and it issued 
new documents when Mrs H explained there was a change of tenant type. I think that was 
appropriate in the circumstances. Ive also thought about whether the two properties sharing 
the same postcode makes a difference. However, they were covered by separate policies 
that renewed at different times. It was still for Mrs H to read the documents each time the 
policy renewed for this property to ensure the policy was suitable for her needs. So, thinking about all the circumstances of this case, I dont uphold this complaint or require IInsure365 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman