DRN-4090086
The complaint
Mr J complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc handled a claim made under his car
insurance policy.
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to a 
different outcome to the Investigator. Because of this, I wanted to give both parties the 
chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to take into account before I came to 
my final decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
On 27 September 2022, Mr J was involved in a collision which caused damage to his car.
Initially the car was sent by West Bay for repairs, but then the approved repairer deemed the
car a total loss, and so West Bay passed the car to a salvaging agent.
Mr J has raised various concerns about the things he says West Bay got wrong, and I have
summarised these points below:
There were delays in his claim being processed and West Bay didnt update him 
during the claim period which led to him having to contact them on numerous 
occasions to get updates.
Mr J says that the valuation West Bay placed on his car is too low. He said he found 
other cars available for sale which have a higher selling price. And he says that West 
Bay hasnt taken into account the condition and history of his car when coming to a 
valuation.
Mr J told us that West Bay didnt give him the option to keep his car at salvage. He 
also says West Bay didnt tell him that his car had been sent to a salvage agent  
which has subsequently led to him not being able to collect several personal items 
from the car. He says some of these items hold sentimental value.
West Bay considered Mr Js complaint and upheld it in part. It agreed it had caused a delay
in Mr Js claim being progressed. And that it should have kept him updated on the claims
progression. Because of this it offered him £200 compensation. It also agreed to increase 
the valuation of Mr Js car to £3,052. West Bay asked Mr J to provide details and receipts for
the items he says were left in the car, so it could look into this matter further.
Unhappy with West Bays response, Mr J referred his complaint to this service. An
Investigator looked into Mr Js concerns, but they didnt uphold the complaint. They thought
the £200 West Bay had already offered Mr J was a fair way to settle the claims delays and
the customer service issues. The Investigator explained that theyd checked the motor
valuation guides and as a result, thought the valuation West Bay had placed on Mr Js car
was fair. And they thought that West Bay asking Mr J for more information about the
personal items left in the car was reasonable.
Mr J didnt agree with the Investigators view and raised a number of points in response,
mainly relating to the valuation of the car  in that he has evidence which proves that his car
is worth more than the valuation West Bay had come to. He explained that he didnt have
receipts for the personal items left in the car, and some of the receipts had been left in the
car  although he estimated the value of the items to be in excess of £1,500.
Prior to the complaint being allocated to me, West Bay offered Mr J £1,000 for the personal
items left in his car. Mr J reluctantly accepted this offer to draw a line under the matter.
However, he said he still wanted a decision on the other points he was unhappy with. And
so, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my provisional decision, I havent reflected all the information provided by both
parties. But Id like to reassure both parties that this isnt because I didnt see it, its because
I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to
either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable
outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own
answer, to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Id like to express my empathy for Mr Js situation. Its clear that his complaint and ongoing
claim has caused him frustration  and Im sorry to have read of the injuries Mr J sustained
during the collision. In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or
disregard the situation Mr J is in. But being independent means, I have to take a step back
and consider what both parties have said. And having done so, I intend to uphold Mr Js
complaint in part, but I understand it probably isnt as far as Mr J would like me to go in
resolving things in the way he wants.
Claim delays and customer service issues
West Bay have accepted that there were some delays in its claims handling and that it didnt
keep Mr J up to date with the progress of the claim as well as it could have done. I
appreciate that this has caused Mr J some inconvenience, but ultimately, I think West Bays
offer of £200 is enough to compensate him for this. I dont intend to ask West Bay to pay Mr
J more compensation for these things.
West Bays decision to sell the car to a salvage agent and unrecoverable personal items left
in car
West Bay has explained that it isnt its policy to offer its customers the option to keep their
car after it has been deemed a total loss. It also said that Mr J didnt ask to keep the car and
so it didnt have the option of considering this.
I agree that in certain circumstances, West Bays approach not to offer its customers the
option to keep the car is reasonable  this is where a car is deemed irreparable and unsafe.
But in this case, I dont find that Mr J not being given the option to keep his car makes a
difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen, I agree that Mr J didnt ask to keep his car, but I think this is more
likely to do with the fact that Mr J thought his car was being repaired, when actually it had
already been passed to the salvage agent. So, I dont think Mr J had the opportunity to let
West Bay know that his intention was to keep the car  if this was his intention.In any event, even if West Bay had offered Mr J the option of keeping the car, I dont think
its likely he would have taken it back. I say this because, the cost to repair Mr Js car was
deemed uneconomical  which essentially means that it would have cost more to repair the
car than it was worth. And West Bay would have also deducted what it would have got from
the salvage agent off any settlement it paid Mr J. All of this means that I find it unlikely Mr J
would have asked for his car back, given that it would cost more to repair, and the settlement
would be less.
But I think if Mr J had been told the car was being passed to the salvage agent, then he
would have had the opportunity to go and collect his personal items from it before it was
sold. It isnt in dispute that West Bay didnt give Mr J this opportunity. And so, I agree that
West Bay needed to do something to put things right for Mr J here.
Both West Bay (and this service) has asked Mr J for more information regarding the
personal items Mr J says were still in his car when it went to salvage. I think this is
reasonable to substantiate the loss. Mr J has said that he cant provide receipts because he
didnt keep some of the receipts and some of the other receipts were in the car  I think this
is also reasonable.
Mr J says that the value of the personal items in the car were around £1,500. But when we
asked Mr J for a breakdown of these costs, he didnt provide it.
Without any information to support what Mr J said about the value of the personal items,
West Bay offered him £1,000 to compensate him for the loss of the items. Mr J has accepted
this offer. However, for completeness, my view is that this offer is fair given that Mr J has
provided very limited information about the items.
I do accept though that the issue with the personal items has caused Mr J upset,
inconvenience and distress. He is now without the items, some of which I consider held
sentimental value which, as he says, a price cant be placed on them. I think West Bay have
caused Mr J unnecessary distress and upset on this point, and so I intend award Mr J £300
to compensate him for this.
Valuation of the car
Its probably worth starting off by saying that it isnt my role to value Mr Js car. What I need
to do is consider whether West Bay settled the claim in a fair and reasonable way, and in
line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr Js policy says, The insurer will not pay more than the market value of the car at the time
of the loss. And market value is defined as The cost of replacing the car with another of
the same make, specification, model, age, mileage and condition as the car immediately
before the loss or damage happened. When Mr Js car was deemed a total loss and
uneconomical to repair, West Bay offered to settle the claim by paying Mr J what it thought
was the fair market value for his car which was £3,052. I have noted that West Bay
previously offered Mr J lower amounts, however given this figure is its final offer I will focus
on this.
In assessing what we consider to be market value, we obtain valuations from motor trade
guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research of
likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations as well as the cars make,
model and other specifications. So, we generally find them to be more reliable than other
resources such as adverts. We also take all other available evidence into account, for
example, engineers reports.I fully understand Mr Js frustration with the situation hes in as he says hes found examples
of cars that are advertised for sale at a higher price. But these prices are likely an offer to
sell. The offers reflect that a consumer will want to negotiate the price at the time of
purchase. This is not necessarily the price that will be obtained. So, these advertised sale
prices can often be misleading when assessing the market value of a car.
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mr Js car at the time of the incident and
they produced the following valuations: £2,732 (guide one), £3,064 (guide two), £3,360
(guide three) and £2,857 (guide four).
Often where one guide is significantly out of line with (or different to) the others the accepted
practice is to disregard it. But I dont deem that any of the valuations from the guides to be
so different from the others that they should be disregarded.
Looking at the four guide prices together would be our normal approach, and one that we
normally think is fair to all parties. I think I need to take a pragmatic view of all the valuations
and not discount any of them. The criteria that drive the price are so varied, and some very
specific criteria such as age and mileage play a big part in determining the price. Because of
this it makes sense to rely on the guides and use the data provided within them to get to a
fair valuation So, with that in mind I think the correct approach would be to take all four
guides into account. The average of the four guides is £3,003.25.
It appears that West Bay has offered Mr J more than the average across the guides, and so I
think it has placed a fair valuation on Mr Js car and it is in line with the motor trade guides.
Because of this, I dont intend to ask West Bay to increase its valuation.
I have noted that Mr J says he has information which puts into question the valuation
produced by the guides. But he hasnt provided this service with the information hes referred
to. If Mr J would like me to take this information into account before I come to my final
decision on the matter, then he needs to send this to us before the deadline.
Summary
In summary then, I dont find that West Bay placed an unfair valuation on Mr Js car. I also
dont think it was unreasonable of it to not have given Mr J the option of keeping the car. But
I do agree that West Bay should have let Mr J know he needed to collect his personal items
from the car, and I can understand how frustrating it must have been for him to no longer be
in possession of these items. Based on the information Ive seen; I agree that West Bays
offer of £1,000 to compensate him for his financial losses here is fair, but I think West Bay
also needs to pay compensation of £300 to recognise the impact the loss of these items has
had on Mr J. This means that I intend to order West Bay to increase the compensation
award to £500 in total. I understand that West Bay has already sent Mr J a cheque for £200
 if this has been cashed, then West Bay can deduct the £200 from the total compensation
award.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision to say they accepted my provisional 
findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart 
from them. So, my decision is, for the same reasons as outlined in my provisional decision, 
that I uphold Mr Js complaint in part. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr J, West Bay must:
Pay Mr J £1,000 to compensate him for the financial loss of his personal belongings 
(if it hasnt already done so). 
Pay Mr J an additional £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
the loss of his belongings caused (£500 total including the cheque payment it made 
to Mr J previously). 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Js complaint. I order West Bay Insurance Plc to 
put things right for Mr J by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman