DRN-3716473
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited gave him incorrect information 
about the validity of his no claims bonus (NCB) following a gap between policies, and he lost  
his discount, causing his premiums to increase. 
 
What happened
Mr A previously held a motor insurance policy with Admiral. 
Mr A then didnt drive for three years, and when he wanted to drive again, he tried to take 
out a new policy with a different insurer. The new insurer wouldnt accept Mr As NCB 
evidence and so his policy premiums were very high. Mr A says he couldnt afford these 
premiums and so he isnt driving. 
Mr A rang Admiral and he was advised that if he didnt drive for three years, his NCB would 
reduce by one year but it would still be valid. 
Admiral have confirmed that the advice Mr A was given was incorrect and have paid him £30 
compensation.  
Mr A was unhappy with this as he says that he would like his NCB reinstated.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint and he thought that Mr A should be 
awarded £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Mr A disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will be upholding Mr As complaint and I will explain why. 
When Mr A called Admiral on 4 May 2022 he was given incorrect information. He was led to 
believe that his NCB was still valid and that he would be able to give that information to his 
new insurer and still get a discount. 
However, this information was incorrect, and will have caused Mr A some inconvenience. I 
can also see that he was promised a call back which didnt happen, and so for these 
customer service failings, I agree with the investigators view that £100 is a more appropriate 
figure for the inconvenience caused. I understand Admiral has already agreed to this. 
However, I cant direct that Mr As new insurer applies a NCB to his policy. Insurers vary in 
terms of what they will accept as NCB, and there is no standard period for which insurers 
honour NCB following a gap in insurance. These are commercial decisions, and not 
something that we can comment on or change. 
I havent seen any evidence that the advice given to Mr A impacted the length of time he 
chose not to have insurance for, and the information provided shows that he had already 
been without insurance for over three years at the time the advice was given. 
Putting things right
I think that Admiral should increase the compensation payment to Mr A from £30 to £100. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint against Admiral Insurance Company and direct 
them to put things right as above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman