DRN-4152241
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim made 
on his home insurance policy after his laptop was accidently damaged.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Admiral has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly  
and it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. It also has an obligation to treat 
customers fairly.
Information provided by Admiral reflects that an engineer inspected the damaged 
laptop and reported that it was in overall good working order. It could be repaired by 
replacing the screen and lid sensor. It isnt disputed that Admiral agreed to cover the 
costs of those repairs. 
The inspection report also reflects that the laptop showed little signs of wear. And 
although there were a few marks on the base case, it was in overall good condition. 
Mr K is unhappy because Admiral didnt cover any repairs to the base case. At the 
outset, when first discussing the circumstances of the claim with Admiral, Mr K says 
he mentioned the screen not working as this was the most pressing issue but he 
wouldve expected Admiral to have fully repaired the laptop, including dents.
Ive listened to that call, and when asked if there was any damage to the casing, Mr K 
replied that there are a few dents on the bottom but he said he couldnt be sure if 
they were there before the accident which led to screen being broken. In light of this, 
I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly by not covering any repairs to the base case. 
The policy terms and conditions dont cover any damage because of gradual causes 
including wear and tear. And based on what Ive seen, I think thats a reasonable 
conclusion for Admiral to come to. Afterall, Mr K, didnt know when asked at the time, 
whether the dents were there before the accident or not. 
Mr K has also said when the laptop was returned to him, he noticed some dents 
which werent wear and tear. Admiral asked Mr K to provide photos from before he 
sent the laptop for repair to show that they werent present before then. Hes said 
hes unable to so this. So, I dont have enough to conclude on the balance of 
probabilities that further damage was caused to the base case after it was sent for 
repair. 
Mr K has provided photos of the dents/marks to the casing but I dont think they 
conclusively show whether the dents were caused by the accident or were a result of 
wear and tear  or occurred after the laptop left his possession for inspection / repair.
Admiral has offered Mr K £75 for the time taken to deal with his complaint. Im 
satisfied that sum fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a 
result. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman