DRN-3426161
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt offer them a lower 
interest rate product on their mortgage sooner. As a result, they feel theyve significantly 
overpaid over the years, and could have avoided financial hardship.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2006. The mortgage was taken on a fixed 
interest rate of 4.49% which was due to end on 31 December 2008. In January 2009, Mr and 
Mrs B took out a variable rate (which was 3.89% at the time) which was due to run until the 
end of the mortgage term. 
Mr and Mrs B say they contacted Halifax in 2016, and twice in 2020 to ask for help with their 
mortgage as they were struggling with financial difficulty. They were given payment holidays 
as a result of those conversations.
In 2021 Mr and Mrs B saw an advertisement online for a mortgage broker suggesting that 
Halifax customers on variable interest rates were overpaying. Mr and Mrs B contacted the 
broker, who arranged a new interest rate product with Halifax for them of 1.36% fixed for two 
years.  
Mr and Mrs B complained to Halifax. They were unhappy that Halifax had not told them 
sooner that they could have saved money by switching to a cheaper interest rate. They said 
theyd contacted Halifax in the past to ask for help with the mortgage but had never been 
offered a cheaper rate. 
Halifax issued their response on 17 January 2022. They said its not possible for them to 
review every mortgage account to ensure its still suitable for the customer after holding the 
account for many years. Its the customers responsibility to review their own financial 
circumstances and approach the bank if needed. They said when Mr and Mrs B took out the 
variable rate product in 2009, the payments and details of the term were made clear. So they 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things, and 
said he didnt think Halifax had treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed, so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs B took out their variable rate product in 2009, this was due to run until the 
end of the mortgage term. Those were the terms agreed at the time, and Halifax have 
administered the mortgage in line with those terms. However, whilst Mr and Mrs B did have 
an interest rate product applied to their mortgage, there were no Early Repayment Charges 
(ERCs) applicable if they wanted to switch to a new, more favourable, deal later in the term - 
as they did in 2021.
 
Mr and Mrs B say theyve never received any promotional literature from Halifax suggesting 
they could change their product. It wasnt common for mortgage lenders to write to 
borrowers specifically about interest rate products that may have been available, and it 
wasnt something that was required by the regulator either. 
However, I have seen that from 2017 onwards, Halifax have included information about 
interest rate products on the cover page sent with Mr and Mrs Bs annual statements each 
year. I think this information made it clear that there may have been other options available 
to Mr and Mrs B, and what they needed to do to explore those options. It was then for Mr 
and Mrs B to contact Halifax and ask about taking out a lower rate if thats what they wanted 
to do.
But I do also note that Mr and Mrs B did contact Halifax about their mortgage. They say they 
called Halifax to ask for help with their mortgage as they were experiencing financial 
difficulty. They say Halifax only offered them payment holidays, they didnt discuss any other 
potential options such as reducing the interest rate.
Halifax have been able to provide recordings of two of those calls  one from 2018 and one 
from 2020. In both of those conversations Mr B had called and specifically asked Halifax 
whether they could take a payment holiday on the mortgage. During the call in 2018 he 
explained hed ceased his employment and was looking for another job, and in 2020 he 
explained he was returning back to work after having been furloughed. The conversations 
were solely about the payment holiday, and during the 2020 conversation Mr B explained to 
Halifax that the mortgage was not unaffordable, they would just find it useful to use the extra 
money to pay for other things.
Having listened to those conversations, I dont think Halifax were acting unfairly by not 
discussing interest rates with Mr B. Hed called them specifically to discuss taking out a 
payment holiday, and he didnt ask about what other options might be available to him and 
Mrs B in order to reduce their monthly payments. Halifax answered the questions Mr B had 
asked, and whilst I think in 2018 Halifax could have asked more questions in order to 
determine if there were other ways they could help, I dont think that would have resulted in 
them offering a lower interest rate product. I say that because Mr B had lost his income, and 
wanted a break from payments entirely. In that situation it wouldnt have been appropriate to 
have tied him and Mrs B into a fixed interest rate product when the future sustainability of the 
mortgage was so uncertain.
  
I know Mr and Mrs B have also mentioned conversations they had with Halifax in 2016 and 
again in 2020. Whilst I havent been able to listen to recordings of those conversations, I 
think on balance its likely the conversations would have been similar to those that I have 
listened to. When borrowers are experiencing financial hardship as a result of a change in 
their circumstances, whilst taking out a new interest rate product may help some borrowers 
in certain situations, its often more appropriate for the lender to explore other short term 
forbearance options that allow the borrowers time and space to get back on their feet  such 
as a payment holiday or a payment arrangement  which is what the bank offered here.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B are disappointed to find out they could have been paying less 
towards their mortgage over the years, and Im sorry to hear theyve gone through difficult 
periods. But from looking at all the information and evidence available to me, Im not 
satisfied theyve paid more for their mortgage as a result of anything Halifax have done 
wrong. 
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman