DRN-3059415
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Shawbrook Bank Limited declined his request for a payment holiday and 
didnt treat him fairly when he was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr G emailed Shawbrook Bank asking for a payment holiday on his loan 
agreement and to stop charges being applied on his account. He explained his business had 
been closed down due to the pandemic and he wasnt able to resume payments towards his 
account until he starts trading again.
Shawbrook Bank considered the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance but declined 
Mr Gs request for a payment holiday as his account was already in arrears. They asked him 
to provide details of his income and expenditure to arrange a payment plan. 
Mr G asked to repay the arrears across the remainder of the loan term. But Shawbrook Bank 
explained a payment plan could only be considered for a shorter term and was dependent 
on him providing information about his income and expenditure. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G asked Shawbrook Bank to calculate the monthly cost of spreading 
his arrears over the rest of the term  which amounted to around £25. He told them he would 
set up a standing order to make overpayments towards the account and clear the arrears.
But since a payment plan wasnt agreed, Shawbrook Bank continued to contact Mr G 
regarding the arrears on the account. Mr G felt he was given contradictory information as he 
believed a payment plan was already in place.
Mr G raised a number of concerns with Shawbrook Bank. In summary, he complained that 
they:
rejected his request for a payment holiday and took too long to tell him their decision.
refused to allow him to spread the arrears across the remainder of the loan term.
provided contradictory information about the payment plan.
recorded negative information on his credit file.
sent him letters about the arrears on his account.
didnt agree to remove the late payment fees.
ignored his emails and didnt call him back when promised.
Shawbrook Bank reiterated that they needed details of his income and expenditure to come 
to an arrangement on repaying the arrears and a payment plan wasnt agreed. They also 
clarified that they couldnt remove the late payment fees or negative information from Mr Gs 
credit file. But they apologised for failing to call Mr G back on 23 April 2020 and paid him £20 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr G referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator said that Shawbrook Bank had 
acted in line with the terms of the account and the relevant guidance. She didnt ask them to 
do anything more, as she thought theyd responded fairly and reasonably to Mr Gs 
circumstances. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for broadly similar 
reasons. I know Mr G will be disappointed, so Ive explained why.
Did Shawbrook Bank act unfairly in refusing to provide Mr G a payment holiday?
On 9 April 2020, the FCA published temporary guidance to firms such as Shawbrook Bank 
to provide exceptional and immediate support to customers facing payment difficulties due to 
circumstances arising out of coronavirus for a temporary period. 
Under the guidance, firms were allowed to grant a payment holiday for three months and up 
to six months (from July 2020 onwards) unless it obviously wasnt in the customers interests 
to do so.
But this only applied where the customers income had been impacted solely by coronavirus 
from the first national lockdown that took place in March 2020 onwards, and where the 
customer had no previous payment difficulties.
Looking at the statement of account, Mr G missed his contractual payments in November 
2019 and then again in February 2020  this was before March 2020. Based on this, I dont 
think Shawbrook Bank acted unreasonably in considering Mr Gs financial difficulties to be 
pre-existing, rather than solely as a result of coronavirus. This means Mr G wasnt eligible for 
a payment holiday.
Where a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulties, firms were required to follow the 
existing rules and guidance rather than the temporary guidance issued in response to the 
pandemic. So, I cant fairly say Shawbrook Bank acted unreasonably when they refused to 
give Mr G a payment holiday. 
Shawbrook Bank sent a letter on 22 June 2020 to inform Mr G that his request for a payment 
holiday was declined. I think they shouldve sent this correspondence sooner, particularly as 
their system notes show that this decision was made on 30 April 2020.
But I dont think this impacted Mr G, as he was informed that his payment holiday request 
was declined when he spoke to Shawbrook Bank on 4 May 2020. Given that the temporary 
guidance was released on 9 April 2020 and came into effect on 14 April 2020, I dont think 
the delays in informing Mr G was unreasonable.
Did Shawbrook Bank do enough to help Mr G with his financial difficulties?
The existing rules and guidance for dealing with customers in arrears and default expect 
Shawbrook Bank to treat customers with forbearance and due consideration and allow the 
customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay.
In simple terms, this means Shawbrook Bank should treat Mr G fairly and give him 
appropriate support. But this doesnt mean Shawbrook Bank was obliged to agree to Mr Gs 
request to spread the arrears across the remaining loan term. Shawbrook Bank was entitled to explore all available options to support Mr G. Id expect 
them to get an understanding of Mr Gs individual financial circumstances to decide how best 
to help him.
Based on the arrears, Shawbrook Bank offered to arrange a payment plan over a shorter 
term of up to a year depending on Mr Gs circumstances. I think this is a positive step 
towards helping Mr G as this gave him a reasonable time to repay the arrears, and it 
wouldnt attract any additional interest. 
In order to assess Mr Gs situation, Shawbrook Bank asked him for details of his income and 
expenditure. I dont think this was unreasonable given that they needed to check if a 
payment plan over a shorter period would be appropriate for Mr G - in fact, I think it was 
necessary to ensure any payment plan would be realistic, affordable and sustainable.
I dont disagree with Mr G that completing an income and expenditure form can be tedious 
and be time consuming, but Id still expect him to co-operate with Shawbrook Bank so that 
they could assist him. 
During the call of 4 May 2020 and in their final response letter of 18 May 2020, Shawbrook 
Bank explained to Mr G why they needed information about his income and expenditure. He 
was also made aware of the consequences on his credit file if he made overpayments as 
opposed to agreeing a payment plan.
I appreciate Mr G wanted Shawbrook Bank to stop sending him debt letters. But given the 
arrears on the account, it wasnt unreasonable for Shawbrook Bank to issue the relevant 
arrears and default notices, as per the requirements of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
It was also particularly important to keep Mr G informed of the arrears on his account and 
any possible action that Shawbrook Bank might take, such as applying a default on his credit 
file.
Overall, Im satisfied Shawbrook Bank treated Mr G fairly and in line with the rules and 
guidance. Shawbrook Bank showed understanding towards Mr Gs situation and offered to 
arrange an affordable repayment plan, they gave him flexibility and time to return the income 
and expenditure form. They also provided information about organisations that he could 
contact to seek independent advice on his financial situation.
Did Shawbrook Bank provide contradictory information about whether a payment plan was 
agreed?
Ive listened to the call of 4 May 2020, when Mr G believes an arrangement to repay the 
arrears was agreed, to decide if he was given inconsistent information.
In summary, Mr G asked to spread the arrears across the remainder loan term. The agent 
told him that a payment plan couldnt be agreed without his income and expenditure details 
and explained this was to ensure the payments would be affordable and sustainable.
But Mr G didnt want to provide this information as he felt he could afford to repay the arrears 
over the rest of the term. He felt completing the income and expenditure form wouldnt be 
the best use of his time.
Mr G asked the agent to calculate the monthly cost of spreading the arrears across the 
remainder loan term. He was given an estimated figure of around £24.91. The agent 
explained to Mr G that although he can make overpayments to clear the arrears, unless an 
arrangement was agreed, his credit file would still be impacted.Overall, Im satisfied Shawbrook Bank didnt give Mr G contradictory information. The agent 
was clear that a payment plan couldnt be agreed and made him aware of the impact on his 
credit file.
Should Shawbrook Bank remove the arrears information recorded on Mr Gs credit file?
Shawbrook Bank is expected to report true and accurate information to credit reference 
agencies on how Mr G has maintained his account.
Mr Gs account was in arrears from February 2020 until September 2020, when a payment 
plan was agreed after he shared his income and expenditure details. Since Mr G didnt have 
a payment plan in place during this period, Shawbrook Bank have correctly reported the 
arrears on his credit file.
I cant fairly ask Shawbrook Bank to remove this from Mr Gs credit file as its an accurate 
reflection of how his account was managed.
Should Shawbrook Bank refund the late payment fees? 
Shawbrook Bank applied a late payment fee of £15 in November 2019 and then again in 
February 2020, as Mr G missed the contractual monthly payments
Ive looked at the loan agreement, and Im satisfied these fees have been applied in line with 
the terms and conditions. Shawbrook Bank arent required to refund these fees. 
I think Shawbrook Bank have acted fairly by not adding any additional interest on the fees 
and theyve given Mr G flexibility to repay it during the term of the loan.
Did Shawbrook Bank give Mr G poor customer service?
Ive reviewed the emails Mr G sent to Shawbrook Bank. In one of the emails, Mr G 
acknowledges that Shawbrook Banks automated emails let him know that they wont reply 
to emails as per their policy. So, I dont think its fair to say Mr G was ignored.
Looking through the system notes, I can see that Shawbrook Bank responded to Mr Gs 
email by either attempting to call him or sending him a letter in response to his concerns. 
Although the responses could have been quicker at times, I dont think the delays were 
unreasonable.
I can see Mr G was promised a call back on 23 April 2020, but Shawbrook Bank failed to call 
him. Theyve apologised for this and paid him £20 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. I think this is fair and reasonable taking into account the impact on Mr G. And I dont 
require Shawbrook Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman