The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that Sirius International Insurance Corporation unreasonably 
declined a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Whilst on holiday in August 2016, Mrs V's foot was dragged along the road whilst she was 
getting into a taxi. This affected the rest of the holiday because it affected Mrs V's mobility. 
Once she returned home, a doctor confirmed she'd sustained a soft tissue injury. 
Mr and Mrs V wanted to pursue a legal action against the taxi driver for negligence. Their 
travel insurance policy included cover for legal expenses, so they submitted a claim to Sirius 
via their broker. Sirius forwarded the supporting evidence to a solicitor and asked him to 
assess whether there were reasonable grounds for pursuing a claim, which was a 
requirement of Mr and Mrs V's policy. 
Sirius wrote to Mr and Mrs V in September 2016 to confirm that the solicitor had advised 
against pursuing the claim. The solicitor had concerns over Mrs V's failure to seek medical 
attention at the time and said the police report was illegible. Based on pictures, and Mrs V's 
description of her injuries, he felt the claim would be valued at less than what it would cost to 
pursue. Sirius said it was therefore declining the claim, but offered to review things further if 
Mr and Mrs V obtained a more favourable legal opinion. 
Mr and Mrs V sent confirmation from a doctor that Mrs V had suffered a soft tissue injury. 
But Sirius responded to say that this didn't overcome the obstacles that the solicitor had 
highlighted. It reiterated that if Mr and Mrs V obtained their own, more favourable legal 
opinion, they'd ask the solicitor to reconsider. 
Mr and Mrs V appointed their own solicitors, and won their case in January 2019. They were 
awarded £6,000, but a percentage of this was owed to their solicitors, so they only received 
£5,100. They made a claim to Sirius for the shortfall. They felt the fact that they'd won their 
case proved that Sirius was wrong to rely on the solicitor's opinion, which in turn meant that 
any legal costs should have been covered under their policy. 
Sirius declined to reimburse these costs. It highlighted that it relied on the opinion of a 
suitably qualified solicitor, which was well written and reasoned, to decline the claim. And it 
hadn't heard anything further from Mr and Mrs V despite presenting them with two 
opportunities to provide their own legal opinion to challenge the solicitor's. 
In any event, it said that Mr and Mrs V had breached a condition of their policy by incurring 
legal costs without its written consent. And that the policy terms require any legal expenses 
that it's provided to be reimbursed in the event of a successful action. So, if it agreed to pay 
Mr and Mrs V's legal costs, those costs would then be owed back to Sirius anyway.  
DRN-1409978Our investigator didn't conclude the complaint should be upheld. He felt Sirius was entitled to 
rely on the solicitor's opinion to decline the claim in 2016. And he didn't think the legal costs 
Mr and Mrs V asked Sirius to pay in 2019 were eligible for reimbursement under the terms of 
their policy. Mr and Mrs V didn't agree. I therefore need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I appreciate this 
will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs V, I've decided not to uphold it. I'll explain why. 
Mr and Mrs V's policy, like virtually all legal expenses insurance policies, requires there to be 
reasonable grounds for pursuing a claim. We don't think that's unreasonable. Court action 
can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldn't want to bear the cost of a claim 
they'd been advised against pursuing. An insurer can't be expected to either. 
When an insurer has relied on such a term, it's not our role to carry out our own review of the 
merits of the underlying claim. My role is to decide whether the insurer acted fairly. 
Generally, so long as the insurer has got advice from a suitably qualified lawyer with 
experience in the relevant area of law, it's entitled to rely on that advice to make its decision 
on the claim, unless we think the advice was obviously wrong or based on mistakes of fact. 
In this case, Sirius relied on the opinion of a qualified solicitor who was a partner at his 
particular firm, and had 20 years experience advising on liability claims. His opinion was 
based on Mr and Mrs V's testimony, the police report, and pictures of the injury. There's 
nothing that makes me think there was anything obviously wrong with his advice, or that it 
was based on factual errors. So, I'm satisfied Sirius was entitled to rely on it at the time. 
Sirius didn't have the benefit of hindsight that Mr and Mrs V have now. 
Mr V and Mrs V did subsequently provide a letter written by a doctor in the UK some months 
after the accident, confirming that Mrs V sustained a soft tissue injury. Sirius has said it 
discussed this verbally with the solicitor but it didn't alter his key concern about the paucity of 
contemporaneous evidence. 
Sirius did what I'd expect it to have done by inviting Mr and Mrs V, on more than one 
occasion, to submit their own legal opinion if they wanted to pursue things further. It agreed 
to reconsider the claim if that legal opinion conflicted with the one it had already obtained. In 
the absence of a response, there isn't anything further I would expect Sirius to have done.  
Mr and Mrs V didn't contact Sirius again until the claim was concluded. I wouldn't expect 
Sirius to pay their legal costs in these circumstances because it had no opportunity to 
reassess the claim's prospects of success, to appoint its own solicitors (or to agree terms of 
appointment with Mr and Mrs V's solicitors), or generally have any influence over the claim. 
And it was a condition of Mr and Mrs V's policy that they needed Sirius's consent to incur 
legal expenses. 
It's also important to emphasise that even if Sirius had accepted Mr and Mrs V's claim and 
authorised them to incur legal costs, the policy terms would have required Mr and Mrs V to 
reimburse those costs to Sirius if the claim was successful in any event. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold Mr and Mrs V's complaint. I therefore make no 
award against Sirius International Insurance Corporation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2020.
Mike Walker
Ombudsman