The complaint
Ms S complains that she has been the victim of a scam and that her bank, Santander UK 
Plc, didn't do enough to prevent it or to help her. 
What happened
Ms S has explained that she received an email, apparently from TV Licensing, asking her to 
update her direct debit details. She replied to it and, the following day, she received a call 
from someone claiming to be from Santander. They told her that her account had been 
compromised and that she needed to move funds to a "safe" account to protect them. 
Ms S then arranged for three transfers to be made to the account she'd been told about; 
those transfers totalled nearly £1,900.
Ms S remained concerned, however, and contacted Santander to ask what would happen 
next. Santander said it knew nothing about her account being compromised and that it 
hadn't contacted her. It appeared that Ms S had been speaking to a fraudster and had 
transferred funds to an account controlled by that person. Santander tried to recover Ms S's 
money from the account to which it had been transferred, but it had already been moved. 
Santander said that, since Ms S had transferred the money herself, it wasn't responsible for 
her losses. It had taken steps to try to recover the money, but hadn't been successful. 
Ms S referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. The 
investigator concluded however that Ms S had authorised the payments and didn't 
recommend therefore that Santander refund them. Ms S didn't accept the investigator's 
findings and asked that an ombudsman review them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for broadly similar reasons. 
The events I've described do appear, as Ms S says, to indicate fraud. It appears that the 
initial email to which Ms S responded was sent in order to gain information about her 
accounts. That information was then used in the telephone call the following day to convince 
Ms S that she was talking to Santander. Because she thought she was talking to Santander, 
Ms S believed she was helping to protect her money by transferring it to the "safe" account. 
DRN-1881082The issue I have to consider, however, isn't whether or not there was fraud here; I must 
consider who should bear the loss resulting from that fraud, since the money hasn't been 
retrieved. It's unfair that anyone should lose out, but either Santander or Ms S has to. 
As the investigator identified, Ms S herself made the transfers online. That is, she authorised 
them. My starting point therefore is that Santander was entitled to debit her account, unless 
there was good reason not to.
When the transfers were made, Santander didn't of course know anything about the 
fraudulent email Ms S had received, or about her telephone conversation with the person 
pretending to be from the bank. It only found out about them later. I don't believe the 
payments were particularly unusual or, of themselves, suspicious; it was only when 
Santander found out why they were made that it became apparent that Ms S had fallen 
victim to a fraud. I don't believe therefore that Santander had any particular reason to stop 
the payments or to contact Ms S to check what was happening. 
Even where, as here, a customer has authorised a payment, I would expect a bank in these 
circumstances to take reasonable steps to recover money lost. I'm satisfied Santander did 
that here, by contacting the recipient's account provider. Unfortunately, the money was 
removed from that account almost immediately, so those efforts were unsuccessful. 
For these reasons, I can't fairly say that Santander should have stopped the payments or 
that it should refund them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Santander UK Plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Ms S's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman