DRN-3372047
The complaint
Mrs T complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles has irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs T applied for a branded NewDay credit card in March 2020 and was accepted for a £900
credit limit. Mrs T complained to NewDay that they had irresponsibly lent to her and they
shouldnt have accepted her application as she was having financial difficulties at the time.
She said at the time of the application she had five defaults and two County Court
Judgements (CCJs).
NewDay did not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. They said at the time of the application, Mrs T
had told them that she was employed, with a gross salary of £45,000 and had unsecured
debt of £2,100. NewDays external checks showed that Mrs T had four defaults which were
registered 49 months prior to her application which totalled £2,300 and one CCJ which was
for £800, also 49 months ago. NewDay said Mrs T had no payday loans, no arrears and no
repayment plans at the time of her application.
NewDay said that as Mrs T had passed their criteria, she was accepted for a £900 credit
limit which never increased. NewDay said that as she had reached a certain point in arrears
due to the contractual minimum payment not being met, they had sold her debt to a third
party debt management company.
Mrs T brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld Mrs Ts complaint. He
said that NewDays data showed that Mrs T had an additional mortgage from June 2020,
however, this was not showing on NewDays data, so instead of total mortgage balances
totalling £232,322, NewDays data showed total mortgage balances as £103,000.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Ts credit file. Our investigator said that he couldnt agree that
Mrs T wasnt in arrears at the time of the application as her credit file showed she had one
months arrears on a hire purchase agreement. She had built up five months of arrears with
her energy supplier 18 months prior to her application. He said in December 2019, Mrs T
had built up three months of arrears on another hire purchase agreement.
Our investigator said that this should have prompted NewDay to do further checks. He
looked at Mrs Ts bank statements for the months leading up to her acceptance for the credit
card. Our investigator said that her bank statements showed she often had returned direct
debits (and incurred charges for this) for essential outgoings such as gas, electricity, council
tax and insurance.
Our investigator concluded that NewDay did not conduct proportionate checks and if they
had of done then he believed NewDay would have rejected Mrs Ts application. To put
things right for Mrs T, our investigator said that NewDay should refund all charges, fees and
interest which they charged Mrs T. He said NewDay should consider buying back the debt
from the company they sold it to and NewDay should arrange an affordable repayment plan
for Mrs T. He also said that NewDay should remove all adverse data of the account from Mrs
Ts credit file to reflect the lending shouldnt have been granted.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mrs T, NewDay needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances.
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did prior to accepting Mrs Ts application. They
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Mrs T
had gave them, such as being employed, earning a salary of £45,000, being a council tenant
and they looked at her credit file. NewDay said that Mrs Ts credit file showed she had
external unsecured outstanding debt of £2,100.
But thats not all the credit file showed. It showed that Mrs T had defaulted in the past and
had CCJs, but this was 49 months ago when these were applied. So NewDay would have
been aware that Mrs T had previously not maintained her agreements. But the data also
showed she had no accounts in arrears and no repayment plans.
So Ive considered if the checks that NewDay carried out were proportionate to the level of
credit that Mrs T was given. And despite the credit limit not being high in relation to Mrs Ts
salary, Im persuaded there are other factors which should have persuaded NewDay to
make further checks and Ill explain why below.
Mrs Ts application appears to have a contradictory information. While on one hand it is
documented she is a council tenant, on the other hand she is shown as having a mortgage.
Im persuaded that this should have prompted NewDay to make further checks to make sure
the accommodation status was accurate. They then would have found out that despite their
data showing she had one mortgage, she would have had two mortgages. This then should
have prompted NewDay to see if any other information was incorrect and completed
proportionate checks such as either contacting Mrs T to discuss her situation or by seeing
evidence of income/outgoings.
Im also persuaded that there was further information available to NewDay which should
have prompted them to make further checks with Mrs T. I say this as Mrs T had a CCJ within
49 months of the application. Given that the amount of the CCJ wasnt high  but it was
lower than the credit limit approved here (£800), this could indicate that Mrs T would struggle
to pay back even a modest credit limit, such as the £900 credit limit which NewDay approved
for Mrs T.
One of the other indicators of how Mrs T was managing her finances at the time is that she
had recently (five months earlier) been accepted from a third party for a credit card with what
appears to be a £1,000 credit limit. But Mrs T uses nearly all of this limit straight away. This
could show that she was not managing her finances at the time or she may be suffering from
financial difficulty. So for this reason, Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check,
NewDay should have requested information from Mrs T to discuss her finances, for example,
one of the things they could have requested were her recent bank statements to validate Mrs
Ts income and expenditure and living arrangements.
Mrs T has provided her bank statements so we could see how she managed her money atthe time. Mrs Ts bank statements show that between 1 December 2019 and 1 March 2020,
that she had 16 direct debits returned as she did not have enough money in her bank to pay
these. The statements also appear to confirm what Mrs T has said about also needing to
borrow money from other people, as she had previously told us. So her bank statements
clearly indicate that she had to borrow money from one month to the next to meet her
commitments and often this was still not enough to meet her commitments.
So Im satisfied from the information Ive seen here that Mrs T could not afford her
commitments prior to NewDay accepting her for the credit card without her borrowing to do
so. In my view, this was unaffordable for Mrs T. If NewDay had asked for details of her
outgoings/bank statements as part of a proportionate check when considering her
application, then Im persuaded they would have seen the payments on the credit card would
not have been sustainable or affordable and Im satisfied they wouldnt have accepted her
application for the NewDay credit card, based on someone who was clearly struggling to
meet her commitments and borrowing from multiple sources just to do so.
So, I intend to ask NewDay to buy back the account from the third party debt management
company and to arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs T, taking into full account
her current circumstances. I also intend to ask them to remove all interest and charges
applied to the account and recalculate what (if anything) Mrs T owes from the initial amount
she borrowed (taking account of any payments shes made).
As Im persuaded that had NewDay completed further checks which were proportionate to
her individual circumstances, they wouldnt have lent to her. They should also remove any
adverse information from Mrs Ts credit file relating to the NewDay credit card and ask the
third party company to do the same.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs T said she had nothing to add to the provisional decision. NewDay did not 
accept the provisional decision. In summary, they said the difference between a council 
tenant and someone who holds a mortgage wouldnt be significant enough to make further 
checks as there was no reason to think Mrs Ts financial situation was worse than they had 
suggested, they said that her residential status is not relevant to the question of affordability. 
They said their information showed Mrs T having a mortgage balance of £103,000 and 
compared to her gross salary, the NewDay account with a credit limit of £900 was clearly 
affordable. 
NewDay also said that if they had asked Mrs T about the residential discrepancy then Mrs T 
wouldve provided a reasonable explanation and it would be unlikely to have revealed she 
had a second mortgage. But even if it did, the application would likely to have been 
approved. NewDay said it was unreasonable to suggest a CCJ 49 months earlier should be 
held against her application and they didnt understand how a CCJ less than the credit limit 
they approved would indicate she may struggle to pay back a credit limit of £900. NewDay 
also said that to be aware of the fact she had taken a credit card with a third party provider 
and spent the £1,000 and used nearly all of the credit limit straight away then they wouldve 
needed to have requested detailed financial information from Mrs T, but they didnt think it 
would be reasonable to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay have made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read 
everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick andinformal body Ill be focusing on the crux of the complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
Ive considered what NewDay have said regarding the discrepancy in the residential status 
on the application and that this wouldnt have made a difference to Mrs T being accepted for 
the credit card. Theyve said that this wouldnt affect the affordability. But Im not persuaded 
that this should be the case. I say this as typically a homeowner would have more additional 
outgoings related to the mortgage than a council tenant would have. For example, a 
homeowner may be paying for buildings insurance, which a council tenant wouldnt be 
required to do, or life and critical illness policies, protecting the outstanding mortgage 
balance, and other possible associated costs. So Im not persuaded that the discrepancy 
shouldnt have been investigated.
In Mrs Ts situation, as she held two mortgages, then not only would she have the extra 
mortgage payment to make, which NewDay hadnt accounted for, but also, potentially extra 
associated costs with this. I see no reason why Mrs T wouldnt have disclosed this 
information if she was asked about her residential status. Just because a customer earns 
£45,000 gross, this doesnt mean that they automatically have sufficient disposable income 
to afford any credit limit, regardless if NewDay approved a £900 credit limit for her. 
The fact that Mrs T did have a CCJ registered against her for a lower amount than the credit 
limit granted is evidence that Mrs T may not be able to manage modest amounts of 
borrowing  even if this was four years prior to her being accepted for the NewDay credit 
card. She also had four defaults of which the total amount of defaults was £2,300  so again, 
at least one or more of the defaults would have been for less than the credit limit that 
NewDay had approved for her.
Ive considered what NewDay have said about not knowing that Mrs T had ran up nearly a 
£1,000 credit limit just five months prior to being accepted for the NewDay card. This is a fair 
point and I accept they wouldnt have known this without doing further detailed checks.
But in summary, Im satisfied that the discrepancy in Mrs Ts residency status should have 
prompted further investigation. And the fact that Mrs T had a CCJ and four defaults for 
relatively small amounts  even if this was four years ago. Then it would have come to light 
about the extra outgoings that NewDay hadnt accounted for at their underwriting stage. This 
should have prompted NewDay as part of proportionate check to request further information 
from Mrs T, for example her bank statements. Then it would have come to light that the 
payments on the credit card would not have been sustainable or affordable for her and Im 
satisfied they wouldnt have accepted her application for the NewDay credit card, based on 
someone who was clearly struggling to meet her commitments and borrowing from multiple 
sources just to do so. So Ill be asking NewDay to put things right for Mrs T.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles to:
Buy back the debt from the debt management company they sold Mrs Ts debt to and
contact her to put in place an affordable repayment plan;
Refund all interest and charges applied to the account from the date the account was
opened to the date of settlement;
If this results in a credit balance, refund that credit balance to Mrs T, and add 8% simple
interest per year from the date the credit card would have first gone into a credit balance to
the date of settlement;Remove any adverse entries on Mrs Ts credit file relating to her NewDay credit card and
ask the third party debt management company to do the same.
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles should settle the complaint in line 
with the instructions in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman