DRN-3737405
The complaint
Ms G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unreasonably delayed the transfer of
her existing pension plans to a flexi-drawdown scheme.
What happened
On 21 June 2019, Ms G met with Avivas adviser to discuss transferring three existing
pension plans to a new policy so that she could take a flexi-drawdown plan. The adviser
recorded, in summary, that Ms Gs stated aims were to bridge a gap in income before she
began to receive her state pension and increased rent payments and take a lump sum to
allow her to carry out renovation works at her home.
In October 2019, Avivas adviser completed a suitability report, setting out their
recommendations. This was passed to Avivas compliance team for sign-off. Following the
compliances teams review, the adviser re-submitted the report at the end of November
2019. The report was provided to Ms G at a further meeting on 12 December 2019. At this
point, the application couldnt proceed as Ms G didnt have the necessary identity
documentation which Aviva required.
And in early January 2020, Ms G told the adviser that she was going to be receiving funding
towards the renovation works and some funding towards surgery she was due to undergo.
She needed to carry out some repair works to the property too. And shed also changed one
of her future plans, as she was re-evaluating whether or not to take a course. So the adviser
felt he needed to prepare a new report. Ms G says there were significant errors in the report,
which she identified, and she passed on her concerns to the adviser.
Ms G had indicated that she wished for the transfers to be completed by the end of the
2019-20 tax year, to allow her to take advantage of the unused part of her personal tax
allowance by drawing down an additional tax-free capital sum. The adviser informed Ms G in
January that they were in plenty of time to do so. Ms G subsequently surrendered a separate
policy and sold some shares, which the adviser also wished to take into account as part of
their report.
The adviser received all of the information they required to complete the new report by 27
February 2020. The report set out their recommendations and was then referred for internal
checking. Due to a duplication in this process, there were additional delays until 11 March
2020.
So in mid-March 2020, the adviser let Ms G know that the transfers could no longer be
completed by the end of the tax year. Therefore, they suggested that Ms G might wish to
make use of Avivas self-serve option to carry out the transfers. But when Ms G looked into
this, she learned that the transfer could not happen in time, due to the transfer timescales.
Ms G was very unhappy with the delays shed experienced. In brief, she felt the adviser had
misled her as to the time the transfers would take. Shed initially been working to a deadline
of completion prior to the UKs withdrawal from the European Union and subsequently, to a
deadline of the 2019-20 tax year end. She stated that the adviser had recorded incorrect
information about her income. She considered shed lost opportunities to make use of the
unused portion of her tax-free allowance for that year and the value of her pensions had
dropped during the delays. Ms G felt that as a result of Avivas handling of this matter, shed
been caused upset and stress. Shed also had to cash in a life policy in order to access
funds and take money from a savings pot in order to get by.
Aviva didnt agree that itd been responsible for all of the delays Ms G had experienced. It
felt the case had been a complex one and that Ms Gs change in circumstances had
extended the period of delay. But it acknowledged that it couldve managed Ms Gs
expectations better than it had done and so it paid her £300 compensation.
Ms G remained very unhappy with Avivas handling of her transfer request and so she asked
us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Avivas offer of compensation was enough to put right its
mistakes. While she felt Aviva had provided a satisfactory explanation for the delays after
December 2019, she didnt think it had demonstrated why thered been a delay between the
June 2019 meeting and the completion of the advisers first report. But she noted that Ms G
still hadnt completed the transfers, which she didnt think was Avivas fault. Overall, she
recommended that Aviva should pay Ms G a further £200 in compensation.
Neither party agreed with the investigators recommendations.
Aviva stated that it hadnt caused the delays between June and November 2019  it
maintained that these were down to Ms G.
Ms G responded in detail to our investigator and so Ive summarised her response:
She didnt feel that the investigators assessment set out an accurate picture of the
facts and details;
Aviva had caused her ongoing tax and other real financial losses, as well as personal
detriment;
The unresolved relationship between her and Aviva had effectively placed a block on
her ability to look elsewhere for a pension provider or an alternative scheme;
Shed undertaken months of research ahead of the initial meeting with Aviva and had
provided comprehensive information, with no deficiencies which couldve caused any
delay;
At no point during Ms Gs discussions with Aviva had she ever suggested that the 
delivery of the original advice report should be held back pending the authorisation of
the renovation grant;
She set out some theories in relation to the advisers circumstances as to why the
presentation of the December report was delayed;
The adviser hadnt let Ms G know ahead of the December 2019 meeting that the ID
Aviva required was time-restricted;
The extended delay into the New Year had allowed Ms G to identify serious errors in
the initial report and refer these back to the adviser;
She didnt think thered been any imputation that the necessary property repairs and
renovation grant would have a material impact on her pension transfer decision;
The suggestion that she should use the self-serve option had been made in some
panic and desperation on the advisers part. When shed contacted the self-serve
team, itd become clear that any opportunity to complete the transfer before year-end
had passed;
Shes suffered the loss of two personal-tax allowances, and these cannot be
 recouped. This doesnt take into account the losses in the value of her pension fundsas a result of this matter;
Shed never had sight of the advisers second report. And she didnt have the
specialist knowledge to know what our decision might be, so she felt under a duty to
leave her existing pensions where they were;
The additional compensation the investigator had recommended was a trivial amount
and in no way represents her actual financial losses and the impact on her
personally.
Provisional decision
The complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 12 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I intended to uphold Ms Gs complaint. I said:
First, while Ive summarised the background to Ms Gs complaint and the submissions shes
provided, Id like to reassure her that Ive carefully considered all that shes said and sent us.
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point shes raised and nor do our
rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Its clear that Ms G feels very strongly about the way that Aviva handled her pension transfer
request. I dont doubt how frustrating this situation has been for her and I sympathise with
her position. Im thankful to both parties for the evidence theyve provided to us.
Aviva said that these types of transfers generally take around three months. Given the first
meeting with Ms G took place in June 2019, it seems that ordinarily, it wouldve been
completed by mid-late September 2019. Instead, the transfer to a flexi-drawdown scheme
still hadnt taken place by the time Ms G complained to Aviva, during March 2020. So in
deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive placed significant weight on the contemporaneous
evidence available from the time of the transfer, to help me to decide whats most likely to
have happened and whats most likely to have caused the transfer delays.
First, I considered the fact-find Avivas adviser completed following their first face-to-face
meeting with Ms G. This stated that Ms G was living on limited income, but that this would
improve once she became entitled to a state pension. Her stated aims were to access her
existing pensions to take a regular monthly income of £200 in the following tax year (20/21),
which would negate the need for Ms G to access her savings. She also wanted to take a tax-
free cash lump sum to carry out home improvements. Ms Gs short-term priorities were
noted to include the renovation work and the costs of medical treatment. Its clear from the
fact-find that Ms G wanted to get the renovation works carried out by the end of the tax-year.
The fact-find was updated after another meeting on 22 July. This stated that Ms G had been
told about a potential renovation grant during July 2019 and that shed been discussing this
with surveyors and the council. Additional notes on the fact find stated that thered been
limited progress during August 2019, as Ms G looked into the possibility of the grant.
It isnt at all clear to me from the evidence that Ms G asked Aviva to delay progressing with
the transfer process until she knew whether or not shed be entitled to the grant. Indeed, the
fact-find clearly states that if she was entitled to the grant, shed still take it and put the
pension monies towards a new kitchen too. As such, I dont think the evidence supports
Avivas conclusion that Ms G didnt want the adviser to proceed with drafting a report until
she knew the outcome of the grant application. Neither do I think the available evidence
indicates that the transfer process was in any way dependent on the grant. So I dont think it
was reasonable for Aviva to delay drafting the report until it received further updates on this
point. It seems to me that the drafting of the report could therefore have begun fairlypromptly following the initial fact-find meeting.
I can see from Avivas notes that the adviser requested valuations of Ms Gs existing
pension pots on 16 September 2019. This included valuations from a third-party pension
provider. This information was received broadly three weeks later. I dont think I can fairly
hold Aviva responsible for the delay in receiving the information. But in my view, the adviser
could have requested those valuations in June 2019, rather than waiting for a further two
and a half months. Given the timeline of events that actually followed, it seems that the
pension valuation information is likely to have been received in around three weeks had it
been requested in late June 2019. Had this been the case, I think the adviser would likely
have been in a position to draft his initial report by the end of July.
The evidence suggests that the compliance sign-off process took around six weeks. I think
that if Aviva had progressed the drafting of the report following the advisers first meeting
with Ms G, rather than unnecessarily waiting for information about the grant, the report
couldve been signed-off broadly by late August/early September 2019. This means I think
the transfer could potentially have been completed by the end of September /early October
2019. This was prior to Ms G being awarded the grant and prior to her circumstances
changing to the extent that the adviser seems to have believed the original report was no
longer appropriate. So I think its likely the transfer couldve progressed smoothly and well
within the timeframe Ms G had stressed was important to her had the application been
progressed promptly in June 2019.
If Im wrong on this point though and for completeness, Ive gone on to consider what I think
ought reasonably to have happened post the December 2019 meeting and Ms Gs review of
the report.
Its clear that a second report was drafted by the adviser and sent for sign-off by the
compliance team. Aviva and Ms G have provided conflicting accounts as to why a second
report was needed. Ms G says that she identified serious errors in the report. The advisers
note recorded:
She called me that morning [3 Jan] and said she had re-read the report and said it captures
"exactly the position we were at a month ago, but there have been recent developments that
mean a few things have changed". These were now needing cash for chimney repairs and a
re-evaluation of the plans to do acourse; I deemed these a major change to the SR so
could not proceed on the original one..
As I wasnt party to the discussions between Ms G and the adviser, I cant know with
certainty what was said. I do think though, that based on the change in circumstances Ms G
has acknowledged, it wouldve been reasonable for the adviser to amend his report if Ms G
had chosen to continue with an advised transfer process. And if there were mistakes in the
recorded information, these needed to be corrected.
However, I think Aviva let Ms G down by maintaining, on 23 January 2020, that the transfer
could still be completed by tax-year end. While this was theoretically possible, given the
adviser knew he still needed to complete a new report; submit it for checking and then the
existing pensions needed to be transferred to Aviva, I think he ought to have been aware
that there was a real chance Ms Gs aim might not be met. So he ought to have managed
Ms Gs expectations far better.
In my view, given the adviser went on to suggest that Ms G could utilise the self-serve option
in mid-March 2020, it wouldve been reasonable for the adviser to tell Ms G about this option
in January 2020, especially given his awareness of the importance of the transfer taking
place before the tax-year end. It seems to me that had she requested a self-serve transfer inor around 23 January 2020, there wouldve been more than two months for this to be
processed and completed. Instead, Ms G wasnt given this option until mid-March 2020  by
which point there was no possibility that the transfer could complete in time.
And I think, given its clear how important it was to Ms G that the transfer took place prior to
the tax-year end, if shed known there was a real possibility this wouldnt happen, shed have
taken the option of self-serve in January 2020. Accordingly, I think the failure of the adviser
to warn Ms G about the potential for the transfer to be delayed and the option to transfer by
self-serve caused Ms G to lose out.
Ive additionally gone on to consider what did happen rather than what ought to have
happened. Its clear that Ms G didnt go ahead with arranging the pension transfer in March
2020 and she didnt look elsewhere for advice for well over a year after making the
complaint. Ms G says she didnt take any further action because Avivas adviser told her to
stay put while her complaint was investigated. I asked Aviva if it could provide any evidence
of any correspondence it had with Ms G after March 2020. It told us that it had already
provided the records it had.
Having reviewed that correspondence, theres simply no evidence that Aviva gave Ms G any
kind of a steer about what her options were once she learned that the transfer couldnt
happen in time. Aviva had left her in a position where the transfer couldnt proceed before an
important deadline and it seems it then took no real responsibility to try and help Ms G move
forwards. Whether to continue on an advised basis, go ahead with the self-serve option,
keep the status quo or go elsewhere for advice. As Ms G wasnt an experienced investor
and had approached Aviva as she was worried she couldnt deal with this herself, I would
have expected Aviva to try to help her resolve things. Instead, it appears it simply left her to
navigate what to do next herself. I dont think this was fair or reasonable in the
circumstances.
With that said, Aviva has now confirmed that it waived the fees for the advice Ms G received.
So it seems to me that Aviva did take steps to recognise that thered been failings in the
advice process.
As Ive set out above, I think that but for Avivas errors, the transfer would have completed
by the end of the 2020 tax year  whether as a result of the report being written promptly
following the initial meeting or because Ms G could have taken the self-serve option in
January 2020. It follows that I currently think shed have been able to take pension benefits
before the end of the 2020 tax year had things happened as they ought to have done. Ms G
says her personal tax allowance wouldnt have been exceeded had the transfer gone
through in time. This was of real importance to Ms G.
However, the transfer didnt take place ahead of the tax-year end and Ms Gs income was
due to increase in the tax years following. So I think its likely that once Ms G begins to take
pension benefits, shell exceed the tax-free allowance. It follows that I do think Avivas errors
meant Ms G lost the opportunity to draw an additional tax-free lump sum from her pension.
As such, Ms G will suffer a financial loss she wouldnt otherwise have done when she begins
to draw benefits, as shell be over the tax-free allowance. And I think its appropriate that
Aviva should compensate her for this additional tax liability.
Ive gone on then to consider how I think Aviva should put this loss right. I dont know exactly
what Ms Gs actual loss will be as it will depend on how she draws her benefits in the future.
And I appreciate the situation has been made more complex by Ms G not drawing her
benefits back in 2020. However, as explained above, I think Aviva caused this situation by
not advising her how to proceed. And I think its fair to all parties to draw a conclusion to this
matter and allow Ms G to move on and give her some certainty.Aviva recommended in its second report for Ms G to take an additional lump sum of £13,600
to stay within her personal allowances for 2019/20 and 2020/21 (£8,000 and £5,600
respectively). I think its reasonable to assume that in future, given her increased income,
she wont be able to take these sums tax-free again. I think its fair and reasonable in the
circumstances for Aviva to pay 20% of this sum (i.e. £2,720) to account for possible future
tax liabilities. I appreciate this isnt a perfect solution and Ms Gs liabilities might be more or
less than that, but in order to conclude this matter, I think my proposed award is reasonable.
Ms G has referred to the fact that her pension funds remained invested longer than shed
planned. I understand she may have concerns that the value of these funds have fallen as a
result of them remaining with their providers beyond March 2020. Its fair to say that values
had likely fallen significantly in March 2020 as a result of the impact of Covid-19. However,
since then, the markets have recovered, and Ms G has therefore had the benefit of her funds
being invested for longer. On this basis, it appears unlikely that shes been financially
disadvantaged as a result of the funds having been invested longer than she intended.
Next, Ive thought about what fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Aviva
has caused Ms G should be. Aviva recognised it made errors and it offered Ms G £300
compensation. I dont currently think this goes far enough to reflect the trouble and upset Ms
G has been caused a result of Avivas delays and errors. Ms G was clear throughout how
important it was to her that this transfer happened by a particular date and she sought
advice many months ahead of that date. She told the adviser that she had medical issues
and that she needed to undertake renovation work so that her house remained safe and
accessible for her. She also intended to put the money towards surgery. Shes told us too
that she had to cash-in a life policy earlier than planned, in order to access cash and that
she was short of funds for some months. I dont doubt how frustrating and worrying these
delays were to Ms G, especially given she was assured that the transfer would take place in
time and she was left short of money and unable to access the funds she needed. 
On top of that, as Ive said, I dont think Aviva took steps to help direct Ms G as to what 
options were open to her. Given Ms Gs health in particular, I think the delays Aviva caused 
were likely to have had a significant impact on her, as they potentially affected her ability to 
complete the renovation works and undergo surgery and caused her real distress and 
inconvenience.
I appreciate Aviva waived its advice fee, which strictly, it was entitled to charge, given the
adviser did give Ms G advice she wanted and provided a report. In my view, on top of this
fee waiver and the payment for Ms Gs financial loss Ive set out above, I think it would be
reasonable for Aviva to pay Ms G £750 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva said that it disagreed with some of my conclusions, but it did agree that mistakes had 
been made. So it agreed to accept my proposed award of £2,720 in lieu of Ms Gs potential 
tax liabilities and to increase the compensation for Ms Gs trouble and upset to £750 (less 
the £300 it had already paid her). Aviva said that Ms G was at liberty to arrange a self-serve 
transfer or to contact an independent financial adviser for further advice.
Ms G considered that there had been some small discrepancies in the background to my 
provisional decision, but said she was content to let these pass. She had two broad queries:My proposed award for potential tax liability had been drawn from figures set out in 
Avivas second suitability report, which she hadnt seen so she couldnt give a 
precise judgment on the numbers it quoted. In the absence of the sight of the second 
report, she felt it was likely that the adjusted tax analysis on which it was based 
would probably have only taken account of the errors in the December 2019 report.
However, in Ms Gs previous submissions to us, she had stated that her unused tax 
allowance for 2019-20 and 2020-21 was £7,500 for both years. This was her full 
personal allowance, less her correct taxable gross rental income. These numbers 
had been accepted as being correct by HMRC.
Ms G said that one of the errors on the December 2019 suitability report was that 
Aviva had used net rather than gross figures for rental income. So, her working figure 
for total lost tax allowance over the two-year period was £15,000. 20% of this amount 
would total a potential tax liability of £3,000. Ms G queried which redress approach 
would be most appropriate.
Ms G questioned whether interest would be paid on the compensation figure, to 
recognise her loss of use of the money over the two-year period.
Ms G stated she was broadly content with my provisional conclusions and was 
minded to accept them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and Ill explain 
why.
Neither party has provided any further substantive evidence or comments regarding my 
conclusions in respect of Avivas failures during the pension transfer process itself. As such, 
I see no reason to change those findings and I remain satisfied that but for Avivas mistakes, 
Ms Gs pension transfer would most likely have completed before the end of the 2020 tax 
year. 
It seems to me that the only remaining issue for me to decide is the appropriate award to 
recognise Ms Gs lost opportunity to make use of her tax-free allowance. 
Ive carefully noted Ms Gs further representations on this point and the reasons why she 
considers that her likely loss is £3,000. As Ive set out above, my proposed award for Ms Gs 
potential tax liability was not a perfect solution. Ms G hasnt yet drawn down her pension 
benefits and so its not clear how much additional tax liability she will actually incur. 
Necessarily then, any award I make is designed to compensate Ms G for potential future 
notional losses, which may be more or less than £2,720 depending on a variety of factors. 
Ms G says that she didnt receive a copy of the second suitability report. It isnt clear whether 
or not Ms G did receive a copy of it or that her concerns surrounding the tax position were 
notified to the adviser following her review of the first report. I say that because Ms G sent an 
email to the adviser on 21 May 2020, which set out the rental tax allowance position, which 
her brother had alerted her to. This suggests that Ms G may only have learned of the tax 
allowance once itd become clear that the transfer couldnt proceed. And I note too that she 
stated:
I'm a little surprised that this arrangement was not flagged up in the Aviva quality reviews on 
your reports ...?I think this suggests that Ms G was aware of both reports and it seems unlikely that she 
wouldnt have requested a copy of the second report at this point if she hadnt already seen 
it, especially given she felt it contained tax-related errors.
In any event though, I dont think the content of the second report makes a material 
difference to the outcome here. I identified clear errors in the transfer process which I think 
will lead to Ms G losing the ability to draw down more of her pension benefits without 
incurring tax liabilities. Regardless of the report, it remains the case that any tax liability will 
depend on how Ms G goes on to draw her pension benefits and indeed, whether there are 
any changes in the tax-free allowance thresholds before she does so. So I simply cant say 
with any certainty what Ms Gs future liabilities might be. And its on that basis that I still find 
that an award of £2,720, representing 20% of the additional lump sum of £13,600, which 
Aviva noted that Ms G intended to take over the relevant period, is fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances.  
Ms G has questioned whether the compensation award I proposed to make would include 
interest at 8% simple. Ive thought about this carefully. However, as Ive explained, my award 
is for future notional tax losses. Ms G hasnt incurred any tax liability as yet and the funds 
remained invested in her pensions. I do accept that Ms G has suffered some loss of amenity 
as a result of not being able to draw-down her funds. But I consider that Ive reflected the 
impact this had on her in my award for trouble and upset. As such then, I dont think I could 
reasonably find that Aviva should pay interest on either money award Ive made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to:
- Pay Ms G £2,720 to compensate for likely tax liabilities
- Pay Ms G £750 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman