DRN-3639878
The complaint
Miss D complains that the car she acquired financed through a conditional sale agreement 
with Vauxhall Finance plc was of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
In June 2021 Miss D acquired a used car financed through a conditional sale agreement with 
Vauxhall. Immediately after receiving the car Miss D experienced faults with the car. These 
included: 
- Media unit failing on the forecourt. Dealership attempted to fix it on site, but the issue 
reoccurred on journey home.
- Car returned to dealership on 30 June for investigation. Software update required. 
- Car returned on 4 August for software update. Failed again. 
- Car returned on 4 October 2021 for screen replacement. Stop/start then began 
playing up and the USB port to charge also stopped working (suspected electrical 
fault)
- Car returned on 25 October  dealership said no fault found. 
- 10 December 2021- boot wouldnt open and reverse light and rear windscreen wiper 
failed. (on 4 Jan these issues were repaired)
- 28 Jan 2022 - power steering failure and warning lights came on - media unit failed 
again.
- Went in on 7 March and all issues resolved.
Miss D complained to Vauxhall and asked to reject the vehicle. In its final response Vauxhall 
said the dealer had repaired the car in a timely manner at no cost to Miss D. But as a 
gesture of goodwill it offered to complete a two month loan extension on Miss Ds loan 
agreement. It said this would not affect her credit file and would come at no additional costs. 
It also offered Miss D £100 for any inconvenience caused.
Miss D rejected this. She asked for all payments made at the time to be refunded and also 
25% reduction of the finance agreement. Vauxhall didnt agree to this but did offer to 
increase its compensation to £250. Miss D didnt think this went far enough given she wasnt 
kept mobile and experienced a lot of stress. 
Miss D further complained in May 2022 that the vehicle had broken down again  water 
pump, thermostat and alternator belt were replaced which Miss D paid for. 
Our investigator said that as the car wasnt experiencing faults at this time he wouldnt be 
able to ask Vauxhall to reject the car. But he said Miss D had experienced some distress 
and inconvenience and that it would be fair for Vauxhall to pay her £250 in compensation. 
Miss D maintained that this didnt reflect the stress and inconvenience she had experienced. 
She asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Miss D but having done so I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Under the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), 
Vauxhall can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of 
the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into account all the 
circumstances. In this case, at acquisition the car was over six years old and had 
been driven over 24,585 miles.
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time-but exactly how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors.
Under the CRA 2015, the consumer has a short-term right to reject within the first 30 
days. After this there is a right to repair. Although Miss D first reported problems with 
the car within 30 days, over a period of six months the dealer was able to fix them. 
And in this case the repairs were carried out at no cost to Miss D.
At the time Miss D brought her complaint to this service there were no faults in the 
car. And as there were no faults present we are unable to ask Vauxhall to reject the 
car. 
Miss D has reported that since bringing her complaint to Vauxhall the car has broken 
down again and she has needed to replace the water pump, thermostat and 
alternator belt at her own cost. Miss D has said she hadn't reported that fault to 
Vauxhall therefore I'm unable to consider it as part of this complaint. If she wishes to 
Miss D can raise a new complaint with Vauxhall.
As the investigators explained I am able to consider whether Vauxhall has treated 
Miss D fairly. Miss D has had to make several visits to the garage to have various 
problems looked at. She said she's been without a car for those days and was left 
without access to her boot. She also broke down at the side of the road which 
caused her some stress. I consider Vauxhall's offer to pay Miss D £250 fair and 
reasonable. I understand Miss D feels £250 doesn't reflect the distress and 
inconvenience she was caused but it is within our guidelines and what I would expect 
under the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Vauxhall Finance plc has already made an offer to pay £250 and to complete a two-month 
loan extension to settle this complaint. I think this offer is fair in these circumstances.
My final decision
Vauxhall Finance plc has already made an offer to pay £250 and two complete a two-month 
loan extension to settle this complaint and I think this offer is fair in these circumstances.
So my final decision is that Vauxhall Finance plc should:
Pay Miss D £250;
and complete a two-month loan extension at no cost to Miss D unless it has already done so. This loan extension should not affect her credit file or come at any 
additional cost to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman