DRN-3260958
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money treated him unfairly when 
he asked for support during the pandemic. 
What happened
Mr A contacted Virgin Money on 13 March 2020 to let it know he was experiencing financial 
difficulties after work dried up as a result of the pandemic. Virgin Money completed an 
income and expenditure assessment but found a deficit which meant it wasnt able to 
approve a formal repayment plan. But Virgin Money agreed to waive interest and charges on 
Mr As account going forward. Virgin Money call this a Hardship Plan. 
Mr A has told us Virgin Money explained there would be no impact to his credit file which is 
why he agreed to proceed. Virgin Money has confirmed its agent incorrectly told Mr A there 
would be no impact to his credit file. Virgin Money also wrote to Mr A to confirm the agreed 
action. Virgin Moneys letter said the plan was informal and still meant arrears would accrue 
on the account. In addition, the letter confirmed Virgin Money would ultimately report a 
default if arrears continued to build. 
In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued its Payment Deferral Guidance 
for customers impacted by the pandemic. The guidance said that where a customer has 
experienced temporary financial difficulties as a result of the pandemic businesses could 
offer a plan to defer interest and payments for up to six months without an impact to their 
credit file. But the interest would continue to accrue and either require repayment at the end 
of the agreed period or be added to the debt. 
In June 2020 Mr A missed a payment. At the beginning of July 2020 Mr A contacted Virgin 
Money and asked about payment holidays. But Mr A was advised it wasnt an option 
because his account was already on a Hardship Plan. 
In October 2020 Virgin Money sent Mr A a default notice due to the arrears that had built on 
the account. Mr A complained and Virgin Money sent his a final response. Virgin Money 
agreed it had given Mr A incorrect information over the phone in March 2020 and offered him 
£60 to apologise. But Virgin Money didnt agree to amend Mr As credit file or leave the 
credit card open. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was upheld by an investigator. They agreed 
Virgin Money had misled Mr A which had caused some frustration but didnt thin it had put 
him in a worse position. Virgin Money agreed to pay Mr A £200 to resolve his complaint. Mr 
A asked to appeal and said he didnt agree the agreed compensation is a fair way to resolve 
his complaint. As Mr A asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that Virgin Money incorrectly told Mr A the Hardship Plan wouldnt impact 
his credit file when he discussed it over the phone. Ive considered whether the wrong 
information Mr A was given impacted his overall situation. Whilst I agree there was a 
mistake, Im not persuaded Mr As overall situation is worse as a result. Ill explain why. 
The FCA Payment Deferral Guidance wasnt in place when Mr A called in March 2020. So 
Virgin Money completed a budget planner to see if Mr A could afford to enter a formal 
payment plan. But the budget planner showed Mr As income was less than his outgoings so 
Virgin Money wasnt able to agree a formal arrangement. However, the Hardship Plan had 
the effect of stopping all interest and charges being applied which meant any payments Mr A 
made from that point were used to reduce the outstanding balance. 
I note that Virgin Money also confirmed the Hardship Plan in writing. And the letter explained 
that arrears would continue to accrue which would ultimately lead to a default being 
recorded. So whilst I agree Virgin Money gave the wrong information over the phone, Im 
satisfied the follow up letter it sent confirmed the correct position to Mr A. 
Mr A has told us that before this issue his credit file had no missed payments or adverse 
information on it. I appreciate thats the case, but there was no guidance in place when he 
called in March 2020 that meant there would be no impact to Mr As credit file. So there was 
no option available that meant Mr As credit file wouldnt be impacted. And when the 
guidance came into effect it said it may not be suitable for customers already experiencing 
financial difficulties or in arrears. At that point, Mr As account was behind and he wasnt 
eligible for the Payment Deferral Guidance options. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr As position is broadly the same as it wouldve been if hed been 
given the correct information over the phone in March 2020. But I agree he was given the 
wrong information and initially led to believe there would be no impact to his credit file. As I 
can see this error has led to a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience Im going to 
uphold his complaint and tell Virgin Money to pay £200 to apologise. In my view, that figure 
fairly reflects the impact of Virgin Moneys mistake on Mr A. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money to pay Mr A £200 (less any compensation already paid). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman