DRN-2273106
The complaint
Miss J has complained about Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limiteds 
decision to lapse her income protection insurance policy and furthermore not refund her 
premiums from the point she believed she could no longer have obtained benefit under the 
policy.
What happened
In 1995, Miss J took out an income protection insurance policy with Sun Life. The policy, 
after a deferred period of six months, would pay a monthly benefit of £1,472 in the event that 
Miss J was unable to work due to illness or injury. The premium was £27.50. The policy had 
an investment element in that the premiums were used to buy units in an investment fund 
and these units were cashed in as necessary by Sun Life to pay for the cost of providing 
benefits under the policy. The policy was subject to periodic reviews to determine whether 
the policyholders premium was sufficient to meet their specified benefit level. The policy was 
due to run until Miss Js 60th birthday in 2023.
In September 2016, Sun Life wrote to Miss J advising that it had reviewed her policy in 
accordance with the policys terms and had determined that her premium was insufficient to 
maintain her current level of benefits. It outlined her options which included increasing her 
monthly premiums from £27.50 to £43.63 to maintain her benefit level until the next review. It 
said that if she didnt take any action it was likely that her policy would lapse in the next three 
years.
In October 2016, having not heard from Miss J, Sun Life sent her a reminder letter about the 
above. Miss J still didnt take any action and so continued to pay a monthly premium of 
£27.50. 
In April 2017, Miss J made a claim under the policy. Sun Life accepted the claim and, from 
the end of the deferred period, paid benefit of £1,472 a month. During the period of the 
claim, because she had waiver of premium benefit, Miss J did not need to make premium 
payments. 
In February 2018, Miss J became fit again to work and the claim ended. Her premium 
payments resumed.
In July 2019, shortly after taking the latest monthly premium, Sun Life advised Miss J that 
the policy had lapsed.
Miss J complained to Sun Life that it hadnt kept her informed that the policy was about to 
lapse. She wanted it to be reinstated so that it could run until she reached the age of 60, as 
she had anticipated.
Sun Life issued a final response letter not upholding Miss Js complaint. It said that Miss J 
had not increased her premiums following the 2016 review even though it had written to her 
about this. It said that under the policys terms and conditions there was a benefits 
guarantee which promised that the policy and its benefits would be maintained even if the 
value of the investment units was insufficient to meet this cost. It said this guarantee was 
initially removed in November 2016 but was reset when Miss J made her claim so that she 
could receive benefit payments. It said this guarantee should have been removed 
immediately when her claim ended in February 2018 and her policy should have come to an 
end in October 2018 when the investment value ran out. However, it had only realised this in 
July 2019 which was why the policy was only now being lapsed. It said it would have 
honoured any eligible claim made up until this time which meant its error had allowed Miss J 
to benefit from nine months further cover. It agreed to refund the most recent premium.
Miss J was unhappy at Sun Lifes response. She referred her complaint to us. She 
considered that if Sun Life was going to lapse her policy in this way, it should refund her 
premiums from the time her claim ended.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that it 
was fair for Sun Life to lapse the policy. However, he said he couldnt be sure that Miss J 
would have received benefit if she had made a claim after October 2018 given that the 
investment value had been exhausted by then. In view of this, and given that it was Sun 
Lifes error which caused the policy to continue after this time, he considered the fairest 
outcome was that Sun Life should refund Miss Js premiums from this date, plus interest.
Sun Life didnt accept the investigators findings. It insisted that it would have paid benefit if 
Miss J had made claim a between October 2018 and July 2019 when the policy ended, even 
though the policy was running in deficit. It said that the benefits guarantee was still present 
during this time. It considered that if it had not paid such a claim, it would have been a loss 
of expectation for Miss J and that, if she had complained to us, we would have made it pay 
the claim in any case. In view of this, and given that Miss J apparently wanted the cover, it 
considered she had benefitted from cheaper cover over a longer period and it therefore 
should not have to refund the premiums for the period in question. 
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms make clear that the policy is subject to regular review to determine whether 
the premium is sufficient to provide the insured level of benefit and that Sun Life may ask 
Miss J to increase her premiums if the review shows this is necessary. The policy also 
makes clear that if the value of the investment units is no longer sufficient to meet the 
policys expenses, the policy will lapse (unless the benefit guarantee is in force, about which 
I say more later).  
Sun Life wrote to Miss J in September 2016 to advise that, following its review, she needed 
to increase her premiums to maintain her current level of benefit. It wrote to her again in 
October 2016 to remind her of this. Miss J didnt take action to increase her premiums. As a 
result, the investment value of her units eventually ran out. Im satisfied that, in these 
circumstances, it was reasonable for Sun Life to tell Miss J her policy had ended even 
though this was before the scheduled end date.
This leaves the question of whether Sun Life should refund some of Miss Js premiums.
The policy has a benefits guarantee under which the policy and its benefits remain in force 
even though the value of the investment units is no longer sufficient to sustain the policy. 
The policy says that the benefits guarantee immediately ceases to apply if the insured person doesnt pay the stipulated premium for their specified level of benefit. However, Sun 
Life may reinstate the benefits guarantee at its discretion.
In this case, Miss J didnt increase her premiums when she was asked to do so by Sun Life 
following its review and so in November 2016 the benefits guarantee was removed. Sun Life 
says it then used its discretion to reinstate the guarantee when she made her claim in 
April 2017. Sun Life says it should have removed the guarantee when the claim ended in 
February 2018 but it failed to do this. Sun Life says that if it had acted properly, Miss Js 
policy would have lapsed in October 2018 when her investment units ran out. As it was, the 
policy continued to run until July 2019 when Sun Life realised its error, removed the 
guarantee and lapsed the policy.
Sun Life refunded the premium paid in July 2019 but doesnt believe it should refund more 
than this because it believes Miss J still had the benefit of cover after October 2018 because 
it would have honoured an eligible claim even though there was no value remaining in 
Miss Js investment units.
I cannot know for sure what would have happened if Miss J had made an eligible claim after 
October 2018. Sun Life says the benefits guarantee was still in place but as far as I can tell 
there was no formal notification to Miss J to make her aware of when the guarantee was 
being withdrawn or reinstated. It simply seems to be an internal decision which is made by 
Sun Life when necessary.
It is quite possible that if Miss J had needed to make a claim after October 2018, Sun Life 
would have applied the benefits guarantee and paid the claim. It is also possible that it would 
have decided that the benefits guarantee had ended when her earlier claim had ended. On 
that basis, instead of paying her claim, it would have perhaps decided instead to lapse her 
policy retrospectively from the date it should have lapsed and refund her premiums from that 
date (which is the remedy proposed by the investigator).
Sun Life says if it wouldnt have paid the claim, Miss J would have complained to us and we 
would have made it pay the claim. Again, this may have been the outcome but I cannot be 
sure.
The fact is that under the strict terms of the policy, Miss J was no longer under cover once 
her investment units had run out in October 2018. And while Sun Life says it would 
nonetheless have provided her with cover, there is no guarantee that it would have done so. 
This being the case, I think the fair outcome is that Sun Life should refund Miss J the 
premiums she paid from October 2018, plus interest.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to refund Miss J the 
premiums she paid from October 2018. I further require Sun Life to add interest to this 
refund at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date each premium was paid to 
the date of settlement.*     
* If Sun Life considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss J how much its taken off. It should also give Miss J a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021. David Poley
Ombudsman