DRN-3086013
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Coventry Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy with a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs H bought a PPI policy when she took out a mortgage with Coventry Building Society in 
2004. The policy would have covered her mortgage payments for up to 12 months at a time 
if Mrs H couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment.
Mrs Hs complaint is that she wasnt made aware that if she was off work sick as a result of 
her pre-existing medical conditions it wouldnt be covered by the insurance. She explains 
that she worked for Coventry Building Society on PPI complaints and knows that complaints 
like hers should be upheld. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out on our website our general approach to complaints about PPI and Ive taken 
that into account when deciding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Although Mrs Hs complaint is specifically about the information she was given when she 
bought the policy, I have looked at the whole sale to see if there is any reason to uphold her 
complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs H doesnt suggest the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. She says that 
the mortgage application form wording intimated that it was needed, either with the Society 
or elsewhere. 
Ive looked at a copy of Mrs Hs mortgage application form. It points out that a mortgage is a 
major commitment and life is full of uncertainties. It says that for many people, keeping up 
mortgage payments if they were unexpectedly unable to work, would prove difficult. It 
encourages the customer to look at the Summary of Cover to be sure whether the PPI would 
meet their requirements. It provides the customer with a choice about buying the policy. Mrs 
H ticked to say she wanted it.
I dont think this is unfair. The document points out the perils of not having PPI, but it falls far 
short of saying that the cover is compulsory. And Mrs H hasnt suggested that anyone else 
told her something different.
Mrs H says that staff members were incentivised to buy supplementary products, such as 
PPI and building insurance, when they were taking out mortgages with Coventry Building 
Society. Mrs H says that this was done by offering reduced rates and that it was frowned 
upon if staff members didnt do so. Mrs H says she was pressured to do this.
I dont know whether this is the case, but I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mrs H was 
told she had to have the PPI when she didnt have to have it or that she was personally put 
under any unfair pressure to do so.
So, on balance, I think Mrs H agreed to buy the PPI knowing she had a choice about it.
Mrs H says that Coventry Building Society recommended the policy to her, so it had a duty 
to make sure the policy was suitable for her. Coventry Building Society says that it worked 
on an execution only basis and therefore only provided information about the policy.
Mrs H acknowledges that there was no attempt by Coventry Building Society to work out 
whether the policy was suitable for her. It didnt create a statement of demands and needs 
for her or conduct a fact find. The mortgage application form doesnt indicate that Mrs H was 
given a personal recommendation and the PPI application form did not ask any personal 
questions which might suggest a recommendation would have been made, such as whether 
Mrs H was in good health or had alternative cover. So, on balance, I think its likely that 
Coventry Building Society didnt give Mrs H a personal recommendation. 
This means that Coventry Building Society only had to make sure Mrs H had all the 
information she needed to make her own decision about buying the PPI.
Its not clear whether that happened. Coventry Building Society say that as part of her role 
Mrs H would have been trained in the sale of PPI and so she would have been very aware of 
all the information she needed to decide whether the policy was right for her.  Mrs H is keen 
for her complaint to be treated fairly and to be considered on the basis that she was a 
customer, not as an employee. 
I think Mrs Hs stance is correct. There shouldnt be a lesser burden on the business to 
ensure a person who is buying PPI is aware of all the information they need, even if the 
business thinks that person ought to know as a part of their job. I do not accept Coventry 
Building Societys stance that, by default, Mrs H would have had all the relevant information 
available to her. It should have checked that she had all the relevant information available to 
her, and I havent seen evidence to satisfy me that that happened. 
But that doesnt mean that Mrs Hs complaint should automatically be upheld. I need to 
decide whether, if Mrs H had all the relevant information available to her, she would still have 
bought the policy. I have concluded that she would have bought the policy. 
Mrs H was eligible for the policy. She says that she had only 10 days full sick pay from her 
employer and she didnt have any other means to meet her mortgage repayments if she 
wasnt working. Mrs H has explained that she had taken on a large mortgage as a single 
parent and so it seems that ensuring the mortgage could be paid if she couldnt work would 
have been important to her. She wasnt affected by any restriction on the policy due to her 
employment status. The policy appears to have been affordable for Mrs H. The premiums 
were paid monthly and could have been cancelled at any time.
Mrs Hs most forceful point is that the policy wasnt suitable for her because she had two 
pre-existing medical conditions which she says would have meant if she was off work 
because of those conditions the policy wouldnt have paid out.
I think the policy wording is ambiguous on this point, but even if I accept that both of Mrs Hs 
conditions would be permanently excluded from cover I still think she would have thought the policy offered her a useful benefit.
One of Mrs Hs conditions in itself was unlikely to lead to significant time off work, even 
though some consequences of it, if it went untreated, might have done. Mrs H had been 
diagnosed with the condition 16 years before the sale and had not taken any time off work 
as a result of it. It seems to have been well managed. 
Mrs H also had another condition which was diagnosed over 20 years before the sale. Shed 
had surgery to eliminate the condition, which it seems was successful. Mrs H argues that 
there are some potential complications from such surgery, which is true. But these 
complications are most likely experienced shortly after surgery and, in any case, the policy 
didnt exclude complications from a previous surgery. I dont think its likely that Coventry 
Building Society (or its underwriters for the policy) would have excluded such a claim more 
than 20 years after the surgery took place.
So even if Mrs H wasnt given all the information about the limitations on claims for existing 
medical conditions, I dont think shed have acted differently and not bought the policy had 
she been given the correct information. 
Mrs H says that when she was deciding complaints about PPI for Coventry Building Society 
that all complaints where the customer had an existing medical condition were upheld, so 
she doesnt understand why her complaint wasnt upheld on this basis too. 
I dont know what Coventry Building Societys internal policies were about the handling of 
such complaints, but I need to make my decision applying the rules I have to follow. And in 
doing that I have concluded that while there may have been a failing on the part of Coventry 
Building Society to provide all the information Mrs H needed to make an informed decision, 
this didnt mean that Mrs H wouldnt have bought the policy if shed had all the information 
she required. So I dont think Mrs H lost out as a result of anything Coventry Building Society 
did wrong.
Ive also looked at whether Coventry Building Society should refund any money in relation to 
undisclosed commission and profit share.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But Coventry Building Society has confirmed that as Mrs H was a member of staff no 
commission or profit share was taken from the sale and it doesnt need to refund anything 
Mrs H paid for the PPI. I am satisfied that Coventry Building Society has applied the rules it 
must follow in relation to this correctly. So I dont think Coventry Building Society need to do 
anything further in Mrs Hs case.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint, so it follows that Coventry Building Society doesnt 
have to do anything.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman