DRN-3290389
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Trusttwo (Trusttwo) were 
irresponsible in making two loans to him as they were unaffordable.
What happened
In mid-2019, Mr S applied to Trusttwo for a loan of £1,000 over 24 months.  The loan was 
approved, with Mr S agreeing to make monthly repayments of £56.70.
In early 2020, Mr S took a second loan from Trusttwo of £2,000 over 36 months, to 
consolidate his borrowing.  Under the terms of this loan, he had to make monthly payments 
of £97.46.
In late 2021, Mr S complained to Trusttwo that the loans were unaffordable and Trusttwo 
would have come to this conclusion if theyd made proper checks before lending.  He said 
Trusttwo had failed to get evidence of his income and outgoings.  And theyd not taken into 
consideration that he had a county court judgment (CCJ) against his name.  He asked 
Trusttwo to waive the interest on the loan, so he only had to repay the amount hed 
borrowed.
Trusttwo considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it.  They said theyd made checks on 
Mr Ss income and reviewed his credit file and had noted the CCJ  but that was being paid 
off and Mr S had explained how that had arisen.  Further, Trusttwo had taken into account 
the amount Mr S paid for rent.  And theyd used data from the Office for National Statistics 
(ONS) to obtain a figure for living expenses.
On both occasions, Trusttwo said these calculations showed Mr S had enough of his income 
left over to make the payments for the loan.  So they didnt agree it was unaffordable.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Trusttwos response and brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Trusttwo didnt need to do anything differently to 
resolve it.  She explained the rules relating to lending dont set out specific checks lenders 
have to complete.  But the checks they make should be reasonable and proportionate.
The investigator did think the income Mr S declared at the time the first loan was made 
(£800) was low.  But, when she reviewed his bank statements, she saw that the wages he 
was receiving were significantly higher than this, at around £300 per week (£1,200 per 
month).  So she didnt think that, even if Trusttwo had reviewed the statements, it would 
have changed their decision to lend.
In response to the investigators view, Mr S said that his job wasnt permanent, and he was 
employed through an agency.  So he said it was irresponsible of Trusttwo to lend to him.
Because Mr S didnt agree with our investigator, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from what Ive read that Mr S raised his complaint when, unfortunately, hed lost his 
job and was in receipt of benefits.  I understand thats likely to mean he would have 
struggled to meet loan repayments.  And Id expect that, if he contacted Trusttwo to make 
them aware of this, theyd consider what steps they could take to assist him.
But Mr S hasnt suggested this he did this.  Rather hes said the lending was unaffordable.  
In deciding whether thats the case, I have to consider what happened at the time the loan 
was made  not the circumstances that have arisen since.
Like our investigator, Ive looked at the checks Trusttwo made when they loaned the money 
to Mr S.  I can see they included details of his income, outgoings, payments relating to his 
CCJ and an assessment of how much disposable income he would have after taking the 
loan repayments into account.  In relation to the first loan (based on an income of £800) they 
calculated Mr S would have a remaining amount of just under £250.  And in the second the 
remaining amount was £338.  I think that was reasonable.
I know Mr S feels Trusttwo shouldnt have lent because his job wasnt permanent.  But, as 
our investigator mentioned, there are no fixed checks a lender has to do.  Nor are any 
circumstances set down in which lending should never be made.
Ive thought about this.  Mr Ss bank statements show an income, sufficient to meet the loan 
repayments.  That income was regular.  I dont think its reasonable to say Trusttwo should 
have disregarded that just because Mr S was employed on an agency basis.
So  while I appreciate Mr Ss position has changed since he took out the loans  I dont 
think its fair for me to say they were never affordable.  And, while Id expect them to deal 
with Mr S sympathetically if he contacts them about the difficulties hes now in, I dont think 
Trusttwo need to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited, trading as Trusttwo.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman