DRN-3863210
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about charges applied when her personal contract plan (PCP) agreement 
with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) ended.
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs Y took out a PCP agreement for a new car. The agreement was expected 
to last for four years. But after shed taken the car back to the dealer several times to try to 
resolve various issues, MBFS gave Mrs Y the option to reject it. She handed the car back to 
the dealer on 13 August 2021.
MBFS agents collected the car from the dealer. A full inspection was carried out on 16 
November 2021. Three days later MBFS sent Mrs Y an invoice for £1,954.69, relating to 
damage that didnt meet their vehicle return standards.
Mrs Y disputed these charges. On 13 January 2022 MBFS issued a final letter of response 
to her complaint, agreeing to remove one charge. But they said the other charges remained 
payable, totalling £1,744.00. 
Mrs Y complained to MBFS again. She offered to pay £429 for damage to the front and rear 
bumper. But she disputed liability for any other damage that may have happened after shed 
handed the car back to the dealer on 13 August 2021.  
On 17 March 2022 MBFS sent Mrs Y a revised invoice for £1,274. This was broken down as 
follows:
Damage Value
Quarter panel (left side rear) non-professional repair £195.00
B post (left side) dented £70.00
Bumper (front) scratched £210.00
Tailgate dented £260.00
Wheel (right side rear) spoke damaged £110.00
Bumper (front) centre chrome moulding excessive damage £169.00
Bumper (rear) dented £260.00
Still unhappy with these charges, Mrs Y brought her complaint to us. Our investigator asked 
MBFS for details of the repairs carried out to the car. MBFS agreed to waive the charges for 
non-professional repairs.
Our investigator didnt think he could reasonably say when the rest of the damage had 
happened, due to the car being left at the dealers premises for almost three months before 
MBFS collected it. For this reason, he thought MBFS should remove all disputed charges 
from the account. 
The investigator reviewed the remaining two charges by reference to MBFS vehicle return 
standards and industry guidelines  the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations 
(BVRLA) Fair Wear and Tear Guide. He was satisfied that the charges for damage to the 
front and rear bumpers had been applied fairly. 
The investigator noted Mrs Y had to go to considerable lengths to get this complaint 
resolved. He felt this had caused her a significant amount of stress due to the amount of 
money involved.  He said MBFS should pay Mrs Y £50 compensation for this. 
Mrs Y accepted our investigators proposed resolution of her complaint, saying she was 
happy to pay the remaining charges. MBFS didnt respond, so the case has come to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Y is complaining about a personal contract plan (PCP), which is essentially a hire 
purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated 
activity, so Im satisfied that I can consider this complaint.
MBFS have provided a copy of the agreement Mrs Y signed on 18 April 2019, which Ive 
read carefully. Ive seen that it includes a section headed Vehicle Return Standards, which 
sets out the standard Mercedes expect the vehicle to be in when its returned at the end of 
the agreement period. It states:
When it is time to return your vehicle whether that is at the end of the period of hire or 
earlier (when requested to do so), you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle 
Return Standards.
Ive considered whether the evidence shows Mrs Y failed to comply with this requirement. 
Ive seen a copy of the report of the inspection of the car, dated 16 November 2021. Ive 
reviewed this in detail. Ive focussed on the charges listed in MBFS most recent invoice to 
Mrs Y, dated 17 March 2022. 
1. Non-professional repair to quarter panel (left hand rear)
Mrs Y disputes this charge. Shes told us that the car had to go back to the garage 
multiple times for diagnostics and repair work due to the problems she experienced with 
it. She says all servicing and repairs were carried out by the dealer. 
I havent seen any evidence showing what repairs were carried out during the agreement 
period. Ive seen evidence showing MBFS have now agreed to remove the charges for 
non-professional repairs. I think thats fair.
2. Dented B-post, scratched front bumper, dented tailgate, wheel spoke damage
Mrs Y says these areas of damage didnt happen while she had the car. She believes it 
must have happened after she returned the car to the dealer. The date Mrs Y returned the car to the dealer isnt disputed. Ive seen a copy of an email 
the dealer sent to MBFS on 13 August 2021, confirming the car was on site and asking 
MBFS to arrange collection. But Ive seen no evidence showing the condition the car was 
in at that time. 
The earliest report Ive seen as to the cars condition is dated 9 November 2021. This 
inspection is described as a doorstep appraisal. It includes a video clip showing the car 
parked amongst other vehicles, outside commercial premises. 
Ive seen no evidence as to where the car was stored during the 12-week period between 
13 August 2021 and 9 November 2021. MBFS have told us that the car was collected on 
11 October 2021. But having thought about this, I think it most likely that the doorstep 
appraisal report and video clip were made when the car was inspected and collected from 
the dealers premises. So, I think it most likely that the car remained at the dealers 
premises until 9 November 2021. 
I do think these disputed areas of damage could have happened during that 12-week 
period. In the absence of evidence showing this damage was present when Mrs Y 
returned the car, I dont think its fair for MBFS to charge her for it. It follows that I think 
MBFS should remove the charges for the dented B-post, scratched front bumper, dented 
tailgate, and wheel spoke damage.
3. Other damage
Mrs Y accepts there was some damage to the front and rear bumpers when she returned 
the car. For completeness, Ive considered whether it was fair for MBFS to charge her for 
this.
Ive reviewed the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement. Ive also looked at 
the fair wear and tear guidelines published by the BVRLA. I consider these guidelines to 
represent good practice across the industry, giving descriptions of what should be 
accepted as fair wear and tear when a vehicle is returned. 
(i) Front bumper centre chrome moulding
MBFS vehicle returns standards say: distorted, gouged or split bumpers and 
mouldings that require replacement, plastic welding or painting are not acceptable.
The BVRLA guidelines say: scuffs and scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable 
provided the moulding or trim is not broken, cracked or deformed.
Ive seen a photo of the damage to the chrome moulding, showing a ruler next to 
the damaged area. I can clearly see a scuffed area which exceeds 25mm in length, 
and that the moulding is also deformed. 
Im satisfied that this falls outside MBFS vehicle return standards and BVRLA 
guidelines for fair wear and tear. So, I consider it fair for MBFS to charge Mrs Y for 
this.
(ii) Rear bumper
MBFS vehicle returns standards say: Dented bumpers and/or any dents 
penetrating through to the base material where painted are not acceptable. The BVRLA guidelines say: Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable 
provided the paint surface is not broken.
Ive seen a photo of the dent to the rear bumper, showing a ruler next to the 
damaged area. I cant see whether the dent penetrates through to the base metal, 
but I can clearly see it exceeds 15mm in diameter. Im satisfied that this falls outside 
the BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear, so I consider it fair for MBFS to charge 
Mrs Y for this. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I consider the following charges to have been fairly applied:
Bumper (front) centre chrome moulding excessive damage £169
Bumper (rear) dented                                                                     £260
But Im not persuaded that it was fair to charge Mrs Y for the following:
Quarter panel (left side rear) non-professional repair             £195
B post (left side) dented                                                         £70
Bumper (front) scratched                                                            £210
Tailgate dented                                                                        £260
Wheel (right side rear) spoke damaged                                 £110
So, I think Mercedes should remove these charges from their invoice. 
I think Mrs Y has spent a significant amount of time trying to resolve this dispute. I can see 
thats been distressing for her, due to the amount of money MBFS claimed she owed. I think 
MBFS should pay Mrs Y £50 compensation for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
1. Remove all charges from their invoice to Mrs Y, except:
Bumper (front) centre chrome moulding excessive damage £169
Bumper (rear) dented                                                   £260.
2. Pay Mrs Y £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman