DRN-3645784
The complaint
Miss A complains St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) provided unsuitable 
advice and poor service. 
She complains that SJP recommended she invest partly in a money fund in case investment 
markets fell in future and that SJP then failed to advise her to move from this into investment 
markets at a suitable time. 
She seeks redress for lost investment return, a refund of fees she paid for services she says 
werent provided to the level agreed, and redress for the stress and inconvenience she says 
all this caused her.
What happened
Miss A invested alongside her partner who received the same advice and she and her 
partner had interactions with SJP on behalf of them both. So when referring below to things 
said or done by Miss A, I include things said or done by her partner on her behalf. 
In March 2020 Miss A approached SJP because the stock market had fallen to what she 
says she saw as an unusually low level and she wanted to invest. An advice meeting with 
SJP took place online on 25 March. As a result Miss A made two payments of around 
£21,000 to use her £20,000 ISA allowances for the 2019/20 and 2020/2021 tax years 
(around £1000 in charges being deducted each time). The first payment was invested on 
3 April with 50% in a money fund and the second on 20 April with 40% in the money fund. A 
31 March SJP advice report covered the first payment and a 7 April advice letter covered the 
second payment.
SJP says its recommendation of the money fund was in response to concerns Miss A had 
about investing in the stock market at the time. Miss A disagrees and says keeping money 
out of the market in the money fund was SJPs idea. She says SJP suggested she use the 
money fund - which invested in cash and cash-like instruments rather than in shares - so 
that she might benefit if the stock market fell in future. 
Miss A says she understood SJP would advise her on when to move into the market and she 
expected this to happen relatively quickly. But this still hadnt happened a year and a half 
later. She says she didnt mean to keep her money in cash for that long because if she had 
she wouldve just kept it in a bank account. She says she didnt think it would be left to her to 
make contact at the right time and if she had she wouldve used a cheaper provider. She 
says she paid SJPs fees and put money into the ISA in order to invest in the market. But 
she says there was little contact from SJP compared to what she had expected.
SJPs 31 March 2020 advice report said Miss A was very keen to take advantage of the 
markets current position. It assessed her agreed investment risk profile as Medium Risk. 
It said this meant: You want your capital to keep pace with inflation and are investing for at 
least five years. You want the potential to achieve better long-term returns and are 
comfortable with most of your capital being invested in equities and property, some of it 
overseas. You realise there may be significant falls in the value of your investments.
The report said the money fund is not consistent with your attitude to risk for this plan as it is 
below your attitude to risk. But it said the fund was recommended because the markets are 
so unstable at present. It said the fund aimed to preserve capital and maintain liquidity and 
that Miss A also wished to benefit from pound cost averaging and to avoid the risk of a post-
investment market shock having a marked adverse impact on the value of your investment. 
The report had also said: You would like the benefit of my guidance going forward, and you 
strongly believe that active management of your funds will help to achieve your long-term 
financial goals. You feel the St Jamess Place Investment Management Approach and 
regular face to face reviews will help you understand your investment and keep track of its 
performance. It also said: You will assess the market on a regular basis and contact me to 
arrange the transferring of funds. 
The 7 April 2020 advice letter referred to the 31 March report and gave the same reason for 
using the money fund. It also said, of the fund selection as a whole: I recommend this fund 
selection because it provides you with a level of equity exposure which we agreed was 
desirable and commensurate with your risk outlook and investment time horizon whilst 
spreading investment under the regular monitoring of managers by the St Jamess Place 
Investment Committee.
The letter also said: You think equities will bring the greatest opportunity for growth over 
time but note that they tend to bring the greatest volatility too. You accept this in order to try 
and maximise your growth potential. Like the March report it also said: You will assess the 
market on a regular basis and contact me to arrange the transferring of funds.
The letter also said: As part of my ongoing service, I will continue to conduct annual face to 
face reviews and be available to meet if your circumstances change during the year. I will 
also be available to speak on the telephone between review meetings to discuss any 
financial matters important to you if your needs change. During our review meetings, I will 
fully review your financial goals and adapt to any changes and if applicable review and 
rebalance your investment portfolio and fund choices. I can also send you regular financial 
communications tailored to you and your interests.
There was an automatic transfer facility which if used wouldve been used to automatically 
move money at regular intervals from the money fund into the other, riskier, funds Miss As 
ISA held. SJP says this facility wasnt used because Miss A wanted to control the timing of 
such moves. Miss A says the facility wasnt used because she expected all the money to go 
into riskier funds within a short time, so she didnt need to drip-feed it in. SJPs 7 April 2020 
letter, referring to the selection of the money fund, said: this is intended to be a short term 
plan only intending to protect your funds being moved into new investment funds over the 
next few months, aiming to avoid volatility should the markets become even more unstable.
Miss A says the contact with SJP over the months that followed had to be initiated by her 
rather than being set up by SJP. There were calls between her and SJP on 25 August 2020 
and 29 October. SJP has no record of what was said. Miss A says she contacted SJP about 
moving from the money fund. She has said the calls were made at times she thought might 
be good times to invest in markets  just as her decision to start the ISA had been prompted 
by the same idea. She says SJP talked her out of moving into the market during the calls  
just like she says SJP had talked her out of investing fully in the market at the start. 
SJP says Miss A made her own decision not to invest in October 2020 due to the potential 
for a second pandemic lockdown and that generally more wasnt moved into the stock 
market because Miss A wasnt sure about doing this when it was discussed at those times. 
SJP also claims it suggested Miss A use a fixed interest fund instead of the money fund but 
she rejected this. Miss A maintains that SJP told her it wasnt the right time to move into the stock market in October 2020. 
Miss A says she messaged SJP on 29 April 2021 to highlight her concerns as the market 
had increased since the October 2020 conversation by over 25% in 6 months. SJP has a call 
note for 5 May 2021, which it says was the annual review. This says Miss A had: made 
large gains since investing but hold 50% of their portfolio in cash pending investment. 
Wished they had moved fund across sooner but did not want to commit to any decision just 
yet. SJP says it suggested using fixed interest investments in the meantime instead of the 
money fund, but says Miss A wasnt interested in that.
In September 2021 a letter from SJP to Miss A noted that she hadnt intended to remain in 
the money fund for so long and was disappointed with missed growth but didnt wish to 
invest at that time due to pandemic concerns linked to school term starting. Miss A agrees 
the potential for the pandemic to affect the market put her off moving more into the market at 
that time but points out that the market was already 30% up by then since October 2020. 
From what she has said, she didnt want to rush into the market at that point because - 
having missed out already on a 30% increase - she didn't want to make it worse by investing 
at a time when she perceived a risk that might lead to a market fall.
The September 2021 letter said SJP left fund switching information with Miss A at that time. 
It also claimed that moving into the market had been discussed by SJP with her on several 
occasions, although it didnt detail these occasions.
Miss A says SJP didnt give a good reason for why the funds hadnt been invested when she 
met SJP face to face. SJP says this refers to a September 2021 meeting but Miss A refers to 
it as October 2021. Miss A says she felt SJP was rushing her into making a decision at that 
point. She has said she remained in the money fund until January 2022 when her new 
adviser reinvested the money. She has said the service from her new adviser in her view 
highlighted that SJP had lacked attentiveness previously.
Miss A says she is aware that stock market movements cant be predicted but she was led 
to believe that SJPs advisers, with help from fund managers, could advise customers as to 
the best plan of action, taking into account their attitude to risk.  Miss A has also told us that 
during exchanges with SJP she considers SJP asked her what she thought rather than 
offering its advice or an opinion. She has also said the situation was stressful and caused 
discomfort on account of family members having existing relationships with the same SJP 
adviser, which meant she hadnt wanted to complain.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought the money fund wasnt consistent 
with SJPs assessment of Miss As risk attitude as medium or with her desire to invest over 
the medium to long term. But our investigator thought Miss A wished to keep some money 
out of the stock market in the short term and that the advice to use of the money fund was 
suitable with that in mind. Our investigator noted this was expected to be a short-term 
measure and that SJPs advice letter said Miss A would assess the market on a regular 
basis and contact SJP to arrange the transferring of funds. But our investigator noted SJPs March 2020 report had said SJP would be conducting 
regular reviews of your circumstances to ensure the course of action taken today remains 
appropriate, as it is likely your objectives and circumstances will change over time. Our 
investigator thought SJP hadnt done enough to fulfil its agreement to provide ongoing 
advice to review your investment and ensure it remains appropriate. In particular, our 
investigator thought SJP hadnt done enough, during its exchanges with Miss A,  to remind 
her that the money fund remained inconsistent with her risk attitude - given that she had 
continued to hold money there for longer than had been planned initially. For example our 
investigator thought this shouldve been discussed in the May 2021 meeting and the meeting 
note didnt show it had been discussed and most likely it hadnt been discussed. 
Overall our investigator thought this meant SJP hadnt given Miss A the ongoing advice she 
had paid for and thought SJP should refund the ongoing advice fee it charged for its service 
in the first year (but not the fee for the initial advice). SJP has told us this ongoing advice fee 
was around £230 in the first year (the illustration for the first £21,000 investment shows a 
figure of around £100 for that investment). 
Our investigator also thought that SJPs failings, such as its failure to give Miss A the 
ongoing service it had led her to expect, had caused Miss A worry - for example about what 
to do with her holding in the money fund - and SJP should pay her £300 for this.
But our investigator also thought Miss A had likely been reluctant to invest in the stock 
market due to ongoing pandemic risks. So our investigator didnt say SJP should pay Miss A 
for the growth she wouldve had if instead of remaining in the money fund shed invested in 
the way SJP had advised her to invest the rest of the money in her ISA, which had grown 
more over the period.
SJP rejected our investigators view on the basis that its adviser wasnt permitted to make 
recommendations on the timing of fund switches and SJP would not expect its adviser to 
actively recommend fund switches in light of market volatility. SJP says its approach isnt 
based on attempting to time market entry correctly but based instead on time in the market. 
Also its advice letter had said Miss A would be responsible for timing the investments, when 
it had said to her: You will assess the market on a regular basis and contact me to arrange 
the transferring of funds. Also its advice letter had noted the fund selection with the money 
fund was intended as a short-term plan only. SJP didnt think it couldve done more to assist 
Miss A than it did and said it wouldve been clear to her that she would lose out on market 
growth if the market rose and she remained in the money fund.
SJP also says the first review meeting was due around April 2021. It says the October 2020 
call took place before then but at a time  six months on from the initial advice  when a 
move from the money fund ought to have been considered given that the fund was only 
suitable for short-term use. Overall SJP considered the service it had given Miss A was 
satisfactory and in line with its offering and its promises.
Miss A didnt provide anything new in reply to the investigators assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions are in line with those arrived at by our investigator and Ive 
arrived at them for broadly similar reasons. Ive briefly summarised these below.SJP advised Miss A to invest partly into funds with stock market risk that it said matched the 
medium risk profile it had assessed her as having  and Miss A followed that advice. It didnt 
recommend she fully invest the ISA in line with that medium risk profile. Its advice letter said 
the money fund was used for the rest of her money as a short term plan and to protect 
your funds and in case markets become even more unstable and that the money would be 
moved into new investment funds over the next few months. 
Also SJPs advice letter said Miss A wished to benefit from pound-cost averaging. This 
means that rather than moving all her ISA money into investment funds in one go, it would 
be moved at more than one point in time and be kept in the money fund in the meantime.
This approach was taken because, according to SJPs advice letter, Miss A was concerned 
to avoid the impact of a future market shock. Miss A says keeping money out of the market 
in the money fund was SJPs idea (and it was certainly SJPs recommendation) and she 
approached SJP to invest and take advantage of market falls that had occurred (as noted 
also in SJPs advice documents). 
Ive thought about all this carefully. It was SJPs role, as adviser, to discuss risks as part of 
the advice process, even if Miss A wasnt very concerned about downside market risk. So it 
was legitimate for SJP to bear in mind in its advice and discussions with Miss A that markets 
rise and fall and that recent market falls might reverse but might also continue. 
SJPs advice to use the money fund with a view to moving into the market in the near future, 
wasnt in my view inconsistent with Miss As recorded desire to take advantage of the recent 
market falls. I bear in mind that money kept secure in the money fund would be available to 
take advantage of lower market prices if these arose in future due to further market falls. 
Also Im satisfied Miss A understood the nature of the money fund and knew money there 
was protected if stock markets fell, as they had over previous weeks, but wouldnt benefit 
from a stock market recovery. SJP made clear the money fund was not a medium risk but a 
low risk fund. Whether to avoid the risk of loss in the short term or to try to better her return 
in the long term, it is apparent that in accepting SJPs advice Miss A was open to the idea of 
waiting to see if there was a better moment to invest some of her money. Im satisfied the 
approach taken reflected her view of markets and her willingness to take risk at the time. 
In saying all this I dont overlook that SJP says its approach is based on time in the market 
not on trying to time the market and it says it wouldnt advise fund switches in light of market 
volatility. But it is apparent that SJP in this case advised the use of a money fund in the short 
term due to market volatility it noted existed at the time. Also, just as its clear the money in 
the money fund was expected to be moved into investment markets within months, its clear 
that whether the time was right for this was to be judged based on future market conditions 
and not on a pre-planned investment date or dates. No plans for particular investment dates 
were made and SJP didnt set up a regular investment facility to feed money into the market. 
Instead SJPs advice documents said Miss A would assess the market on a regular basis. 
Miss A says she understood SJP would advise her on when to move into the market. As 
noted above, SJPs advice documents said it would be for Miss A to monitor the market with 
a view to contacting SJP about moving her funds. From what Ive seen I dont think SJP said 
it would monitor markets with a view to letting Miss A know when a good time to invest 
arrived. SJPs advice documents promised to set up an annual review but didnt promise to 
arrange other meetings. Also, as for identifying a good time to invest, SJP wasnt in a 
position to know how market prices might change in future. Ultimately it was for Miss A to 
decide whether or when she wished to invest in markets. That said, I agree with our investigator that, having recommended the money fund on the 
basis that money there would be moved to new funds over the next few months, SJP ought 
to have done more to follow up on the situation. I bear in mind here that Miss A did not make 
contact in the manner anticipated and continued with her money fund holding for longer than 
had been planned. More than four months passed before the August 2020 call for example. 
It was plainly foreseeable as a lay person seeking SJPs advice that Miss A might fail to 
identify a suitable investment point as planned and that the plan SJP left Miss A with might 
not work as intended. Also I bear in mind that the money fund SJP had advised Miss A to 
use was, according to SJP, a fund designed for short term use only. So the position would 
seem to require review sooner than the usual annual review that SJP would set up. 
Miss A says that when she did speak to SJP it dissuaded her from moving into the markets. I 
dont doubt when Miss A contacted SJP it was to discuss moving from the money fund. The 
fact money wasnt invested shows that SJP didnt recommend that she move her money. 
With the benefit of hindsight it can be seen that advice to move sooner would have produced 
a better result in October 2020 at least. But I cant fault SJP for not pinpointing when markets 
might turn or for not being able to accurately predict whether a market recovery would 
continue or reverse. Also Ive no evidence that SJP gave Miss A misleading or inaccurate 
information during those calls. 
I note in passing that if SJP did advise Miss A during those calls to wait like she says, then 
SJP did provide her guidance of the kind she says she was seeking, although with hindsight 
it wouldve been better to invest sooner. That said, SJP maintains that it didnt give guidance 
or advice like this and says Miss A made her own decision not to move from the money fund 
each time. Whether advice was given or not it was for Miss A to decide whether or when to 
move from the money fund and SJP couldnt know what the right answer was from a market 
timing standpoint or make that decision for her. Ultimately it seems to me Miss A decided not 
to move from the money fund and Im satisfied she was aware of the implications of that 
decision on an ongoing basis and each time she made it.
Overall I agree with our investigator that the recommendations SJP gave at the outset were 
suitable but there were shortcomings in the level of service it gave afterwards given that the 
advice hadnt resolved the situation of part of Miss As ISA investment for anything other 
than the very short term. In reaching my view I also do give some weight to what Miss A has 
said about her expectations. She accepts stock markets cant be predicted but she believed 
SJP would give her some sort of guidance in this area. SJP says it wouldnt even attempt 
this. It does seem that SJP failed to convey to Miss A the limitations to or extent of the 
assistance it was likely to give to her after she accepted its advice to use the money fund. In 
my view that was a failing and will have contributed to Miss As disappointment.
That said, like our investigator and based on the interactions that did take place, Im not 
persuaded that more frequent or pro-active interactions by SJP would have led to a different 
or more favourable investment outcome. I dont think SJP was wrong if it did point out that 
markets could fall further, and it wasnt able to point out when a market recovery was about 
to take place. But I do think SJP not being as proactive as I think it ought to have been is 
likely to have contributed to the stress Miss A has said arose from this situation.
In conclusion I share our investigators view that SJP didnt give Miss A the ongoing service 
that it ought to have given her. To compensate her for this I think it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances here for SJP to refund the ongoing advice fee it charged 
for the first year. I also think SJP should pay Miss A £300 for the disappointment which I find 
arose from SJPs shortcomings. Putting things right
To put things right St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should refund to Miss A the 
first years charges for ongoing advice and pay her £300 for distress and inconvenience 
caused to her by the failings Ive identified above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold Miss As complaint. 
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman