DRN-4309693
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund over £35,000 he lost to a 
cryptocurrency investment scam beginning in February 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr D authorised the disputed payments he made to his Binance 
wallet using his HSBC debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to 
the scammers from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr D from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr D has lost over £35,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one large or out of character transaction. It was 
spread over 11 separate smaller increments over the course of almost two months 
which, in my judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character 
when compared with Mr Ds spending history.
I appreciate there were occasions where Mr D made two payments to Binance on the 
same day, such as the disputed transactions made on 9 February 2022. But having 
reviewed Mr Ds statements and payment history, I dont think this wouldve appeared 
unusual either. I can see in August 2021, for example, that Mr D had previously made 
several payments from his account, often on the same day, that were larger than the 
transactions he is now disputing as part of the scam. 
As a result, Im not persuaded the payments he made to Binance ought to have been 
regarded as out of character or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim 
to a scam, as the transactions would not have represented a significant deviation from 
the sort of payments Mr D had made in the past. 
So, having considered the payments Mr D made to Binance, Im not persuaded there 
was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered HSBCs fraud monitoring systems, 
or that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. 
I also appreciate that Mr D is also unhappy that HSBC did not raise a chargeback 
dispute for all of the transactions he reported. However, given Mr D received the goods 
he had paid for using his debit card (i.e. the cryptocurrency), any such claim wouldve 
had little prospect of success. I acknowledge he was successfully able to recover the 
money on one of the transactions, although it is not clear why. But ultimately, I dont think 
HSBC has acted unreasonably here by failing to pursue claims for all the disputed 
payments given the limited prospects of them all succeeding, so Im not persuaded this 
warrants an award compensation in these circumstances.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr D, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman