DRN-3148173
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about a buy-to-let equity release mortgage application he made to 
Stonehaven UK Ltd (trading as Canada Life). He is unhappy that Stonehaven withdrew its 
offer to lend on the basis of the amount of ground rent payable under the lease of his 
property. He believes that Stonehaven knew this information from the outset and so its 
withdrawal of the mortgage offer wasnt made for a valid reason.
What happened
Mr W has informed us that in January 2020 he was living and working abroad for a period. 
His property had been rented out for six months while he was away. He decided that when 
he was due to return that he wanted to downsize and move to sheltered accommodation. In 
order to facilitate this plan, he wanted to take out a mortgage on his property and use the 
released equity to buy a sheltered flat in his hometown. 
Mr W sought assistance with these arrangements from an independent mortgage broker. 
The broker recommended a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with Stonehaven. The mortgage 
worked in the same way as a traditional lifetime mortgage, in that Mr W wouldnt need to 
make any payments and the interest that accrued would roll-up into the mortgage debt. An 
application was made in July 2020. 
At the end of July 2020 a valuation was completed on Mr Ws property. It valued the property 
at £185,000 and recorded that there were two tenants in the property at that time. Where 
details of the amount of ground rent and service charges would have been documented in 
the valuation, there were no details included. 
On 6 August 2020 the mortgage offer and associated documentation and instructions were 
sent to Mr Ws solicitor. The offer was valid until 28 October 2020. The covering letter stated:
Please Note: Completion dates cannot be guaranteed and we strongly recommend 
that you or your Client do not enter into any financial commitments linked to this 
matter until we have confirmed our requirements are satisfied.
One of the enclosed documents set out Stonehavens requirements for leasehold properties. 
This stated: The terms of the lease must be CML Handbook compliant.
The offer itself included the following:
6. IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS OF OFFER
a. Car Parking Our solicitors are to confirm that the property includes an allocated car 
parking space.
b. Leasehold Prior to completion our Solicitors to confirm the lease has sufficient 
unexpired term; a nominal ground rent; adequate maintenance provisions and no 
onerous obligations.
On 10 August 2020 Stonehaven issued a copy of the offer to Mr W. He accepted the offer 
and signed the mortgage deed.
A couple of weeks later Stonehavens solicitors had obtained a copy of the lease and title for 
Mr Ws property. I would explain at this point it would usually have been Mr Ws solicitors 
responsibility to provide this document when it provided information further into the process. 
Stonehavens solicitors wrote to Mr Ws solicitors as it had some concerns about the 
description of the property linked to the title, on which it asked for clarification. It also 
highlighted that the ground rent had been £250 p.a. in 2006 and following reviews it would 
be in excess of £500 at that point, which was over the CML threshold. The solicitors said that 
this needed to be varied to a peppercorn or £1 below the threshold. 
At the beginning of October 2020 Mr Ws solicitors confirmed that the landlord wouldnt 
agree to a variation of the lease. It said that Stonehavens requirements couldnt be met. It 
was suggested an indemnity policy be arranged. Stonehavens solicitors responded and said 
it didnt think that as the ground rent was already over the Government threshold 
Stonehaven would proceed on the basis of an indemnity policy. This was because any such 
policy would be based on the ground rent exceeding the threshold, when it had already done 
so. 
Mr W complained about the mortgage offer being withdrawn. He said that everybody 
involved in the mortgage application from the 3rd July had full knowledge that it was 
leasehold with ground rent of £500. He said a copy of the lease was given to Stonehaven 
before the offer was made. 
Stonehaven responded to the complaint. It outlined what had happened and the 
correspondence that had been exchanged about the lease and title. Effectively it said that 
Mr Ws solicitors should reasonably have been aware of the issue regarding the lease from 
the point the offer was sent to it. It had then been highlighted in clear terms to the solicitor 
within a few days of the offer being sent out. In addition, it highlighted that the ground rent 
issue was not the only outstanding problem; there were problems with the title and 
associated plans that Stonehaven had asked to be rectified. Stonehaven didnt consider it 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr W didnt accept Stonehavens response and asked this service to consider his complaint. 
He said that Stonehaven had caused him to suffer losses of between £8,000 and £10,000. 
He told us that this was because the mortgage offer had caused him to empty his UK 
property, put his furniture and possessions into storage, and tell his tenants that they could 
effectively stay in the property for his lifetime. This meant he had nowhere to live in the UK, 
and he had to pay for his possessions to be transported to where he is currently living and 
then placed in storage there. He asked us to compel Stonehaven to advance the mortgage 
hed applied for. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She confirmed that she had seen 
Stonehavens lending criteria and that they reflected the issue it had raised about the ground 
rent. She also commented that she hadnt seen any evidence that Stonehaven was aware of 
this term of the lease before its solicitors had received a copy of the lease in August 2020. 
The investigator also confirmed that it was Stonehavens solicitors job to check the detail of 
the lease and title and ensure that it was suitable security for the lender. The concerns about 
the title and the lease were raised with Mr Ws solicitors a couple of weeks later and 
unfortunately, the requirement regarding the lease couldnt be resolved. She didnt think 
Stonehaven had done anything wrong in not completing on the mortgage. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators conclusions and said she was wrong about the situation 
with his property at the time the mortgage was applied for. He indicated that he regularly 
lived and worked abroad during the winter months and didnt usually rent his property out. 
He said that he didnt rent it out in 2020 either. As such, he considered the investigator had fundamentally misunderstood the circumstances surrounding his complaint. He repeated 
that all parties had access to the lease agreement at the outset of the process and that the 
ground rent was £500. He said that if the valuer didnt know that information, it was negligent 
as the amount of ground rent would affect the value of the property. He said that he believed 
that all the requested documentation had been submitted and he had signed the mortgage 
deed, but then Stonehaven retrospectively introduced a new condition on the lending. He 
didnt consider that aspect of the complaint had been addressed. 
Our investigator responded to Mr Ws further comments, but she didnt change her 
conclusions. Mr W asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W said in response to the investigators view that she had reached the wrong conclusions 
as she had misunderstood the circumstances surrounding the use of the flat he owned. He 
said that the property was not rented out in 2020 and had never been when he spent time 
abroad. However, that contradicts the information Mr W told us in the complaint for he 
completed when referring his complaint to us. He also later told us that when he received the 
mortgage offer from Stonehaven, he told his tenants that they could remain in the property. I 
also note that when the valuation was completed, the valuer noted that there were tenants in 
the property. As such, I am not persuaded our investigator misunderstood the circumstances 
of the complaint. I am also not persuaded that Mr W rented his property out on the basis of 
receipt of the mortgage offer from Stonehaven. 
Mr W told us that all the parties involved had a copy of the lease before the valuation and the 
mortgage offer was issued. I have seen no evidence that is the case and it would be very 
unusual for a lease to be made available to a lender at application stage. In addition, details 
of the charges werent included in the valuation, which would again support that the valuer 
didnt have a copy of the lease. 
That said, the offer was clear about the need for Stonehavens solicitors to ensure that the 
title and the lease were suitable security. In other words, that the offer was conditional and 
not guaranteed at that stage. It would usually be for Mr Ws solicitor to provide the 
information about the title and lease that the lender needed. However, in this case 
Stonehavens solicitors obtained a copy of the lease itself and proactively raised queries 
before Mr Ws solicitor could provide any information. 
I note that Mr W has suggested that Stonehaven had all the information it needed when the 
mortgage offer was made and he accepted it, and that Stonehaven retrospectively 
introduced a new condition later in the process. The evidence doesnt indicate that is the 
case. Rather Stonehaven has evidenced that the terms of the lease would always have been 
a problem, the offer was conditional on there being no such problems and that its solicitors 
highlighted the issue at an early stage of the legal assessment of the title and lease. It is 
unfortunate that Mr Ws landlord was not willing to co-operate, but I dont believe that 
Stonehaven acted inappropriately when it decided not to lend on Mr Ws property given the 
problem with the ground rent.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
21 December 2021. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman