DRN-2693442
The complaint
Mrs G, as a representative of the estate of Mr G, complains that Scottish Equitable Plc 
trading as Aegon (Aegon) distributed the death benefits from her late husbands pension 
unfairly. 
Mrs G has confirmed in writing that Mr Gs estate was a small estate.
What happened
Mrs Gs estranged husband had a pension plan with Aegon. He sadly died in October 2018. 
When he died, he had a signed death benefit nomination form dated 1 June 2017. 
At the time of his death, Mrs G was still legally married to Mr G although theyd separated 
some years before. Theyd had three children together who were now adults. Mrs G said that 
Mr G died without leaving a will. 
After Mr Gs death, Aegon asked the adviser dealing with Mr Gs death settlement for copies 
of the death certificate and will. They also asked for the beneficiaries form to be completed. 
They specifically requested Mrs Gs contact details but the adviser wasnt able to provide 
them.
In February 2019, after completing their investigations into Mr Gs dependants, Aegon made 
a discretionary decision to pay the benefits that took into account the death benefit 
nomination form. Neither Mrs G or her three adult children were to receive any of Mr Gs 
pension plan.
In October 2019 Mrs G complained to Aegon. In their response, they asked her to provide as 
much information as possible for them to review their decision. They noted that Mrs G wasnt 
looking for the funds to be paid to her but instead to the children she shared with Mr G. 
Aegon asked for their names and contact details. 
In November 2019 Aegon told Mrs G that theyd revisited their decision but had decided that 
it was fair and in line with their scheme rules.
Unhappy with the decision, Mrs G brought her complaint to this service. She felt that her 
adult children shouldve received some of the funds from their fathers pension plan.
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She felt that Aegon had distributed the death 
benefits fairly.
Mrs G didnt agree. She felt that Mr G wouldve wanted the pension funds to go to his family. 
So her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs G believes that Aegon didnt distribute the death benefits from her estranged husbands 
plan fairly. She feels her children shouldve received a share of his pension fund. But Aegon 
say they correctly distributed the benefits after taking all relevant factors into account.
I need to decide whether or not Aegon fairly and reasonably discharged their duties in terms 
of how they decided to distribute the death benefits owed from the pension plan. 
Mrs G feels very strongly about what happened. Whilst Ive considered everything that shes 
submitted about the background to this situation, my decision focuses on what Aegon did. 
Pension plans arent part of an individuals estate. So Aegon, as the administrator of this 
pension plan, have the responsibility or discretion of deciding who receives the death 
benefits. 
In order to do this, Aegon needed to properly investigate the position in respect of potential 
beneficiaries. But they also had to act according to the pension scheme rules. 
The rules define what a beneficiary is as follows: 
10.3 The beneficiaries are:
a) the dependants of the member
b) the grandparents of the member or the member's surviving spouse or civil partner 
and the children and remoter issue of those grandparents
c) any individuals entitled to any interest in the estate of the member whether under the 
member's will or on the member's intestacy or who would be entitled to an interest in 
such estate if the member had died intestate and the estate had been of sufficient 
amount
d) any person or persons (including trustees) who, by way of a valid request as set out 
in rule 8.2 or 8.4 (as the case may be), have been named or identified to the scheme 
administrator by the member in writing prior to the member's death for the purposes 
of receiving a lump sum or other benefit on the death of the member
e) the member's legal personal representatives, in which case the death benefit must 
be held as an addition to the member's residuary estate for all purposes.
Expanding on some parts of this definition for clarity, a beneficiary can be:
a) any individual who Aegon regard as being financially dependent or interdependent, 
on Mr G at the date of death.
d) Anyone Mr G had named or identified to Aegon before his death, for the purpose of 
receiving a lump sum death benefit.
Once their investigation was concluded, Aegon decided that there was only one beneficiary 
to Mr Gs pension fund. They said theyd seen evidence of financial dependency of that 
beneficiary. But they reviewed that decision when Mrs G asked them to consider her children 
as potential beneficiaries. 
After that review, Aegon said theyd found no evidence that Mrs G or her children were 
financially dependent on Mr G at the time of his death. So Aegon concluded that they didnt fall within the definition of beneficiary. So they didnt think their original decision had been 
incorrect. 
Mrs G provided additional information to this service through a recent phone call. Id like to 
thank her for that. Ive listened to the call in full. And I completely understand why she feels 
that Mr Gs children should have a claim on some of his death benefits.
During the call, Mrs G noted that Mr G hadnt financially supported his children when they 
were younger. But that he had provided childcare support. She felt certain that he wouldve 
wanted to help his children and grandchildren financially if he could. So she doesnt 
understand why he didnt name his children as beneficiaries. She doesnt know what 
pressure he was under to appoint his partner his sole beneficiary. 
Mrs G also said that if Mr G had thought about making a will he wouldve named his children. 
She didnt think that his partner should be left out. But she felt a fairer distribution of the 
death benefits would be to share them equally between her three children and Mr Gs 
partner. She didnt want anything for herself. But felt it would be a tragedy if her children 
didnt get anything as she felt the money was rightfully theirs.
Mrs G felt Aegon have been unfair, and not looked at things properly. She said she felt bad 
for her children and just wanted a fair division of the death benefits. She said that despite all 
of her children having good jobs, that shouldnt mean they cant benefit from their dads 
death benefits.
Im so sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but despite everything she told us I havent seen anything 
to conclude that Aegon acted unreasonably in allocating the funds as they did. From what 
Ive seen, they considered and applied the criteria under their scheme rules. So I dont think 
they acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
I acknowledge that under the circumstances, Aegons rules may seem unfair. But theyre not 
unusual. And have been set out in this way to ensure that benefits will still be paid to a 
person if they havent been named in the members will, if that person was financially 
dependent on the member. Unfortunately, in this case, Mr G didnt have a will. And his 
children werent financially dependent on him. So I dont consider it would be reasonable to 
require Aegon to share the benefits in the way that Mrs G would like.
So, whilst I sympathise with Mrs Gs position, I cant fairly and reasonably uphold her 
complaint. 
Im very sorry for Mrs Gs and her childrens loss. But I dont think that Aegon did anything 
wrong when they distributed the benefits from Mrs Gs estranged husbands pension in the 
way they did. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman