DRN-1587098
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Lloyds Bank Plc switched their bank account without their 
permission.
background
Mr and Mrs R had a current account with a provider I will refer to as Bank A. In late January 
2019 they discovered the account had been closed. It had been switched to a Lloyds 
account. They hadnt agreed to that happening. They werent aware it was going to take 
place.
The switch led to them being unable to access their money for a time. It also created a 
number of knock on problems like direct debits failing and difficulties with other payments. 
Mr and Mrs R want Lloyds to acknowledge it lied when it said she had authorised the switch. 
They want it to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience its mistake caused 
them.
In response to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint Lloyds accepted it had made a mistake. It said it 
shouldnt have asked Bank A to switch their account. It apologised for incorrectly saying Mrs 
R had authorised it. Lloyds said the cause was human error. It didnt agree to a request for 
£1,000 compensation. Instead it offered £300. Mr and Mrs R werent satisfied with that so 
they came to this service. 
Our Investigator said £300 was enough to recognise what had gone wrong. He didnt 
recommend Lloyds do anything differently or pay any extra. Mr R didnt accept it was. So the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not making Lloyds 
pay any extra compensation or do anything differently. 
I dont need to consider if Lloyds did anything wrong. It admits it did. It mistakenly used 
Mr and Mrs Rs details for a switch requested by a different customer. So I havent 
considered what actually happened in any detail. But they feel Lloyds acted fraudulently 
when it incorrectly said she had authorised the switch. Ive considered that. But it seems it 
was probably a genuine mistake  rather than something done intentionally by Lloyds. Its 
apologised for that mistake as Mr and Mrs R requested. 
Mr and Mrs R havent said they lost out financially as a result of the mistake. They havent 
reported being charged fees for unpaid direct debits, for example.
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs R have said about the distress and inconvenience 
they experienced. That includes, but isnt limited to, the following. They couldnt access their 
money for a week or more. Direct debits failed. Reinstating them fully took time and effort  with issues still occurring up to six months later. New account details had to be provided to 
other organisations. Service providers threatened to disconnect. Ive also considered Mr Rs 
age and health conditions.
Lloyds did make the initial mistake that led to all this. It certainly did result in a fair amount of 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs R. Bank As accepted some 
responsibility for what happened. Its paid them £500 compensation plus £60 to cover phone 
charges. In addition Lloyds has offered £300 compensation.
Im required to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  that includes 
the compensation Mr and Mrs R received from Bank A. When thats taken into account, plus 
the £300 offer from Lloyds, I feel they will have received enough to recognise the impact this 
mistake has had. So Im not making Lloyds to pay them any extra compensation or do 
anything differently. 
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making Lloyds Bank Plc pay any extra compensation 
or do anything differently. Its offered Mr and Mrs R £300. Thats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. So my final decision is that Lloyds should pay them £300 if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman