DRN-4390045
The complaint
Miss B complains that Santander UK Plc has treated her unfairly when she asked to switch 
the product rate on her mortgage.
What happened
Miss B arranged a new fixed rate product for her mortgage through a broker. On 7 January 
2023 Miss B accepted an offer for a new product which was due to start on 3 February 2023. 
On 9 January 2023 Santander wrote to Miss B and said if she wanted to cancel or change 
the deal accepted with it, shed need to contact her broker to confirm this at least 14 days 
before the mortgage start date. 
Between Miss Bs new mortgage rate starting and her accepting this new rate, Santander 
lowered its fixed rate products and this meant the rate Miss B had accepted was more 
expensive than the new rate. On 23 January 2023 Miss B called Santander and asked it to 
move her to the new lower fixed rate product. Santander said because she was within the 
last 14 days before the new deal was due to start, she was not able to cancel the rate 
previously accepted without incurring an early repayment fee (ERC). 
Miss B said she felt Santander should have informed her that rates were due to change and 
decrease and as an existing customer, it has treated her unfairly when this wasnt made 
clear. When she accepted the higher rate she has been financially disadvantaged over the 
next 5 years with a higher monthly repayment than she could have otherwise been making.
Our investigator looked at Miss Bs complaint and didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong when it didnt agree to move her to the newer rate within the 14-day period. And he 
didnt think it had an obligation to tell Miss B the rates were going to decrease. He said these 
can change with market conditions and it wouldnt be fair to expect Santander to know how 
the rate might change in the future. He also thought that because the re-mortgage was 
arranged by a broker, they were responsible for providing Miss B with the information she 
needed to make an informed choice  although it was unlikely theyd have been aware how 
Santanders rates might have changed in the future. 
Miss B did not agree and said she didnt think it was fair for her to be expected to check the 
interest rates daily to see if they were reducing. And because of the weekend falling when it 
did when the rates changed, it had been more difficult to do anything. Overall she felt 
Santander should have an obligation to notify her if the rate is changing. And it should allow 
her to change the rate now when it failed to do this. 
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged and Miss B asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
Miss B will be disappointed but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Santander explained to Miss B after the offer was accepted that there would come a time 
when it could not be changed. Its email on 9 January 2023 explained this and set out that 
any cancellation of the rate selected could only be done if there was at least 14 days 
remaining before the new rate was due to start.
When Miss B did not request to change her product with at least 14 days before it was due 
to start, she missed the opportunity to do so without incurring a charge.  And I dont think 
Santander has acted unfairly when it said this couldnt be done.
I appreciate the frustration Miss B will have over this but the timeframe was made clear and 
it wouldnt be fair to ask Santander to waive this. It is a process applied to all customers and 
she hasnt been treated differently when the request wasnt accepted. 
I understand part of Miss Bs complaint is focused on her belief that Santander should do 
more to let her know how its rates are changing or anticipated to change. As our investigator 
has said, the sale was not completed by Santander, but instead a broker and so the 
information at the point of sale would be its responsibility to provide. But as Miss B has said, 
she was an existing customer of Santander moving from an old rate to a new with the same 
lender, so I can see why she feels it could have done more. 
Ultimately though I dont think this is a fair expectation. Interest rates on mortgages are 
reactive to the market conditions and even when these are relatively stable, certainty on 
future changes is difficult to find. Santander processed the application for a new rate put 
forward to it by the broker based on the rates it had available at the time. Any future rates 
could not have been known or shared until these were published. And after the new rate was 
within 14 days of completing, this could not be cancelled without an ERC being applied.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against Santander 
UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman