DRN-2399891
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with fees charged on two international money transfers which Mr B believes 
HSBC Bank UK Plc are responsible for.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr B instructed two international payments to his HSBC UK Currency 
Account. The payments came from a third-party account held in Mr Bs name (the sending 
bank) and were routed through another third-party bank (the intermediary bank) by the 
sending bank.
When Mr B instructed the financial transfers, he was informed by the sending bank that no 
fees would be applied. Mr B was also of the understanding that no fees would be charged by 
HSBC UK upon receipt of the transfers.
However, when the monies were received, Mr B discovered that each transfer had in fact 
been subjected to a fee, so that the amount received into Mr Bs HSBC UK Currency 
Account was less than Mr B as expecting. Mr B wasnt happy about this and so he 
complained to HSBC UK.
HSBC UK looked into Mr Bs complaint, but because the fees had been deducted by one of 
the third-party banks before the transfers had reached them, and because they had applied 
the money received via the transfers to Mr Bs HSBC UK Currency Account without debiting 
any fees themselves, they didnt feel that they had done anything wrong. So they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with HSBC UKs response and referred the matter to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into this complaint, but they agreed with HSBCs position, and so 
they didnt uphold the complaint either. Mr B remained unhappy and so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for the same reasons.
While I understand Mr Bs frustration that fees were applied to these transfers when he was 
of the understanding that no fees would be applied, it remains the fact that these fees 
werent taken by HSBC UK, but rather by one of the other third-party banks which were 
involved in the transfers.
HSBC UK have demonstrated that the fees were taken from the transfers before the monies 
reached them and have also demonstrated that they applied the full balance of the transfers 
that they received to Mr Bs HSBC UK Currency Account. This was in line with what Mr B 
was expecting of HSBC UK, and so I cant say that HSBC UK have acted unfairly or 
inappropriately here.
Given that HSBC UK didnt apply the fees attached to these transfers, I cant fairly consider 
asking them to reimburse these fees to Mr B, and so I wont be upholding this complaint.
I note that Mr B has also questioned why the transfers were routed via an intermediary bank 
in the way that they were, and also why they werent conducted as SEPA transfers. But 
again, as the receiving bank, these arent questions that HSBC UK can answer or be fairly 
deemed as being responsible for.
I understand that this is not the response Mr B may have hoped for. However, considering all 
of the above, I hope Mr B can understand why I am unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman