DRN-2023806
The complaint
Mr H complains that the loans provided to him by Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending 
Stream were unaffordable.
What happened
Based on the information we have received Mr H was provided with nine loans by Lending 
Stream between July 2018 and August 2019.
Loan Date Repaid Amount (£)
1 27-07-2018 25-10-2018 70
2 22-09-2018 20-12-2018 50
3 31-03-2019 01-05-2019 50
4 24-04-2019 01-05-2019 50
5 26-04-2019 01-05-2019 100
6 02-06-2019 31-10-2019 250
7 09-06-2019 29-08-2019 220
8 10-07-2019 24-10-2019 340
9 23-08-2019 29-08-2019 100
Mr H says that the loans werent affordable. He says he needed to borrow to make his 
repayments resulting in him becoming trapped in a cycle of debt.
Lending Stream issued a final response letter in which it said that before the loans were 
provided it confirmed Mr Hs monthly income and gathered information about Mr Hs 
expenses. It said it checked the expenses information against independent data sources and 
checked Mr Hs financial commitments information with a credit reference agency. It said 
that based on its checks loans 1 to 8 were affordable for Mr H. It said that loan 9 was also 
affordable but given the number of loans Mr H had taken and the timeframe in which they 
were taken it upheld his complaint regarding this loan. 
Mr H sent an email to Lending Stream saying he accepted the refund and then referred his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think he had seen enough to say that loans 1 to 5 shouldnt have 
been provided. However, he thought that by loan 6, Mr Hs overall pattern of borrowing 
suggested he had become persistently reliant on short term loans. Because of this he 
recommended that Mr H be refunded the interest and charges on loans 6 to 9 and that these 
loans be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
Lending Stream said that Mr H had accepted the offer in its final response letter and paid the 
amount offered. Our investigator noted that there was nothing to show Mr H accepted the 
offer in full and final settlement. 
As a resolution hasnt been reached, this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H took out the first loan in July 2018. This was for £70 and repayable over three monthly 
instalments. Before the loan was provided information about Mr Hs income and expenses 
was gathered. Given this was the first loan with Lending Stream and having considered the 
repayment amounts compared to Mr Hs income I find the checks were proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the loan I do not find It unreasonable 
this loan was provided.
Mr H took a second loan out while the first was still outstanding. This was for £50. Having 
considered the combined repayments due for the two loans compared to Mr Hs income I 
find the checks carried out were reasonable. As the checks suggested the repayments were 
affordable I dont find I have enough evidence to say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr H repaid the first loan in October 2018 and the second in December 2018 and then didnt 
take out another loan until March 2019. He then took out three loans in close succession  
one in March and two in April. While this could suggest Mr H was experiencing difficulties, 
the loan amounts were still relatively small compared to his monthly income. The checks 
carried out suggested the loans were affordable and I do not have anything to show that had 
further checks taken place then Lending Stream would have realised these loans werent 
sustainably affordable.
Mr H repaid loans 3, 4, and 5 on 1 May and then took out a further loan on 2 June. This was 
for a larger amount. By the time of loan 6, I agree with our adjudicator that a pattern of 
borrowing had emerged which should have raised concerns about the sustainability of 
lending to Mr H and his potential reliance on short term loans. Mr H had taken out six loans 
in around 10 months and the amount borrowed in loan 6 was much higher than the previous 
loans. His previous three loans had been taken out simultaneously and while he had repaid 
these before loan 6 I think his pattern of borrowing at this time should have raised concerns.
Mr H continued to borrow from Lending Stream with loan 7 taken out a week after loan 6 and 
while loan 6 was still outstanding. This was for a further £220. Then loan 8 was taken out for 
a larger amount of £340 while the two previous loans were outstanding. Lending Stream 
upheld loan 9.
Based on the comments above, I do not find that Lending Stream should have provided 
loans 6 to 9. I note the comments about Mr H accepting Lending Streams offer but I can 
only see he accepted a refund and this wasnt clear it was in full and final settlement of his 
complaint. Therefore I find it reasonable that  this complaint is upheld in regard to loans 6 to 
9. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr H from loan 6, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I think loans 6 to 9 shouldnt have beene provided, Lending Stream should:
Refund Mr H the interest and charges he paid towards the upheld loans along with 
8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H from the date of 
payment to the date the complaint is settled. 
Remove loans 6 to 9 entirely from Mr Hs credit file. 
I understand that the above actions may have already happened in regard to loan 9.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans 6 to 9. Gain Credit LLC 
trading as Lending Stream should take the actions set out above in resolution of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman