DRN-4387729
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr G are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has 
delayed repairing damages arising from poor workmanship under a previous subsidence 
claim made on their home insurance policy.
Any reference to RSA includes reference to respective agents or representatives. For ease 
of reading, I will also refer to just Mrs C who is the lead complainant.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In 2014, Mrs Cs detached garage was affected by subsidence caused by a 
neighbours tree.  
RSA accepted the claim, and the repair was made following payment of £1,000 
excess. Mrs C also said the tree was removed at their cost. The claim was closed 
in 2016.
In 2021, Mrs C noticed the damage returning in the same area. And reported this 
to RSA.
RSA accepted the claim and after a period of monitoring it said it was in a 
position to proceed with repairs in February 2023.  A settlement offer was also 
made as Mrs C was considering if she wanted to get the repairs done by her own 
contractor. The offer was made with notification that a further £1,000 excess was 
due to be paid.
Mrs C declined the offer and disputed that an additional excess was due as the 
claim was for failed works not a new subsidence claim.  
RSA disagreed that its a continuation of the previous claim and think its a new 
episode of subsidence due to the time that has lapsed between the claims. 
Mrs C says RSA sent a contractor to view the damage prior to works 
commencing. He told her that the original works had not been carried out 
correctly and the filler that had been previously used had failed. He was of the 
opinion that partial rebuild would be required. Mrs C has said following some 
back and forth with RSA another person came and viewed the damage and 
repeated that the repair had failed. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. He recommended RSA 
proceed with the repairs urgently, or if Mrs C prefer to use her own contractor, 
RSA should accept this and pay the costs it wouldve paid for it to repair the 
damage. He said Mrs C should not pay an additional excess and recommended 
RSA pay £350 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused 
Mrs C.
Mrs C agreed. However, RSA at this point made our investigator aware it had 
already awarded £300 compensation for the delays in a final response letter 
(FRL) it issued after our service had started to investigate the complaint but 
maintained that this episode of subsidence was a separate event from the 
previous claim because of the time since the last incidence. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am intending to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute there is damage to Mrs Cs garage and there have been delays in the claim 
progressing.  RSA had already agreed to pay £300 for the delay and our Investigator not 
knowing this offer had been made had also directed RSA to pay £350 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience of the delays. Im persuaded £350 is a fair amount in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
However, there is still a dispute about whether this damage has been caused by failed 
repairs from the previous subsidence claim that started in 2014 or if it is a new episode of 
subsidence and therefore if an additional excess is required to be paid.
I have considered the information supplied by both parties. Mrs C has told us the latest 
damage is in the same place to where the previous damage was and, in the area, where the 
repairs were carried out.  She said the damage was caused by a neighbours tree which was 
removed. She has also said on two separate occasions RSAs contractors that visited the 
property to review the damage and complete the schedule of works have informed her that 
the repairs had failed and therefore they felt part of the garage would need to be partially 
rebuilt to prevent the same thing happening again. 
RSA have provided some information regarding the cause of the damage. I can see that in 
November 2021 RSA gave three possible causes for the current subsidence  consolidation 
subsidence, root induced clay shrinkage and clay shrinkage subsidence. 
In June 2022 it told Mrs C that given the monitoring results it was only able to rule out 
consolidation subsidence and it was of the opinion that the neighbours vegetation was 
influential albeit it recognised it didnt have the evidence to implicate it at that time. 
In February 2023, RSA then told Mrs C that the cause of damage was established to be 
consolidation of fill beneath the foundation. 
RSA then when responding to this complaint has said it was re-visiting the reasons why the 
claim is a new incident with its contractor however its likely to be the ongoing growth of the 
nearby vegetation, so it would be a further episode where mitigation hasnt been managed or 
has been outside the insureds control since the last claim. 
Im persuaded RSA hasnt identified the exact cause of the damage. So, it hasnt shown that 
the current problem is new and unrelated to the previous subsidence claim. Id expect to see 
evidence to support its position especially after it carried out an investigation to the damage.
Im not going to accept an assumption on the cause of damage. And therefore, Im unable to 
fairly agree its a new claim. Mrs C has already experienced delay in the claim, and she has 
specifically mentioned RSAs contractor carried out a site inspection and have said the prior 
repairs were inadequate.  I find this persuasive given RSA have not provided any reports or substantial evidence concluding the cause wasnt due to failed repairs. And it is also wanting 
to send someone to look again to see if a partial rebuild is necessary.  I am satisfied RSA 
have had plenty of opportunity to support its position, but it hasnt. RSA have a duty to 
handle claims promptly and fairly I therefore direct it to proceed with things as part of the 
original claim. So, it shouldnt charge a second excess, and this shouldnt be recorded as a 
second claim.
Putting things right
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to proceed with the claim without charging a 
second £1,000 excess and not to record this as a second claim for subsidence. 
If Mrs C and Mr G prefer to use her own contractor, RSA should accept this and pay the 
costs it wouldve paid for it to repair the damage.
Pay a total of £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the delays have 
caused Mrs C and Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman