DRN-3236561
The complaint
Mr B complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his Pockit account and havent 
released money held in the account back to him. 
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited
What happened
Mr B had a Pockit account.
  
In May 2020, Pockit blocked Mr Bs account while it carried out a review. As part of the 
review Pockit asked Mr B to provide proof of his identification, address and source of funds. 
It also asked him about a payment of £480 which had been paid into his account on 7 May 
2020 with the reference invoice.
Mr B told Pockit that the £480 was from someone hed lent money to previously who was 
now repaying him. And he provided proof of his identify and address. 
Over the following months, Mr B sent emails to Pockit to try and get access to the money in 
his account. And to try and find out what else, if anything, he needed to do to gain access to 
the money in his account. At the time Mr Bs balance was just under £700 following another 
credit of £650 which was paid into Mr Bs account on 7 May 2020. Pockit didnt respond to 
Mr Bs emails. And in September 2020 asked Mr B to provide the same information hed 
provided in May 2020. 
Mr B complained to our service. He said being without his money had made it difficult to 
provide for his family and pay his car insurance. He said hed been trying to find out what 
was happening with his account for more than a year. And that hed emailed Pockit 
numerous times trying to find out how he could access the money in his account. But hed 
been ignored by Pockit and kept in the dark about what was happening with his account, 
which hed found upsetting and frustrating. 
After initialling telling this service that it intended to release Mr Bs funds to him and 
requesting a bank statement from Mr B, Pockit decided to return the money in Mr Bs 
account back to source in late 2021. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and asked him for more information 
about the payments made into his account.  And he provided a different explanation to what 
hed given Pockit. Mr B told the investigator that hed received the payments for work that 
hed done. And as he didnt know the people very well, hed asked them to pay him using his 
Pockit account. He didnt tell the investigator that the £480 payment was a loan repayment.
The investigator also asked Pockit for evidence that it had returned the funds back to source 
and to explain why it had done so. Pockit provided a screen shot showing it had returned the 
funds to source on 7 October 2021. However, Mr B says when he contacted the people 
whod sent him the money, they both said they hadnt received any money back. So, he says 
he is still without the funds. 
The investigator concluded that Pockit were entitled to block and review Mr Bs account. And 
ask him for information about the payments made into his account.  She said Pockit hadnt 
done anything  wrong when it had decided to send the funds back to source. However, she 
said Mr B had gone to the trouble of providing his bank account details to Pockit twice in 
September and October 2021. And Pockit hasnt provided a clear explanation why it asked 
Mr B to provide this information if it had already decided it wasnt going to return any money 
to him. She said that Pockit should give Mr B information about where it had sent his money 
so he could make his own enquiries with the senders. And she thought Pockits 
communication with Mr B had been poor. So, she said Pockit should pay Mr B £100 for the 
trouble and upset this had caused him. 
Mr B said he is still without his funds. And wants to know where Pockit sent his money. 
Pockit disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Pockit has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of new and existing relationships and verify a customers identify. That sometimes 
means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry 
out their review. And ask a customer for information about payments made into an account 
and to provide identification documents.
 
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon, Im satisfied that they were complying 
with their legal and regulatory obligations when they blocked Mr Bs account and asked him 
for information about himself and how he was using his account. The terms and conditions of 
Mr Bs account also permit Pockit to block an account and Im satisfied Pockit acted in line 
with them. So, I cant say Pockit did anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Bs 
account. 
Having looked at Mr Bs account statement, the £480 was out of character. Mr B also 
accepts that the payment was quite unusual. Mr B hadnt previously received any large 
payments. I note too that Mr B has changed his explanation regarding the payment  initially 
he said hed lent someone some money and the £480 credit was repayment for the loan. 
And more recently hes said he it was payment for work hed done.  But despite being asked 
by the investigator, hes not provided any evidence to support either explanation, such as 
evidence of the work he completed or a loan agreement. And I note Mr B hasnt provided 
anything to show hes entitled to the £650 that was paid into his account either. This makes it 
very difficult for me to place much weight on what hes said. So, Im not going to direct Pockit 
to return the balance of Mr Bs account to him.
Based on the evidence I can see that Pockit sent the balance of Mr Bs account back to 
source. Pockit has provided a screen shot showing it did this in October 2021. This ensures 
the funds are sent back to the correct person. Especially, as in this case Pockit werent able 
to verify Mr Bs entitlement to the funds. I agree that this was the right action in the 
circumstances. So, I cant say Pockit has treated Mr B unfairly in doing so. However, despite 
being asked by the investigator Pockit hasnt shown exactly where the funds were sent.Mr B says hes contacted the people who sent him the money and theyve both said that 
they havent received anything  in other words Pockit hasnt sent the money in Mr Bs 
account back to them. And I know Mr B wants more information about where the money 
went, such as account details, so that he can trace the money. But if the payments were 
legitimate, and hes contacted the people who sent him the money, it suggests he already 
knows who the payee is. If they are now refusing to pay (for work etc) that feels like a civil 
dispute, as Im not going to direct them to pay him. That being said, I agree with the 
investigator, that it would be helpful if Pockit provided Mr B with more information about 
where exactly it returned the money back to in order to assist Mr B with recovering his funds. 
So it should provide him with this information.
While Pockit are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a timely manner 
and without undue delay. Pockit initially blocked Mr Bs account in May 2020.  I can see that 
Pockit asked Mr B to provide it with information in May 2020 and Mr B did so promptly. 
However, his account remained blocked with no further contact until September 2020 when 
they asked Mr B to provide the same information again. 
Over the following months, Mr B sent Pockit numerous emails to try and find out what was 
happening with his account and how he could access his funds. Pockit didnt respond to him, 
which from looking at the copies of the emails, Mr B found upsetting and frustrating. I note 
that it wasnt until October 2021 that Pockit actioned sending Mr Bs balance back to source, 
which was nearly 18 months after it had first blocked Mr Bs account.  I note too that it asked 
Mr B for copies of his bank statement twice in September and October 2021 so that it could 
return the money to him. I dont understand why it made this request, especially as it 
appears nothing had changed since May 2020. And it wasnt happy Mr B was entitled to the 
money in his account at that point. So, I can understand why Mr B is upset and disappointed  
as he believed at long last, he was going to get his hands on the money in his account.
 
Pockit also hasnt offered much in the way of an explanation for why its review of Mr Bs 
account has taken as long as it has. And why its taken until October 2021 to take any action 
in relation to the balance of Mr Bs account.  Ive looked at the timeline that has been 
provided by Pockit about what it was doing. And I cant see that Pockit did anything to move 
things forward after June 2020, until October 2021 when it decided to return Mr Bs balance 
to source. 
Ive also looked at copies of the emails Mr B sent to Pockit over a number of months. Its 
clear from reading the emails Mr B was very frustrated. I cant see that Pockit responded to 
Mr Bs emails except to ask him to submit information it had already asked him to provide. 
So, while I recognise that Pockit is entitled to carry out a review, I dont consider 
little or no contact for nearly 18 months to be reasonable or fair.
Ive also kept in mind that Mr B appears to have complied with Pockits requests for 
information relatively quickly. Based on the evidence Ive seen this doesnt appear to be an 
over complicated matter. But I can see that Mr B spent time sending a number of emails 
over many months trying to find out what was happening to his account. Mr B also told 
Pockit he needed the money in his account to support his family. But Pockit didnt provide 
Mr B with any meaningful explanations about how long things might take to complete. So, 
Im satisfied Mr B was caused trouble and upset by Pockits delays and lack of 
communication. Because of this, I think Pockit should pay Mr B £100 compensation to 
recognise the trouble and upset its poor service caused him.
In summary, Im aware that Pockit have returned Mr Bs balance to source. I agree that this 
was the right action in the circumstances. However, this wasnt done until recently. I can also 
see that Mr B has had to chase Pockit to try and find out what was happening with his account  hes sent numerous emails to try and move things forward. I think having to wait 
more than a year  to be provided with an answer has caused extra distress.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint. To put things right Wirecard Card 
Solutions Limited should:
Pay Mr B £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review and lack of communication 
Provide Mr B with details of where it sent Mr Bs account balance so that he is able to 
trace and recover the funds
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman