DRN-2919244
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the actions of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) in its 
role of administering her policy. 
What happened
Miss A took out the whole of life policy in 1994. It was a joint policy with her then husband. 
Whilst the policy is jointly owned Miss A is the one who initiated the complaint so I will just 
refer to her throughout this decision.
The policy was a reviewable one meaning it would be reviewed after the first ten years and 
then every five years thereafter to assess whether the level of the premiums was enough to 
maintain the original sum assured. Miss A also seems to have chosen to have the policy 
indexed linked which meant that in addition to the reviews the sum assured and the 
premiums of the policy would automatically increase in line with inflation every year.
Miss A appears to have complained to Aviva in 2019 when she received notification that the 
sum assured of the policy had decreased significantly. Aviva told her that this was because 
she didnt respond to the review letter that had been sent out and therefore the default option 
of reducing the sum assured had been applied in line with the policy terms and conditions.
In 2020 Miss A noticed from a bank statement that her premiums had increased and 
subsequently queried this with Aviva. As a result of these two issues Miss A became 
increasingly concerned about the handling of the policy and the accuracy of the information 
Aviva had on file for her.
Miss A has made numerous complaints point, but in my view they can be summed up as the 
following:
Aviva doesnt have the accurate details of Miss As addresses which is why she 
didnt receive the letters about the sum assured decreasing and the premiums 
increasing. She feels that Aviva are in breach of contract by not giving her advance 
notice of the increase in premiums and has also breached direct debit terms and 
conditions.
Ownership of the policy was transferred to Miss As daughter yet Aviva has recently 
confirmed Miss A is still the policy holder.
Miss A cant access her policy online and hasnt been provided with a good enough 
reason why.
The copies of the indexation letters Aviva has sent to the investigator as proof of 
them being sent in the past are not on official company letterheads and so Miss A 
believes they have been falsified and were never sent in the first place.
Miss A also raised a complaint about the mis-selling of this policy but this had been dealt 
with under a different complaint reference.
When the complaint was assessed by one of our investigators it was not upheld. As Miss A 
didnt agree with the assessment and remained adamant Aviva had failed to treat her fairly, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator that the complaint 
cant be upheld.
Deed of Assignment
Miss A says the ownership of the policy was changed by deed of assignment in 2017. The 
investigator who initially looked at this case asked Aviva for the details of this but Aviva 
confirmed it had no record of the assignment. Aviva was able to provide confirmation that the 
deed of assignment was requested by Miss A and the forms were duly sent out, but it has no 
record of receiving the forms back from her. In my view there is no reason for Aviva to have 
not affected the change in ownership, so I think its more likely than not the forms were not 
returned. This was Miss As responsibility, so I dont think Aviva had done anything wrong in 
this respect. Furthermore, Miss A has said the change of ownership happened in 2017 so if 
she was expecting the change to have taken place I see no reason why should wouldnt 
have chased this up with Aviva before now.
Address issues
Miss A appears to have lived at a number of different addresses over the years. It is the 
policyholders responsibility to inform their policy provider of any changes in their address 
and all Aviva could do was work with the information it had on its records. 
Aviva says Miss A didnt inform it of all the changes to her addresses. Miss A strongly 
disagrees with this. I cant know exactly what has happened but I think its unlikely Aviva 
would not have accurately recorded any changes to Miss As addresses if she had informed 
it as and when the changes happened.
However, in any event I dont think this would have made a difference or impacted Miss A. 
I say this because the indexation option was in place from the start of the policy at Miss As 
own choosing. Therefore, given how long ago the policy was taken out Miss A would have 
received numerous letters each year informing her that the premiums and sum assured were 
increasing due to the indexation option. Ive seen the notifications Aviva sent Miss A of the 
indexed linked increases each year and they all state the increase clearly and provide the 
options of declining the increase.
There is nothing to infer Miss A didnt get the previous letters informing her of the indexed 
increases so I dont think another yearly increase would have been a surprise to her.
Miss A says she should have received advanced notice of the increases. In my view having 
seen the letters I think she did get advance notice. But nevertheless, this would not have 
affected her direct debit details as she seems to think.
In relation to the review letter of 2019 potentially not being received by Miss A, this may have 
been sent to an address she was not living at at the time. But Miss A hasnt been able to 
confirm that she had informed Aviva that she had changed addresses at this time. Aviva has 
no change of address logged on its systems. Therefore, Aviva cant be held responsible for 
sending the letter to the wrong address if Miss A hadnt informed it.Access to online account
Miss A has said she cant access her policy online. Aviva has explained that not all of its 
customers have the online access and it depends upon whether the policy in question is 
being manually administered. This means that the values are calculated by its actuaries and 
therefore it cant be held online. Aviva has confirmed this is the case with Miss As policy. In 
my view this is likely to be because the policy is an old one originally provided by a different 
business which Aviva then took over from. So I dont think this is unusual and while I can 
understand it could be frustrating this isnt something this Service can direct Aviva to 
change.
Falsification of letters
Miss A has alleged that some of the letters Aviva has provided to this Service have been 
falsified. I think this is highly unlikely. Aviva has a duty to provide clear and accurate 
information to this Service and I am satisfied it has done so.
In summary, as the details from Miss A are vague and conflict with a lot of the information 
Aviva has provided I am unable to support any of the claims Miss A has made. I am largely 
satisfied that Aviva has administered the policy correctly in line with the policys terms and 
conditions. And hasnt failed to treat Miss A appropriately or fairly or reasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman