DRN-2394817
The complaint
Mr L complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) didnt appropriately 
handle a payment dispute he made. Hes also concerned about the way Amex dealt with him 
during an online chat and says it didnt retain a transcript afterwards. Mr L says that amounts 
to a data protection breach.
What happened
Mr L disputed a payment on his Amex charge card because the item hed bought wasnt in  
good condition when he received it. He asked Amex to raise a payment dispute on his 
behalf. Amex later told Mr L it would need more information to support his claim. And it said 
if it didnt get it by 28 July 2020, it would discontinue its investigation. Amex told Mr L he 
could upload information to its online document centre. Mr L initially had trouble doing that 
(but Im aware he later managed to do so with the help of a friend), so he contacted Amex 
via its online chat function to ask for help. 
Amex routed Mr Ls chat request to the credit department and the adviser that dealt with him 
asked when hed be making a payment. Mr L later asked the adviser why hed taken the 
whole dialogue in a different route, as he felt his comments didnt address the question Mr 
L had asked. It transpired the adviser wasnt trained in payment disputes so he told Mr L 
hed be better calling the disputes team and gave him the number to do so. Mr L said Amex 
had sent him a false and mis-leading letter when suggesting he could upload information to 
the online document centre, yet the adviser was now telling him he needed to call. Mr L 
wasnt happy with the advisers handling of things, so he asked to be transferred to a 
manager via the chat function. The adviser said his manager wasnt available (and later 
confirmed he was out of the office, but would likely be available on chat a couple of days 
later) so he offered Mr L a callback from another manager, as they were currently involved in 
calls. Mr L said hed keep chatting until a manager was available. And he said the adviser 
was being offensive by suggesting he deal with Amex by phone when hed already said he 
didnt want to. The adviser apologised and said that wasnt his intention and he was trying to 
help in the best way he could. However, the adviser eventually ended the chat as he didnt 
think it was productive.
Later on, Mr L started another online chat to report poor and offensive service. The adviser 
handling this issue agreed to check with a manager the best way for Mr L to raise his 
concerns. Although she pointed out that the standard approach was to discuss things by 
phone. Mr L said he found it very interesting that this adviser was able to discuss things 
with a manager when the first adviser refused to transfer him saying the manager was out of 
the office. This adviser said the team manager wasnt available and, according to a different 
manager, Mr L would need to raise a new complaint (and if necessary theyd assist him by 
raising it with the relevant team). Mr L thanked the adviser for confirming a manager could 
intervene quickly and give guidance even though the first adviser said nobody was available. 
Mr L later complained to Amex about yet more poor service and customer care issues, 
failings and lies. 
Amex wrote to Mr L about the payment dispute on 1 August 2020 and again said it needed 
further information such as: a written description of the goods bought and a copy of the 
original web page or catalogue as proof the goods were not as described. And, if damaged, 
a description of the extent of the damage along with confirmation of when a return or 
cancellation was first requested from the retailer; whod been contacted and by which 
method. Amex said if Mr L didnt respond by 11 August 2020 it wouldnt continue its 
investigation. It later closed the payment dispute as it didnt receive further information from 
Mr L.
Amex didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint about the service issues, as it didnt think there had 
been any errors on its part. It said the disputes team told Mr L what it needed to pursue the 
chargeback claim and as it hadnt received the information, it closed the case. However, it 
said it would reopen the payment dispute if it received the relevant documentation. It also 
said it was satisfied the adviser involved in the first online chat offered alternatives when he 
couldnt give advice about the payment dispute. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Amexs response so he complained to us. One of our investigators 
looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. In relation to the chargeback claim, whilst 
noting that Mr L had eventually managed to upload a reply, that on its own wasnt enough for 
Amex to pursue the chargeback claim. So, he thought Amexs further information request 
was reasonable and noted Amex hadnt received anything further. In terms of the online 
chat, whilst the investigator felt the first adviser could have been a little clearer in his 
responses and noted hed asked an irrelevant question (about a payment), he didnt think 
Amex needed to do anything else. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators assessment, so his complaint was passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L thinks hes given Amex all of the information it needed to pursue a chargeback claim on 
his behalf. Thats the process by which settlement disputes can be resolved between card 
issuers and merchants (the retailer) under the relevant card schemes rules. 
Usually supporting evidence is needed before pursuing any chargeback claim. Having 
received Amexs letter asking for more information, Mr L responded that the retailer hadnt 
said he could have a refund and he indicated hed already sent Amex details of his 
interaction with the retailer. Whilst I can see why Mr L might think the information hed given 
Amex was enough for it to pursue his claim, having looked at Amexs request for more 
information, I think it was reasonable.
When it comes to damaged goods, the card issuer will want to know the exact condition of 
the goods when they were received; the attempts made to informally resolve the dispute with 
the retailer; the nature of the communication and with whom. In other words, it wouldnt 
necessarily be enough just to show theres been communication or interaction. The card 
issuer would want to understand the full sequence of events, not least because it will want to 
know the likelihood of a chargeback claim being successful. And Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest Amex already had that kind of information. So, I dont think there was anything 
wrong with Amex contacting Mr L for more information in the manner it did. And as he 
doesnt appear to have provided anything else, I think Amex was entitled not to take things 
any further. 
However, Im also satisfied Amex didnt just leave things there. It also told Mr L (in its 
complaint response) that it was willing to reopen the case if it received further information. 
Overall, I think Amex responded reasonably to Mr Ls request for it to pursue a chargeback 
claim.  
Turning now to Mr Ls concern about an online chat. Amex says it operates a real-time live 
chat service. And in a similar way to calls being routed to the relevant department, a live 
chat will be routed to the adviser best able to deal with the account. Amex says it routed Mr L to its credit department because he had an outstanding payment. 
But Mr Ls query to Amex wasnt about an outstanding payment - it was about a payment 
dispute. Although its possible that the credit department was considered the most 
appropriate area to deal with the chat given the options available. However, I can see how 
the adviser asking Mr L when he was going to make a payment might not have got the chat 
off to the best start. And it clearly led to Mr Ls complaint that the adviser tried to take the 
whole dialogue in a different route. 
When it became apparent that the adviser wasnt best placed to deal with Mr Ls query, Im 
satisfied he tried to re-route him to the disputes team by giving him the telephone number to 
call. I can see that Mr L indicated he preferred not to speak to Amex on the phone due to its 
previous failings. And whilst I can appreciate his reluctance if hed had previous issues, that 
doesnt mean its suggestion to phone the disputes team was unreasonable. Its fairly typical 
to do business by phone these days, as its often a quicker way of resolving things. Mr L 
wanted help accessing the online document centre in relation to a payment dispute. So, Im 
satisfied that the suggestion of calling the disputes team seemed reasonable in these 
particular circumstances.
Mr L also said he preferred not to make calls to Amex because he didnt trust not having a 
written record afterwards. I can see that the adviser tried to reassure Mr L about that by 
saying that calls are recorded. So, had he phoned, I think Mr L could probably have asked 
Amex for a call recording later on if he felt he needed it. Mr L also thinks the adviser was 
being offensive by suggesting he call Amex when hed already said he didnt want to. But, I 
dont agree. Recognising that he didnt have the expertise to help Mr L, I think the adviser 
simply tried to find a practical solution to move things forward.
Mr L also seems to think the adviser lied to him by saying his line manager wasnt available - 
because the second adviser was able to seek advice from a manager fairly quickly. From 
what Ive read in the transcripts, I dont agree. Both advisers said the relevant manager was 
out of the office, although the first adviser could perhaps have explained that a little earlier. 
And the first adviser hadnt said there were no managers available (as hed offered a 
callback from someone else) simply that his own manager wasnt available at that point and 
other managers were involved in calls. That seems a plausible explanation for why the 
adviser offered a callback. But I dont think the fact there was a manager available during the 
second chat means the first adviser lied. I think it was simply a case of a manager becoming 
available a bit later on when they werent available during the first chat. 
Mr L is also concerned that Amex didnt retain a transcript of his online chats and he thinks 
this amounts to a data protection breach. Its clear that Mr L has had access to the 
transcripts, so I dont think theres been a detriment in the sense of him not being able to see 
a record of what was discussed. I also note his point that by Amex not retaining transcripts, 
theres a potential loss to him as a customer and a potential risk to his security. Its not for 
me to say whether Amexs actions amount to a data breach under the General Data 
Protection Regulations (GDPR). Thats ultimately a matter for the Information 
Commissioners Office. Mr L may wish to raise a separate complaint with that organisation if 
he hasnt already done so.
Having reviewed this complaint carefully, for the reasons Ive outlined, I dont think Amex has 
treated Mr L unfairly here. So, it doesnt need to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 Amanda Scott
Ombudsman