DRN-4034638
The complaint
Mr T complained about what happened when he redeemed his mortgage with HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. He said it made mistakes and caused delays, which led to an incorrect missed 
payment marker being recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr T told us he paid off his mortgage on 25 October 2022, and he has a statement to show 
this, but HSBC then put a missed payment on his credit file. Mr T said hed had to get in 
touch with the credit reference agency (CRA) himself to get this sorted out, HSBC didnt do 
anything about it. Mr T wanted £500 in compensation for this. He said this was the third time 
hed had to complain about his mortgage. 
HSBC said it had offered Mr T £200 for this latest issue, and previously paid a total of £275 
for other recent complaints about his mortgage. HSBC said it wouldnt pay any more. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Ts complaints about taking an additional payment when he 
had paid off his mortgage, and the delay in removing the charge from Mr Ts deeds. He 
didnt think this complaint should be upheld. 
Our investigator said when HSBC sent a redemption statement, it let Mr Ts solicitors know 
that if the redemption was done within five working days of the regular monthly payment 
date, then that payment might be taken anyway, but it would be refunded. HSBC had then 
tried to take a payment. But it also asked that Mr Ts credit file be updated on 8 November. 
So he thought HSBC had shown that a correction to Mr Ts credit file has been done.
Our investigator also said HSBC had followed its own process to remove the charge relating 
to Mr Ts mortgage. But he did think HSBC couldve managed Mr Ts expectations better.
Our investigator said HSBC had paid Mr T £275 compensation for whats happened since 
the account was redeemed, and it had offered £200 more. He thought this was a fair offer, 
so he didnt ask HSBC to do anything more.
Mr T didnt agree. He repeated that hed taken action to correct his credit file, not HSBC. And 
he said the other compensation payments werent for the incorrect reporting of late 
payments, so should have no bearing on the complaint wed been asked to investigate.
Our investigator said HSBC had shown us it had requested an amendment to Mr Ts credit 
file. He said thats part of its process when a mortgage has been paid off, but a payment has 
still been debited for that month. And he said he could see that compensation had been paid 
for other issues, not for incorrect reporting to Mr Ts credit file. But he still thought £200 was 
fair, in line with our guidelines, and it was what hed have suggested if HSBC hadn't.
Mr T said that if he hadnt contacted the CRAs, he didnt think HSBC would have dealt with 
this so quickly. And he said HSBCs system wasnt robust enough to prevent a payment 
being taken from his account three days after the balance was cleared. Mr T said a false 
report on his credit file (which has an otherwise unblemished record) could have had severe 
consequences, which he briefly described. 
Mr T still didnt want to accept HSBCs offer. He wanted his complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I think its worth setting out briefly here, the issues that Mr T has experienced, and raised 
complaints with HSBC about, since his mortgage was redeemed on 25 October 2022.
On 28 October, HSBC paid Mr T £50 because it had tried to take Mr Ts monthly 
mortgage payment, just a few days after his mortgage had been redeemed.
On 8 November, HSBC paid £75, because Mr T complained that his mortgage account 
was showing as being in arrears, although it had been redeemed only a few days earlier. 
He also said this took a long time to sort out. 
On 19 December, HSBC paid £50, when Mr T complained he hadnt received a letter 
confirming his mortgage had been closed. HSBC said any problems were with the post, 
the payment was made because hed been told he couldnt contact the mortgage team 
during a time when they were supposed to be available.
On 21 December, HSBC paid £150 because it hadnt made Mr T aware that removing 
the charge from his deeds would take 21 working days. 
On 9 January 2023, HSBC offered Mr T £200 because his credit file had been marked 
with a missed payment, for the payment HSBC attempted to take shortly after his 
mortgage had been redeemed. HSBC also removed this marker. 
Its fair to say that HSBC hasnt provided excellent service to Mr T overall, in closing his 
mortgage. Although Mr T hasnt asked us specifically to look at all of the above issues, these 
do seem to me to be relevant background to his current complaint. Ill look at first at what I 
think are two separate issues, Mr T not being able to contact the mortgages team and the 
charge not being removed from his deeds. Then Ill look at the problems with Mr Ts 
mortgage redemption which led to a missed payment being shown on his credit file.
Contacting the team - Mr T wasnt able to contact the mortgages team, to find out why he 
hadnt received confirmation that his mortgage had closed. I think its important to note that 
HSBC was clear that this confirmation letter had been sent, but it paid £50 because Mr T 
wasnt able to get hold of the right team, at a time when that team should have been 
available. I think the £50 HSBC paid for this provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
part of Mr Hs complaint.
Removing the charge - Mr T rang again, in late December, concerned that HSBCs charge 
still hadnt been removed from the deeds. He said this was preventing him accessing other 
lending. HSBC does have a clear timescale for this, of 21 days, and it said it acted within its 
timescale. But it was sorry it hadnt told Mr T about this timescale previously. Hed let HSBC 
know that releasing the charge was urgent, and it should have managed his expectations at 
this point. Mr T replied to say his loss was far greater than this, as he couldnt access other 
lending while HSBCs charge was on his deeds, but HSBC wouldnt pay more.Because HSBC did meet its own timescales, and I think acted within a reasonable time, I 
dont think it had to pay Mr T for missed investment earnings. I think it only had to 
compensate Mr T for his disappointment, at not finding out earlier how long this would take. I 
think the £150 HSBC paid for this provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Mr 
Hs complaint.
Ill now turn to the problems Mr T had with his mortgage redemption.
Mr Ts payment to redeem his mortgage was made on 25 October, and processed on 27 
October. HSBC then requested a monthly mortgage payment by direct debit on 28 October. 
I think two things are worth noting here. One is that when Mr Ts solicitors asked for a 
redemption statement, they also asked HSBC not to cancel the direct debit, in case the 
mortgage wasnt redeemed before the next payment. And the other is that when HSBC 
replied to that solicitors request, it said if the redemption was made within five working days 
of the monthly direct debit, that payment would still be taken, but it would be returned.
I wouldnt have expected HSBC to cancel the direct debit in advance of receiving Mr Ts full 
redemption payment, and there was unfortunately little time to do so, once the payment was 
received and processed. HSBCs standard process appears to be to request the payment 
anyway, and then return it. I dont think thats unreasonable, especially as HSBC had warned 
Mr T that this might happen. HSBC paid £50 in compensation for this.
Not long after his mortgage had closed, Mr Ts mortgage showed, not as closed, but in 
arrears. He told HSBC about this, and it said this was to do with the missed payment it had 
requested. HSBC paid £75 for this, which included the inconvenience Mr T experienced 
when trying to alert HSBC to this. It also noted that Mr Ts credit file needed to be amended 
for October.
In January, Mr T alerted HSBC to the fact that his credit file had been marked with a missed 
payment, for the payment HSBC attempted to take shortly after his mortgage had been 
redeemed. HSBC offered £200 for this, and amended Mr Ts credit file. 
Mr T says that his credit file was only cleared because he requested this himself, and sent 
the CRA the relevant paperwork. But it would be quite unusual for a CRA to amend a credit 
file as a result of an individuals request like this, if the bank hadnt confirmed that this was 
an error. It would also be very unusual for this to happen so promptly after Mr Ts request. 
CRAs generally require a lead-in time to make updates. But Mr T said this happened quickly. 
And I think thats likely to be because HSBC had already requested this amendment some 
time earlier. So I do think HSBC corrected Mr Ts file. 
It seems likely that the eventual credit file problem was linked to the fact that a payment was 
requested but not made after the account closed, and Mr Ts mortgage then initially showed 
as in arrears, not redeemed. I havent been able to see whether what went wrong here was 
a clerical error by HSBC or a systems problem, but either way, what went wrong clearly 
wasnt Mr Ts fault, and it has caused problems hes repeatedly tried to sort out. So what Ive 
got to decide is whether HSBC has done enough to put things right.
I can see that, on the three occasions Mr T has complained, about what I consider are linked 
issues to do with the closure of his mortgage and the payment requested after that, HSBC 
has paid a total of £125 in compensation. And its offered £200 more. Mr T says this isnt 
anywhere near enough, considering what the impact of a missed payment marker could 
have been. I can appreciate that Mr T would have been concerned about possible negative 
consequences, but fortunately none of those possible consequences seem to have materialised, and Mr Ts credit file has now been cleared. With that in mind, I do think that 
the payments HSBC has made, and the offer which remains open to Mr T, for this issue 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Mr Ts complaint, and I wont ask it to 
pay any more than it has offered. 
For those reasons, my decision will only require HSBC to pay the amount of £200 it has 
previously offered, if it hasnt done so already. I know Mr T will be disappointed, but I dont 
think HSBC has to do more than that.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr T the amount of £200 that it 
previously offered for a mistaken missed payment marker on his credit file, unless it has 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman