DRN-3622720
The complaint
Mr B complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited havent paid enough for his van 
after he claimed on his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Bs van was stolen so he claimed on his commercial vehicle insurance policy with Haven. 
Haven accepted the claim and offered £9,037.5 as the market value of Mr Bs van, this was 
then increased to £10,165. Mr B didnt think this was enough and complained, he said hed 
paid around £18,000 for his van a few weeks before. As Haven didnt offer more, he referred 
his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that the 
trade guides gave values of £10,165, £12,700 and £15,364, not including VAT. And as Mr B 
was VAT registered, he didnt think it was fair for Haven to include VAT. So, he 
recommended Haven increase its offer to £12,743, which was the average of the three 
guides. He also recommended Haven pay 8% simple interest on the increased amount it 
pays. However, he noticed Mr B had paid around £2,500 for maintenance on the van and Mr 
B had added this to what he paid for it when saying it had cost him around £18,000. Our 
investigator didnt think it was fair for Haven to pay for the maintenance Mr B had done to the 
van.  
Haven didnt respond to our investigators recommendation. Mr B responded and accepted 
it. As Haven didnt respond the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy say that if Haven deem his van a total loss, it will 
pay him the market value. It defines market value as the cost of replacing Your Vehicle with
one of similar make, model and specification, taking into account the age, mileage and 
condition of Your Vehicle.
Our service doesnt value vans. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices.
Haven used one trade guide to value Mr Bs van, which gave a value of £10,165. Our 
service uses more than one guide, so Ive looked at the other trade guides we have access 
to. These provided values of £12,995 and £15,364. Our investigator recommended Haven 
pays the average of the three value he got which he said is £12,743, and Mr B accepted this 
as a fair valuation.
Considering Mr B had paid around £2,500 in maintenance of his van, I think its unlikely Mr B 
would be able to replace his van with the lowest of the three guides. And as Haven hasnt 
provided anything to show why its fair and reasonable to pay the lowest of the three guides. 
Im satisfied £12,743, not including VAT, is a fair and reasonable amount for Haven to pay 
Mr B for his van as its within the range of the values the guides have given. 
As there is a difference between what Haven paid Mr B and the valuation of £12,743, Haven 
should add 8% simple interest per year to the additional amount it pays. This is to 
compensate Mr B for not having the money. Haven should calculate this from the date 
£10,165 was paid until the date it pays the additional amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B £12,743 excluding VAT in settlement of his 
total loss claim for his van. Haven Insurance Company Limited also needs to add 8% simple 
interest per year to the additional amount it pays, calculated from the date of the payment of 
£10,165 until the date it pays the additional amount. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman