DRN-2708157
The complaint
Mr D complains about the premium he was quoted for car insurance through Hastings 
Insurances Services Limited, trading as Hastings Direct (Hastings).
What happened
In March 2019, Mr D took out car insurance through Hastings, who were the broker for the 
policy. Mr D had requested that the policy didnt automatically renew itself.
So, in February 2020, Hastings sent Mr D a renewal quote to continue with his current 
policy. The letter said that Mr D would need to get in touch with Hastings by 22 March 2020 
if he wanted to accept the quote.
Mr D says that he forgot about the letter and so didnt get back in touch with Hastings to 
accept the offer. But it was only later he realised that he wasnt insured to drive his car  and 
he did in fact want to continue with his policy.
When Mr D let Hastings know that he wanted to accept the renewal offer, the offer had 
expired, and Hastings said it would no longer be able to honour the offer. As such, the policy 
Mr D had through Hastings had now ended. Mr D was provided with some new quotes 
through Hastings, but these were much more expensive than what he was offered at 
renewal.
Mr D wants Hastings to provide him with a car insurance policy with a similar premium to 
what he was offered at renewal. Mr D has tried to negotiate with Hastings and has told it he 
would pay £400 for the policy. 
Hastings has responded to Mr D to say that it doesnt determine how much the policies cost 
 and that it gets its quotes directly from the underwriter and it is the underwriter that decides 
on the premium. Because of this, it cant offer Mr D a car insurance policy at the price he 
wants. But Mr D wasnt happy with Hastings response and so he has brought his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr D. He found that because Mr D didnt reply to 
the renewal quote, and that his policy hadnt renewed, Hastings hadnt done anything wrong. 
He didnt think that Hastings were responsible for pricing the policy  as this was the role of 
the underwriter, and so he didnt think Hastings had acted unfairly by not being able to offer 
him a cheaper quote.
Mr D responded to say he disagreed. He still feels that it was unfair of Hastings to provide 
him with a renewal quote in March 2020  and then offer him a quote four times more 
expensive later in the same year. He doesnt feel that Hastings have been fair in not trying to 
arrange a better quote with the underwriter.
Because Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Mr Ds situation. Its clear that the consequences of 
him being uninsured and no longer able to use his car is causing upset, which is completely 
understandable. In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard 
the situation Mr D has found himself in. But being independent means, I have to take a step 
back and consider what both parties have said, and what Hastings are responsible for in its 
role as the broker of the policy. And I have to look to see if Hastings has acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Mr D  and I think it has.
I appreciate Mr D has spent a long time trying to resolve this issue with Hastings, and it is 
clear how strongly he feels about his complaint. Id like to reassure Mr D that I have read and 
considered everything he has sent to us, so while I may not have commented on everything 
he has said, I have taken this into account.
Ive seen a copy of the renewal letter Hastings sent Mr D on 23 February 2020. It tells Mr D 
the cost of the premium if he wanted to renew his policy, and it then goes onto say Youve 
previously told us you don't want your policy automatically renewed. This means if we dont 
hear from you, your insurance will end on 22nd March 2020.
I understand Mr D had some personal issues that were taking priority at that time, and so he 
forgot to respond to the quote by the date specified in the letter. And it was only later when 
he was contacted by the Motor Insurance Database (MID) that he realised he didnt have 
cover. Mr D accepts that this was an oversight on his part. But because Hastings provided 
Mr D with a reasonable amount of time to accept the quote if hed have wanted to, I cant 
fairly say that it did anything wrong by allowing the policy to expire and not being able to 
offer him the quoted renewal price for a new policy.
I can understand how frustrating it must have been for Mr D when he later found that a new 
policy taken out through Hastings would cost him around four times more than he was 
quoted at renewal. I know Mr D has been told this previously, but I must stress that the cost 
of a policy isnt normally determined by the broker. In this case, Hastings has said that it gets 
the cost of premium directly from the underwriter, and they communicate this to the 
customer. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Hastings responsible for the 
increase in premium that was being offered to Mr D.
I know Mr D thinks that Hastings are responsible for not being able to get him a cheaper 
quote, but I dont agree with this. The cost of a policy is determined by many factors which 
are set by the underwriter  the premium cost can change on a daily basis. It isnt up to 
Hastings to set this price  after all, it isnt Hastings who are insuring the risk. Hastings can 
only pass on the premium quote that it has received from the underwriter. And I think it has 
done this.
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr D, but based on everything 
Ive seen, I cant fairly say that Hastings have done anything wrong in not being able to offer 
Mr D a better quote for car insurance cover. Mr D is of course free to go to a different 
provider should he be able to find something more competitive. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman