DRN-4222041
The complaint
Mr Bs representative has complained, on his behalf, to Portfolio Financial Consultancy 
Limited, which has since been acquired by Capital Professional Limited, trading as Ascot 
Lloyd, about what it considers to be unsuitable advice to access the benefits within his Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) policy.  
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
Mr B met with an adviser from Portfolio and an existing fact find was updated on 20
February 2020 that noted the following:
Mr B was co-habiting, in good health and employed as a manager, earning around 
£61,000 pa
He had £90,000 on deposit
His main residence was valued at around £140,000 with no mortgage attached
He had £18,000 in premium bonds
He had an Aviva Group Personal Pension (GPP) valued at around £20,000
His retirement age was 57
His net monthly income was £2,800 and total monthly outgoing was £3,000
A financial planning report was then issued on 2 March 2020 which detailed that Mr B would:
Withdraw a tax-free lump of £66,000 from the SIPP he held with LV (this had been 
the recipient of a defined benefits transfer, valued at around £880,000).
Withdraw his maximum tax-free cash entitlement (25%) from his Aviva Group 
Personal Pension plan, followed by a monthly taxable income of £1,040 per month.
His Aviva funds would be accessed from April 2020 after he finished working 
His income would be tax free as long as he was receiving no other income, as it fell
within his personal allowance.
A P45 detailed Mr Bs date of leaving employment as 31 March 2020 with £61,501 pay to 
date.
On 25 January 2021, an email trail between Mr B and his adviser recorded Mr Bs 
preference for monthly statements, and the potential for rebalancing and a transfer for 
transparency. The e-mail trail also set out that Mr B had been sending in a withdrawal form 
every three months to take income manually.
On 6 July 2021, an internal Portfolio e-mail recorded that Mr B had been in touch as he was 
expecting his quarterly income payment from his LV SIPP and wanted to know why it hadnt 
been paid. 
A further internal e-mail then detailed the manual income payments were only made until 
December 2020/January 2021. Another e-mail said that He wants to get the income 
payment missed backdated, paid, and then set up going forward. Please could you look into 
doing this. Could you get the form sorted for me today and Ill let him know what we are 
doing and what the income payment will be. He wants the same amount paid as was done in 
January.
Mr Bs representative complained to Portfolio on 10 February 2023, raising concerns that the 
advice was unsuitable, for the following reasons:
It didnt consider that he should have been advised to access his pension in March 
2020 as he didnt need to access his pension benefits to meet his immediate income 
needs in retirement.
On the date he retired, he was comfortable financially. He owned his own home 
worth approximately £140,000, mortgage-free, and he had over £95,000 invested in 
a variety of deposit accounts and ISAs.
These assets were not mentioned in Portfolios report and included an Aviva pension 
fund worth £48,000, a Virgin Money Stocks and Shares ISA worth around £60,000, a 
Lloyds Bank Classic Savings Account worth around £5,000 and a West Bromwich 
savings account worth around £30,000.
The absence of any information about his non-pension assets within the suitability 
report indicated that Portfolio didnt consider Mr Bs circumstances as a whole. It 
didnt think that Portfolio had properly explored whether there might be other ways to 
meet his immediate and on-going financial needs before advising him to take tax-free 
cash from his pension.
Portfolio declined to uphold the complaint, however, saying that Mr B contacted Portfolio in 
November 2019 as he had given four months notice to his employer and wanted to take a 
lump sum withdrawal from his pension and commence regular income. Portfolio also said Mr 
Bennet had very strong pension knowledge, citing his decision to forego four months salary 
- via salary sacrifice - without advice, as an example. 
Portfolio also said that Mr B accessed his pension in order to replace lost income from work 
and this evidenced that Mr Bs funds on deposit were to be used for other purposes, as had 
been Portfolios understanding.
Portfolio also said that Mr B was considering using the funds on deposit for a house 
purchase.Mr Bs representative didnt accept Portfolios response and said that he had no plans to 
relocate or use his savings for a property purchase, adding there was no mention of the 
relocation or property purchase in the advisers file. 
It further said that Portfolio ought to have mentioned that his savings were earmarked for a 
house purchase, but it didnt. It added that, even if Mr B was thinking of relocating, he owned 
his existing home mortgage-free and had a significant level of savings, and therefore 
Portfolio ought to have discussed the possibility of using his non-pension assets to fund the 
move.
If Mr B disagreed, it should have discussed his reasoning, and added this to the advisers 
recommendation report. But Mr B had said that this never happened as he was never 
thinking of using his savings in the way Portfolio had said. And no discussion on this 
occurred. 
The complaint was referred to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. He 
didnt think it should be upheld, saying the following in summary:
COBS 9.2.1 set out that:
(1) A firm must:
(a) take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a decision 
to trade, is suitable for its client
Mr Bs recorded objective was to access a £66,000 lump sum and an initial two 
months worth of income (at total of £6,000), and the recommendation achieved this.
The recommendation report also recorded in some detail Mr Bs retirement timeline 
and the income shortfall between February and April 2020 (as a result of Mr B 
relinquishing salary in favour of enhancing his tax relievable pension contributions) 
which would need to be produced from a source other than salary.
The accessing of tax free cash and taking income below the personal allowance in 
the next tax year also produced further tax benefits.
Whilst hed noted the assertion that Mr B could have accessed other savings instead 
of his pension benefits, he didnt consider that this is what should have happened.
He also thought that Portfolios points about Mr B no longer being in possession of 
the deposit funds, or having these earmarked for a deposit so that he could move 
closer to his parents, seemed plausible. This was especially the case given the 
context provided by emails between Mr B and Portfolio relating to his parents.
He understood the point relating to the loss of tax efficient growth on the funds 
withdrawn from the pension, but as Mr B was retiring, removing assets from 
environments where they were exposed to investment risk may not have been 
unsuitable.
Mr B also capitalised on the increase in interest rates by retaining his funds on 
deposit. This would have enhanced his overall security in retirement.
Although Mr B could have exhausted his funds on deposit before accessing his 
pension funds, this wouldnt have run to the six years suggested by Mr Bs representative, but to around four years. And this would then have meant that Mr B 
had no instantly accessible emergency fund to rely upon and would have lost his ISA 
tax efficiency.
One of the assets cited as being one upon which Mr B could otherwise have drawn 
was the Aviva pension fund, but this would have had the same effect. As it was, by 
using some of his pension assets, he had security and diversification.
If Mr B hadnt withdrawn any pension income, he would have lost the use of his 
personal allowance over the time it took to exhaust his funds. Over six years, this 
would have amounted to around £75,000 of lost allowance. And there was evidence 
that Mr B was aware of tax efficiency issues, as demonstrated by his decision to 
sacrifice salary in favour of the pension contribution.
The investigator further noted that it was likely that Mr B was himself aware that he 
could access his funds on deposit if he wished, instead of accessing his pension 
funds. And given that Mr B was submitting forms on a quarterly basis to receive his 
pension income, and then chased the missing income in 2021, it seemed that Mr B 
was quite comfortable with receiving the income from his pension fund.
He added that there was nothing fundamentally wrong with a consumer who had 
reached retirement deciding to access tax free lump sums and then beginning to 
draw income from pension funds, whist retaining other funds on deposit.
Mr Bs representative disagreed, however, providing statements showing Mr Bs total 
accessible savings at the time to be around £95,000, and saying the following in summary:
Mr B maintained that his savings were never earmarked for property purchase, and, 
given that it hadnt been recorded in the advisers recommendation report, didnt 
know whence this notion had arisen. The savings had in fact been completely 
ignored in that report.
Mr B was advised to take the tax free cash from his pension to do whatever he 
wished with it, but there was no need to do so, as identified in Portfolios own 
paperwork, and hes lost out on tax fax efficient growth as a result.
Mr B should have delayed accessing his pension benefits. By taking them when he 
did, in March 2020, he locked in losses caused by the emerging Covid pandemic.
The FCA had specifically warned against the unnecessary accessing of pension 
benefits in its guidance note published in April 2020. This contained a specific section 
relating to risk factors in the current climate, and that, if individuals had access to 
other assets, there may be fewer long term risks if they accessed those first. 
Although this note was published a month after the advice was given, it ought to have 
been clear to Portfolio that it should be considering Mr Bs wider circumstances and 
the pandemic when giving advice.
Portfolio overestimated Mr Bs income needs  they were lower than £3,000 net per 
month. It simply assumed that his take home pay whilst working would reflect his 
income needs in retirement. But no in depth analysis of his planned expenditure and 
how this might change in retirement was undertaken. Mr B considered that his 
income needs between 2020-2022 were in fact closer to £2,000 per month due to the 
pandemic. It also wished to noted that Mr B had ceased taking tax free cash from his 
pension funds each quarter, and had been supporting himself using savings.Since 2022, Mr Bs income needs had risen to around £2,500 per month, and this 
meant that his savings could have lasted him for around five years before needing to 
start accessing his pension benefits. It wasnt necessarily the case that Mr B would 
have needed to exhaust his savings before doing so, but he could have revisited 
Portfolio and reassessed his position. It was, however, wrong to have advised Mr B 
to access his pension benefits as early as he did.
Although the representative acknowledged the point about Mr B being able to use his 
personal allowance by accessing his pension early, this ignored the compounded 
investment growth which could have been enjoyed by Mr B had he not accessed his 
pension.
From an inheritance tax (IHT) perspective, Mr B would have been better off delaying 
access to his pension, as Mr B and his partner werent married and so didnt benefit 
from the spousal IHT exemptions on transfers. As soon as Mr B removed money 
from his pension, any unused sums became part of his taxable estate.
Mr Bs representative also set out what it considered to be factual inaccuracies 
relating to Mr Bs case. It said that the value of Mr Bs group personal pension plan 
with Aviva was £48,000, not £20,000, and Mr B didnt have any premium bonds at 
the time.
Mr B didnt approach Portfolio in November 2019 and hadnt given four months 
notice to his employer at that time. Mr B recalled a meeting to discuss investment 
performance with an adviser at Portfolio  and this would have been following the 
transfer of that adviser from a previous business.
Mr B gave his notice in January 2020, but was able to shorten his notice period due 
to the accrual of a significant number of lieu days. And Mr B then discussed his 
pension with Portfolio after hed handed in his notice.
Mr Bs decisions relating to family matters were after January 2020, at which point he 
assessed the additional level of care which would be needed to support his parents.
Mr B hadnt relinquished four months salary, as had been indicated in the 
investigators view, and so this couldnt be taken as in indication of his pension 
knowledge. And it wasnt fair to suggest that any pension knowledge Mr B held 
absolved Portfolio of its responsibilities here.
Mr B followed the advice he was given, having paid for that advice. Mr B had 
confirmed that he wasnt sophisticated in pensions maters and held his savings in 
ISAs and fixed rate accounts.
Until recently, Mr Bs pension affairs had been managed by his employer and hed 
only made the decision to transfer to a personal pension plan after being given 
negligent advice by the advisers previous firm. Mr Bs pension knowledge came from 
messroom talk with colleagues and what hed been told by professional advisers. 
And once he took subsequent independent financial advice, he stopped taking 
quarterly tax free cash from his pension.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, the investigator confirmed to both parties it 
would be referred to an ombudsman for review.Mr Bs representative then submitted further comments as follows:
Mr B had, as at August 2023, been taking income of £1,320 per month for the 
previous 18 months  and so this meant that his savings could have lasted at least 
five years before he needed to consider accessing his pension benefits.
If Portfolio believed that Mr B was earmarking his savings towards property 
purchase, which Mr B refuted, this should have been discussed with him and 
documented in the recommendation report.
But in any case, one solution to such an envisaged property purchase would have 
been to take out a mortgage (as base rate was 0.1% at the time) and to leave his 
savings and investments  which were generally performing well - alone.
If Mr B wished to live nearer to his parents, Portfolio could have suggested that he 
rent. Mr Bs and his partners social network was in their local town and so it wouldnt 
have been attractive for them to move closer to his parents  which would have been 
for the short-medium term.
Mr B had also confirmed that he owned his parents home equally with is brother.
The representative also attached a letter from Portfolio to Mr B dated 2 April 2020, which it 
noted said the following:
As discussed, at this stage it is still very difficult to say how markets will perform over the 
next few weeks and possibly months as the current crisis plays out. In any event, it remains 
important not to panic, keep to longer-term investment goals using sensible investment 
portfolios and not to try and time markets, as this is easier to get wrong than right.
It is important to note that when markets have experienced significant and rapid falls in 
previous times the main losers were those that moved to cash and consolidated 
losses, never to return or having the chance to recover them. It has always been our 
advice to remain invested during difficult markets conditions. Markets do ultimately 
normalise, and when they do, those who stay invested may benefit more than those 
who don't.
Having discussed the volatility and fall in values currently experienced, we both agree 
that the best course of action is to remain invested and not make any changes at 
present. (the representatives emphasis)
This, the representative said, conflicted with the advice given to Mr B to continue accessing 
his pension benefits throughout 2020 when he didnt need to. It considered that Mr B had 
suffered a loss due to accessing his pension at a time of falling markets.
The investigator considered the points made, but it didnt persuade him to change his view 
on the matter. He said the following in summary:
He acknowledged that Mr B could have accessed is savings instead of his pension 
funds, but he maintained his position that it was reasonable to do the latter.
He also noted the statements produced from the time of the advice, but said it wasnt 
clear as to whether Mr B had used the tax free cash and whether the savings from 
2020 were still available to him. But he didnt in any case consider that either position would render the advice unsuitable  he didnt think there was anything wrong with 
Mr B having accessed his tax free cash.
He also reiterated his view that Mr B could use his annual personal allowance by 
drawing income from his pension, and if this was lost over several years, he couldnt 
get it back.
He noted the point relating to the possibility of Mr B having taken out a mortgage if he 
wished to buy a property closer to his parents, or rent one. But he also said that 
moving home in such circumstances wasnt an unusual step.
And regarding the letter of April 2020, he said that this was clearly in response to 
concerns about pulling invested funds out of the market entirely. Many consumers, 
he noted, were concerned by the pandemic, and were choosing to withdraw invested 
funds and place them in cash.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, the matter has now been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly say that there are often several ways in which to achieve financial objectives  and 
my role here is to determine whether the one recommended by Portfolio (and I agree with Mr 
Bs representative that, irrespective of any financial knowledge held by Mr B, it was the 
professional party here) was suitable.
I take the point about the savings not being mentioned in the recommendation report, but 
they were noted in the fact find. I also agree that it would have been helpful to set out more 
clearly the rationale for the withdrawal of the £66,000 tax free lump sum, but whilst I note the 
comments that this is what Mr B had been advised to do, its a very specific sum (rather than 
say a rounded up amount of £100,000 which might have been advised for a more generic 
purpose), and theres mention in the recommendation report that due to the need to proceed 
with haste with the withdrawals, a full review hadnt been undertaken.
Clearly, Mr B did have funds on deposit, as evidenced by both the fact find and the 
statements from the time which have been produced, but in the absence of documentary 
evidence as to what Mr Bs plans were, I need to consider what is more likely than not to 
have been the case.
And I do think the situation with Mr Bs parents is pertinent here, and may well have fed into 
his thinking at the time about ring fencing funds with which to buy a property closer to them. I 
note that both Mr Bs parents sadly died relatively shortly after the advice, and so the 
purpose of the ringfencing may also then have become less relevant. But this doesnt mean 
that the thinking, and planning, in March 2020 may have been quite different.
I do nevertheless acknowledge Mr Bs steadfast view that he never had this intention and 
that this had certainly never been communicated to Portfolio. And I accept that a different 
interpretation of the facts might be possible in terms whether or not the savings had been 
earmarked. And I agree that the fact that this wasnt mentioned in the recommendation 
report is a notable omission.
But even if Im wrong on the point relating to the earmarking of the funds on deposit, its not always the case that such funds should be used before pension funds. And I think the 
representatives basic premise here is flawed. I would suggest that, in terms of certain tax 
efficiencies on both sides, and other advantages of retaining funds on deposit, prudent 
financial advice might arguably include a mixture of both. Funds on deposit are in general 
terms more readily accessible, and again, Id refer to the required haste of the withdrawal 
process as mentioned in the recommendation report - and having a mixture of invested and 
fixed interest funds also spreads investment risk.
I also think the investigator has made a good point about Mr B having been able to capitalise 
on his personal allowance each year by taking his pension benefits as income and leaving 
the savings as they are. Mr Bs representative has pointed to the loss of compounded growth 
on his pension assets, but £60,000  two thirds - of Mr Bs savings were held in stocks and 
shares ISAs, and so he was able to capitalise on the personal allowance and enjoy the same 
or similar type of compounded growth and tax free returns from that part of his savings. And 
there was also of course in any case no guarantee of compounded growth within either the 
risk based pension or stocks and shares ISA environment.
Ive noted the point about the state of financial markets in March 2020 and indeed the letter 
from the beginning of April 2020, in which Portfolio set out its position that it was better to 
remain invested in volatile periods rather switching to cash, but I agree with the investigator 
that this was likely to be general commentary on not switching all of Mr Bs (and indeed other 
clients) invested assets into cash. And it should be borne in mind that, even after the tax 
free cash withdrawal, Mr B had an overall pension fund of in excess of £800,000.
But there is still a read across from this into the general principle of using uninvested assets 
in times of market volatility, to avoid the very situation described in that letter. So Ive thought 
carefully about that, and whether Mr B would have been better advised to use the £30,000 or 
so he held in cash (outside of tax efficient stocks and shares ISAs) first - before accessing 
his invested pension funds.
But having done so, I dont think that advising Mr B to access this first would have been the 
more obviously suitable solution. I think in such times, its natural for individuals to want to 
retain instantly accessible funds for emergency use. It was a very uncertain point in time  
and notwithstanding the request to withdraw the very specific amount of £66,000 as tax free 
cash, the fact that Mr B had elderly parents who were not in good health might well have 
reinforced that sentiment for Mr B. 
So overall, I dont think that accessing the cash part of Mr Bs savings before the pension 
assets would have been an obviously more suitable course of action here. Thats not to say 
that there wont be situations in which accessing other assets before pension benefits might 
(dependent upon individual circumstances) be the more obviously suitable decision, for 
example if that would involve relinquishing the guarantees associated with defined benefits. 
But that wasnt the case here. Mr Bs defined benefits had already been transferred into a 
personal pension plan.
Mr Bs representative has also said that the income needs were overestimated, and that 
instead of the expected £3,000 net per month Portfolio had said would be required, Mr B 
considered that, due to the pandemic, he would only have needed around £2,000 net per 
month. Ive also noted that Mr B has since taken a lower amount of income. But the effects 
of the pandemic werent at the point of the advice (early March 2020), being fully felt. I dont 
think its reasonable to expect Portfolio to have factored in extended periods of lockdown, 
and the effect that this might have on an individuals likely spending, before those lockdowns 
had even begun.
Furthermore, there was no real reason for Portfolio to expect that Mr Bs spending patterns might change. He had, for example, no mortgage to repay, which might have contributed to 
a lower need for income. And so I dont agree that Portfolio should have anticipated a 
different level of overall spending. This is borne out by Mr B expecting his income payments, 
at a particular level, to continue into 2021.
Mr Bs representative has also said that, if Mr B wished to buy a property, then instead of 
accessing either his pension assets or his savings, which it says were generally performing 
well, he could have taken out a mortgage. But notwithstanding the disparity between what 
Mr Bs representative has said about markets declining at the time of the advice, but Mr Bs 
savings (two thirds of which were held in a stocks and shares ISA) seemingly nevertheless 
performing well, Im not necessarily convinced of the financial wisdom of taking an 
unnecessarily large mortgage when at least some of the cost could be borne by savings. 
And the point made by Mr Bs representative about low interest rates of course cuts both 
ways, for both borrowing and saving. So if base rate was at 0.1%, then it seems unlikely that 
Mr B was receiving much more than this in fixed rate accounts, or that this would have 
persisted beyond whatever fixed rate he may then have enjoyed. But I also think it unlikely 
that Mr B would have been able to find a mortgage at a lower cost than the interest he was 
receiving on such savings. 
As to the point relating to the IHT disadvantage of Mr B accessing his pension, whilst its true 
to say that any unused withdrawn sums would form part of Mr Bs estate, I dont think the 
objective was for Mr B to accumulate further savings which would fall into his estate upon 
death. The purpose of accessing the pension benefits was to provide a specific lump sum 
and income - not additional savings. 
Had it been the latter, then I might be inclined to agree that withdrawing pension benefits for 
the purpose of additional savings was an unsuitable course of action. But that isnt the 
situation here. And Id also comment that, given the overall assets which Mr B held, it 
doesnt seem to be the case that Mr B was in danger of breaching his nil rate band 
allowance.
In closing, Ive noted some of the comments around factual inaccuracies, but many of these 
are contained in a suitability report which Mr B had the opportunity to, and indeed was 
invited to, correct at the time. And I just cant see the rationale for Portfolio simply fabricating, 
for example, £18,000 being held in premium bonds. There would seem little point in it doing 
so, especially when Mr B could so easily dispute this at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman