DRN-3601789
The complaint
Mrs W, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn Limited irresponsibly 
granted her a conditional sale agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2018, Mrs W acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mrs W was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £157.10. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £9,268.90. 
Mrs W began missing repayments under the agreement after six months. Moneybarn issued 
default notice letters in January and August 2019, with the agreement then being terminated 
in September 2019 and the car subsequently being sold at auction. Mrs W agreed a 
payment plan with Moneybarn in March 2021 but continued to fall into arrears with her 
repayments. 
Mrs W says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included carrying out a credit check and 
verifying her income. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement. The third party sent 
through some of Mrs Ws bank statements but these didnt change our adjudicators view. 
As Mrs W didnt agree with our adjudicators findings her complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
I understand the credit check Moneybarn completed showed that Mrs W had defaulted on 
credit around 8 months previously. Given the length of the loan repayments, albeit at a 
relatively modest monthly payment level, I think this ought to have indicated that Mrs W 
could well be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for 
Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of her financial circumstances before 
lending.
Moneybarn didnt ask Mrs W about her expenditure. Although it did complete a credit check, 
this wont have indicated what Mrs Ws regular living expenses were. Without knowing what 
her regular committed expenditure was Moneybarn wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete 
proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Mrs W would have told Moneybarn had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mrs Ws 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed six months of bank statements, covering the period leading up to and around 
the time of the application for the agreement. These show that Mrs Ws regular committed 
monthly expenditure at the time was around £1,300-£1,600 per month. In calculating these 
figures, Ive included key regular expenses such as utilities, food, car expenses and credit 
commitments, including regular payments being made to a payday lender. At the time her 
income appeared to average out at about £3,000 per month, taking into account the benefits 
Mrs W was receiving alongside her earnings. Using those figures, I consider the agreement 
was affordable to Mrs W and that she likely would have had enough disposable income left 
to cover the cost of the monthly payments under the agreement. I say this having noted that 
Mrs W says her benefits were going to reduce in the future  although I havent seen 
evidence of that. But even taking that possibility into account, I think this still would have 
been likely to leave enough to cover the payments due under the agreement. Im therefore 
not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
As Mrs W hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Moneybarn ought to have known she would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman