DRN-3446092
The complaint
Miss K complains about Santander UK Plc and the service they provided when she 
attempted to transfer funds into her account.
What happened
Miss K holds a current account with Santander. On 30 March 2021, Miss K transferred 
£65,500 from her account with lender F to her account with Santander with the intention of 
using the funds on an investment platform. But the funds werent processed into Miss Ks 
account until 6 April and Miss K says by this time, shed missed the investment opportunity 
available to her. Miss K was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss K was unhappy with the length of time it took Santander to clear the funds into her 
account. She explained she transferred the funds on the understanding theyd be available 
the same day. And as they werent, shed been unable to invest them. So, she wanted to be 
compensated for this financial loss as well as the upset and inconvenience shed been 
caused when chasing Santander to confirm where the funds were.
Santander responded and upheld Miss Ks complaint. They recognise there was a delay in 
the funds being available to Miss K, but they didnt think this was because of anything they 
did wrong. They explained the bank holiday and potential fraud checks may have led to the 
transfer taking longer than Miss K expected. And they explained it was the sending bank, in 
this case lender F, who had a responsibility to make customers aware payments may be 
subject to checks. But they agreed they hadnt called Miss K when they shouldve done after 
shed chased the funds location. And they recognised the inconvenience shed have felt 
when trying to contact them, as they had significant wait times due to staffing issues. So, 
they offered Miss K £100 to recognise this. Miss K remained unhappy with this response, so 
she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained Santander 
had confirmed the clearance of the funds was delayed due to fraud checks that were made. 
And they explained Santander were entitled to make these checks, in line with the terms of 
the account. Our investigator thought this, alongside the reduction of working days due to 
the bank holiday, meant Santander had acted fairly and they couldnt say the fund clearance 
had been unreasonably delayed. But they did think it was clear Miss K had been 
inconvenienced when trying to contact Santander and they thought the £100 Santander had 
offered was a fair one. So, they didnt think Santander needed to do anything more.
Miss K didnt agree. She didnt think the £100 Santander offered fairly compensated her for 
the anxiety she felt over the time she was waiting for confirmation her funds had been 
received. So, she maintained her belief that the compensation should be increased. As Miss 
K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss K. I understand the 
transfer was for a significant amount of money. So, I appreciate that in the time between 
lender F transferring the funds to Santander and the funds showing in Miss Ks Santander 
account, Miss K wouldve been anxious about the funds whereabouts and whether the 
transfer had been processed correctly. But there being a delay isnt enough for me to say 
Santander have acted unfairly. For me to say this, Id need to be satisfied that it was a 
mistake made by Santander that led to the delay Miss K experienced. And in this situation, I 
dont think there was.
It's not in dispute that the transfer was made on 30 March 2021, and the funds werent 
available in Miss Ks Santander account until 6 April, some seven days later. But I think its 
important to note four of these seven days were non-working days for Santander, due to the 
Easter bank holiday that year. So, the transfer was completed on the third working day 
available.
And Santander have confirmed the delay was due to the transfer being flagged by their fraud 
prevention team. While I understand the transfer was genuine, and it was between two 
accounts in Miss Ks name, I dont think this means Santander were unfair to flag this 
transaction. Santander have a duty to protect Miss Ks account from fraudulent activity. And 
this includes both deposits and withdrawals into the account. The terms of Miss Ks account 
explain that Santanders fraud detection systems may highlight unusual spending patterns. 
And I think Miss Ks transfer was for a significant amount, so I can understand why 
Santander would deem a transfer of this value to be unusual. Because of this, I think 
Santander acted fairly, and in line with the terms of Miss Ks account, when completing 
checks before making the funds available. And I think three working days for this process is 
reasonable. So, I dont think I can say theyve made a mistake relating to the fund transfer 
delay.
But thats not to say I think the service Santander provided during this time was reasonable. 
Santander themselves have admitted their call waiting times around this time were longer 
than they wouldve liked. So, its not in dispute that Miss K was inconvenienced when she 
chased Santander for confirmation that they had received the funds. And I can see from 
Santanders system notes that they had an opportunity to confirm the funds had been 
received by them before they were made available, and I think this wouldve reduced the 
anxiety Miss K experienced. 
Miss K also wants the way Santander handled her complaint to be considered. But our 
service is unable to consider the way a business handles a customer complaint as 
complaints handling isnt a regulated activity. So, Im unable to factor this into any award I 
think would be appropriate.
Miss K has also explained she was unable to invest the funds as she intended, and this led 
to a financial loss for her. But Ive seen no evidence to show the opportunity Miss K says she 
missed out on, or the loss this created. And from the banking activity Santander have shown 
me, I can see that Miss K didnt make any investments using the funds until 16 April, ten days after the funds were available for her to spend. If Miss K had an immediate need to 
invest the funds, I wouldve expected this to have been done sooner. And as Miss K has 
since made investments using the funds, Im unable to say she lost her opportunity to do so.
Santander have offered Miss K £100 to recognise the inconvenience and anxiety she was 
caused, due to the wait times she experienced and the lack of information she was provided. 
And considering the above, I think this offer is a fair one and in line with what I wouldve 
awarded, had it not already been made.
I think it adequately compensates Miss K for the upset shes been caused by the situation, 
while also recognised Santander were acting in good faith to protect her account and the fact 
Miss K was able to make investments once the funds had been cleared. So, I dont think 
Santander need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman