DRN-3169148
The complaint
Miss W complains that Intrum UK Ltd (Intrum) has treated her unfairly and harassed her to 
pay a non-priority debt at a time when she was on a reduced income.
The complaint relates to a debt which stemmed from a catalogue account with a company 
that for the purposes of this decision I'll call E.
Intrum was previously known by another name but for the purposes of this decision I will 
refer to it as Intrum throughout.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional decision 
which I've set out again below. In my provisional decision I explained why I was minded to 
not uphold Miss W's complaint. I invited both parties to let me have anything response they 
thought was relevant.
Miss W had a catalogue account with E. As Miss W had fallen behind with payments 
E sold the accounts to Intrum on 26 July 2016 at the time of the sale the balance of 
the account was £916.50. Miss W queried the balance at the time as she felt it 
should be £828. Intrum asked E to provide statements showing Miss W's balance, it 
was shown to be £906.50 on 23 August 2016, this took into account two £5 credits 
which had been received in the meantime.
At the time Miss W had a debt management plan in place. So, her account was 
looked after by Intrum's debt management department  this means, it dealt with the 
debt charity and not with Miss W directly.
In October 2017 the debt charity let Intrum know that Miss W had stopped making 
payments. So Intrum moved her account back to its normal collections process. In 
November 2017 Miss W advised Intrum that the debt charity would be dealing with 
her account again and so the account was moved back to the debt Management 
department and stayed there until February 2019, when the debt charity once again 
let Intrum know that Miss W had stopped making payments. Miss W made 
arrangements to pay directly with Intrum after this.
Miss W made and subsequently cancelled multiple arrangements to pay, between 
February 2019 and bringing her complaint to us. However, Miss W still made some 
payments towards her account during that time.
In January 2021 Miss W was unwell and was unable to work due to her illness, as a 
result of this she missed some of her arranged payments. Miss W says that during 
the time she was unwell Intrum harassed her to pay the debt by calling her daily. She 
complained to Intrum but it didn't agree it had done anything wrong. It said it only 
contacted her when she had broken arrangements to pay and it was entitled to do so 
to be able to collect the debt. It also said it hadn't been aware of her illness prior to 
her complaint and explained it has a customer care team that deals with customers 
who have extenuating circumstances. It invited her to let it know if you wanted 
information part of that team to assess
Miss W was unhappy with Intrum's answer and so brought her complaint to this 
service, she said that to resolve matters she would like all interest and charges to be 
removed from her account.
Our investigator looked into a complaint but didn't uphold it, in summary he said: no 
interest or charges had been added to the account since Intrum purchased it from E. 
And Intrum's contact with Miss W was fair and within the rules set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Miss W disagreed she thought that Intrum should make a goodwill gesture to reduce 
her death. He said other businesses she had dealt with during the same time had 
treated her better. The matter is now been passed to me to decide.
What I've provisionally decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those 
issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, I given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having 
done so I have to tell Miss W that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here and for broadly the same reasons, I've expanded on these below.
Interest and charges
Intrum has provided statements from E showing that when it purchased Miss W's 
account the balance outstanding was £916.50. I've also seen the transactions on the 
account shown up until 21 April 2021, Miss W had made payments towards the 
account of £397.19, leaving the remaining balance, at that time of £529.31. I can see 
all of the payments have been applied correctly and based on this I'm satisfied the 
outstanding balance is correct and Intrum has not added any interest or charges to 
the account since it purchased it. So, I can't ask it to remove something that's not 
there.
Contact and harassment
Miss W has provided medical notes from her doctor to show she was signed off as 
unfit to work from January 2021 to April 2021, she has said Intrum harassed her 
during this time with its constant calls and emails chasing payment. She says as she 
wasn't working her income was affected and therefore so was her ability to pay.
Intrum has provided contact logs to show when it has had contact with Miss W 
throughout the time it has owned her account. I can see that contact from it relates to 
times when Miss W's arrangements to pay have been broken.
Looking at the specific time Miss W complains about I have seen the following:
Miss W had an arrangement in place that was broken on 22 December 2020, 
following this Intrum sent Miss W a letter two days later advising her the arrangement 
had been broken. As it hadn't heard from her, it attempted to call her on 4 and 5 
January 2021, both times it reached an answer phone. It emailed her on 22 January 2021, and she set up a new arrangement on the same day stop Intrum sent a letter 
to Miss W confirming the arrangement.
On 25 January 2021 Miss W cancelled the arrangement. I can see Intrum emailed 
her on the same day. And on the following day emailed her and called her. The call 
connected but Miss W hung up. However, she did set up a new arrangement on the 
same day. Intrum sent her a letter confirming the arrangement. This arrangement 
stayed in place until 23 March 2021 when Miss W cancelled it.
Following the arrangement being broken I can see Intrum called Miss W on 23, 24, 
25 and 26 March 2021. It was then, Miss W emailed it and let it know her 
circumstances. All correspondence after this was in relation to Miss W's complaint.
Miss W has provided this service with lots of information supporting her 
circumstances, but she hasn't been able to show that she made Intrum aware of 
them at the time. So, Im persuaded it was unaware of her circumstances before her 
email to it on 26 March 2021.
I understand Miss W would rather Intrum didn't contact her  and she has 
undoubtedly found its communication upsetting. So, I can see she feels harassed. 
But the debt is owed by Miss W, and Intrum was unaware at the time, of its contact to 
recover the debt, of her circumstances. And I'm not persuaded that the amount or the 
content of Intrum's communications were inappropriate  or amounted to harassment 
in the circumstances.
Had Miss W made Intrum aware of her circumstances sooner I would have expected 
it to do something different  and it has said it would have  but as it was unaware it 
couldn't act. Because of this I can't fairly say Intrum has done anything wrong and so 
won't be asking it to do anything to put things right for Miss W here. I'm pleased to 
hear that Miss W is better now. But if things change in the future, she should keep 
Intrum updated so it's customer care team can help.
Intrum responded to my provisional decision saying it had no further comments to add.
Miss W also responded, in summary she said:
She had provided evidence to show Intrum were aware 
She provided evidence of medical history and this hasn't been taken into 
consideration any of the reviews. 
She requested Intrum consider a goodwill gesture reduction for continued 
harassment of vulnerable customer.
Her complaint had not been taken seriously 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've carefully considered the comments from Miss W, along with all of the evidence and 
arguments available to me. Having done so I have to tell Miss W these haven't changed my 
mind and I won't be upholding her complaint, I'll explain. 
I think it might be useful first for me to set out that my remit here, is to see if a business has 
done something wrong, and if it has then I need to decide how it's best for it to put things 
right. It is not for me to ask a business to make a gesture of goodwill, where it hasn't done 
anything wrong.As I explained in my provisional decision, I have seen no evidence to show Intrum were 
aware of Miss W's circumstances relating to her health before she complained to it on 26 
March 2021. Miss W has provided lots of evidence to support her circumstances but has not 
provided anything that persuades me Intrum knew about them prior to her complaint to it. 
Because of this, I can't fairly say Intrum should have acted any differently than it did. So, it 
follows, as I found no wrongdoing on Intrum's part, I can't fairly ask it to reduce Miss W's 
balance. 
I understand Miss W strength of feeling and would like to reassure her that her complaint 
has been taken seriously. And I know Miss W will be disappointed with this outcome. But my 
decision ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Intrum can do for her.
My final decision
for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman