DRN-2273235
The complaint
Mr R complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse), trading as Land Rover Financial
Services, retracted a settlement offer theyd made.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in July 2020. An extract from that decision is set out below.
Mr R has at times been represented by his son but for ease, and because Mr R is named on
the finance agreement, I will refer to Mr R throughout this complaint.
Mr R took receipt of a new high cost car in July 2018. He financed the deal through a hire
purchase agreement with Black Horse.
He had problems with that car and Black Horse agreed to allow him to reject it. They
provided a settlement offer in May 2019 in which they said they would refund the £30,000
deposit; pay Mr R £12,384.96 to compensate him for the loss of use hed experienced; pay
Mr R £1,665.69 in respect of the loss of enjoyment hed experienced and compensate him to
the tune of £300 in respect of the distress and inconvenience hed suffered. They also
offered to refund the £80 fee Mr R would have paid to have his cherished number plate
exchanged. The total refund once interest was added was £47,260.99.
But the manufacturer offered a replacement vehicle, of a higher specification, on a nil
balance invoice basis. They explained this would mean that the new car would be supplied
at no cost and the finance payment would remain the same. So, Mr R therefore asked Black
Horse what the refund would be if he chose that option.
In September 2019 Black Horse told Mr R hed receive about £14  15,000 which would
include payments for his loss of use of the car but exclude the deposit. So, Mr R proceeded
with the new deal.
But in October 2019 Black Horse wrote to him again. They said theyd made a mistake and
that that they couldnt offer a payment for loss of use as the car had been returned having
completed 16,900 miles. They said the new refund would consist of a payment of £4,330.80 
for loss of enjoyment; £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by
having to return his car for repairs and £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused when they provided him with the wrong settlement figure. The
settlement also included an £80 payment for the cherished number plate exchange.
Mr R was upset with Black Horses change of heart. He thought they should honour their
initial offer of over £14,000 and he therefore referred his complaint to this service where our
investigator provided an opinion.
The investigator didnt think it would be fair to suggest Black Horse honour the offer as it had
clearly been a mistake. He understood from conversations hed had with Mr Rs son that the
family were going to buy the car that replaced this one anyway, so he didnt think there was
evidence theyd been particularly inconvenienced. He thought the offer Black Horse had
made was reasonable in the circumstances and he didnt think they needed to take any
further action.
Mr R disagreed with the investigator. He thought the offer for distress and inconvenience
was far too low and he insisted the business should honour their earlier offer. He therefore
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view and I think Black Horse need to do more to
remedy this situation. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into
complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
I can see that Black Horse accepted rejection of the car, so I wont consider the issues
surrounding that rejection in any further detail.
I will, however, consider the redress that Black Horse should pay Mr R in respect of that
rejection.
I dont think its reasonable to expect Black Horse to honour the offer they made in
September 2019 and that they confirmed in writing later. Theyve explained that was a
mistake and I dont think it would be fair to hold them to that settlement. But their withdrawal 
of the offer has had an impact on Mr R, and I think its right for them to compensate him for
that.
When a company agrees to reject a car we would expect them to refund the consumers
deposit and some of the finance instalments paid, if there was evidence of the consumer
experiencing a loss of use. Wed ask the business to add interest to this payment as the
customer would have been deprived of that money.
Wed also expect the business to consider a payment for any loss of enjoyment and
compensation for any distress and inconvenience that had been experienced.
So, Ill consider each of those points in detail:the deposit
The manufacturers offer was made on the basis of a nil balance invoice and Black Horse
explained to Mr R that meant he wouldnt have to pay anymore on his agreement, but he
wouldnt be entitled to receive his deposit back.
This was apparently because the new car was a more expensive model.
So, Im not persuaded that the deposit needed to be returned.
loss of use
Mr R returned his car after about 15 months and having completed about 16,900. Thats
significantly higher than average mileage and more than the annual mileage allowable under
the finance agreement. So, I dont think Black Horse were wrong to suggest hed had
adequate use from the car, and I dont think they needed to provide a refund of any of the
instalments.
loss of enjoyment
Black Horse have currently offered a payment of £4,330.80 in relation to loss of enjoyment.
Mr R experienced many issues with his car and had to return it frequently. Ive seen, for
instance, that there were problems with the rear lights; hazard lights; lumber pad inflation;
wheels; vibrations from the rear of the car; rattling from screens; and audio and camera
faults. I think those sorts of issues would have impaired Mr Rs enjoyment of the car, but I
think compensation that equated to about two and half monthly instalments was reasonable
in the circumstances.
distress and inconvenience
Black Horse have offered £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by faults with the
car and theyve offered a further £100 in relation to distress and inconvenience caused by
their mistaken offer.
Black Horse hasnt in my view really thought about the upset and inconvenience that Mr R
has suffered. Thats clearly been substantial. And given the value of the vehicle Mr R would
have high expectations of what his experience should be. Hes not had anything like that. He
was led to believe that hed receive far more from Black Horse than he is now being offered
and whilst I understand he may have bought the car anyway, I dont think that fact alleviates
the distress that will have been caused. So, I think awarding him the highest amount under
our range that covers substantial non-financial loss is right. Black Horse should pay Mr R
£2,000 in respect of the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell
Black Horse Limited to:
Pay Mr R £4,330.80 to compensate him for the loss of enjoyment hes experienced;
Pay Mr R £2,000 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
£80 in recognition of the DVLA fund to retain his cherished number plate.
Black Horse didnt provide any further information for me to consider, but Mr R did.  Amongst those further comments he clarified a few issues for me and explained that the 
replacement car wasnt a higher specification but was exactly the same as the one it 
replaced. He also explained that there had been a delay in receiving the offer initially made 
by the business over the phone in May 2019, and before a written copy was received 
clarifying the change, he had be in contact with the manufacturer and agreed the 
replacement. He said this had resulted in a significant financial impact. Mr R was unsure 
about the way in which I had considered lack of use. He provided his own calculation of that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr R for clarifying that the replacement car was of exactly the same 
specification. That hadnt been clear in the information on file, but I dont think it changes the 
treatment of the deposit. As the new agreement wasnt changing, the initial deposit was 
being used in the same way and was, in effect, reducing the payments Mr R would make on 
his agreement. Im still not persuaded the deposit should be refunded.
I understand Mr Rs clarification of how the original offer was made but, as I set out in my 
provisional decision, I think Black Horse made a mistake there and that it would not be fair to 
hold them to that inaccurate calculation.
They should, however, compensate Mr R for the impact that mistake has had on him and, 
having considered Mr Rs additional responses, I still think the redress I set out in my 
provisional decision is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Im asking Black Horse to put things right by paying the redress I set out in provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and to tell Black Horse 
Limited to:
pay Mr R £4,330.80 to compensate him for the loss of enjoyment hes experienced;
pay Mr R £2,000 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
pay Mr R £80 in recognition of the DVLA fund to retain his cherished number plate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman