DRN-2369932
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr W have complained about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) 
has handled a claim made under their Buildmark policy.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr W noticed some cracks in the internal corners of their newly built home in 
2017. They initially asked the builder to rectify the issue, which it did by filling and painting 
the affected areas, but the cracks continued to grow.
A claim was made under section 3 of the Buildmark policy, but NHBC declined the claim 
saying it had identified the cause to be thermal expansion which wasnt covered.
Mrs C and Mr W disagreed with NHBCs assessment of their claim and raised a complaint. 
They got an independent structural engineer to look at the problem in their home and 
produce a report. Theyve said that report shows the movement was greater than it should 
have been and that although the cause was thermal expansion, there was also a structural 
concern. Mrs C and Mr W referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
the available evidence all showed the likely cause of the movement was thermal expansion, 
which Mrs C and Mr Ws Buildmark policy didnt cover, and that NHBC wasnt therefore 
being unreasonable by applying the exclusion and declining the claim.
As Mrs C and Mr W didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how frustrating these issues must be for Mrs C and Mr W. They purchased 
a new build property in part due to the peace of mind of an NHBC policy. But having 
considered all the information, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When a claim is made under a Buildmark policy, its for NHBC to either accept the claim, or 
show that one of the exclusions in the policy applies. In this case NHBC has relied on the 
exclusion in section 3 of the policy, under What NHBC will not pay for. This states that 
damage caused by shrinkage, thermal movement or movement between different types of 
materials isnt covered.
Building warranties arent designed to cover every defect with or all types of damage to a 
new build home. Rather, they only provide cover for damage or defects as defined within a 
policy. 
As Im satisfied that the policy doesnt provide cover for damage caused by thermal 
movement, I now need to consider what the experts say caused the cracks in Mrs C and 
Mr Ws home.
The investigation report NHBC has provided says:
The cause of the cracking to the internal blockwork wall corners is due to shrinkage 
of the blockwork combined with the cyclic effects of thermal expansion. It further 
states that shrinkage is not a progressive structural issue and no construction defects 
were observed by the Engineer.
As thermal expansion means that building materials expand and contract over the seasons 
of the year when the property is exposed to hot and cold weather, and these temperature 
changes can lead to cracking of internal walls, I dont find it unreasonable for NHBC to have 
concluded that this wasnt a structural concern.
However, Ive also considered the report from the independent engineer who visited the 
property, which states:
whilst the vertical cracking within the external corners of the property has likely been 
a result of thermal and moisture movements, which are greater than normally 
anticipated movements likely due to the type of blockwork used and poor onsite 
storage resulting in saturationThe movements have resulted in a disconnection, 
which should not occur if sufficient movement joints had been installed during 
constructionThe disconnection is a structural concern.
There are therefore two differing expert opinions here. And I have to determine which is 
more reliable and whether, on balance, I think the shrinkage has been caused by a defect as 
defined within the policy or not. Because under the terms of Mrs C and Mr Ws policy, 
NHBCs liability is only in respect of physical damage caused by one of the defects listed in 
the policy booklet.
Having considered all the investigation reports and photographs of the cracking, Im not 
persuaded that the damage is as a result of a defect defined within the policy. I say this 
because, although the report from the independent engineer says this is likely, it doesnt give 
any supporting evidence for reaching that conclusion. A follow up email from the engineer 
also doesnt explain why he has concluded that the cracking has reached excess levels due 
to a lack of movement joints. He again says he thinks this is likely, but I dont think I can 
safely rely on those findings due to a lack of evidence to support them.
NHBC has also given suggestions as to why the cracks may be in excess of the usual size 
for thermal movement, such as expansion often being greatest on south westerly facing 
masonry walls, but this being unlikely to continue beyond small levels of cyclic movement 
and therefore not being related to any structural defect. So I dont think theres enough 
information for me to safely conclude that theres a defect here as defined in the policy, 
which would mean NHBC hadnt been fair in applying the policy exclusion.
It follows, therefore, that I dont think NHBC has acted unreasonably in applying the policy 
exclusion  and while I appreciate why Mrs C and Mr W will be unhappy with this decision, 
Im afraid I wont be requiring NHBC to do anything further.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C and Mr W, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman