DRN-3713126
The complaint
Ms B has complained about the way QIC Europe Ltd dealt with a claim she made under her 
car insurance policy. Shes unhappy with the service she received and the total loss 
settlement it paid.
All reference to the insurer QIC includes its agents. 
What happened
Ms B bought a car insurance policy with QIC through a broker by phone after obtaining 
quotes online through a comparison website. 
In February 2022 Ms Bs car was damaged in an incident and she made a claim to her 
insurer, QIC. 
An engineer on behalf of QIC said it wasnt economical to repair Ms Bs car. The market 
value the engineer arrived at was £16,956. However, Ms Bs policy with QIC said the most it 
would pay was up to the market value or the value specified in the policy schedule. As Ms 
Bs policy schedule listed the value of her car at £12,320, this is the sum QIC relied on to 
settle Ms Bs total loss claim. 
Ms B complained to QIC. She was unhappy with the length of time it took for QIC to reach its 
decision. Over two weeks after the incident, Ms Bs car was moved from the first approved 
repairer (AR) to a second AR for further assessment. Ms B said she hadnt been provided 
with a courtesy car by the first AR and was unhappy with the lack of updates. 
Ms B didnt agree the settlement QIC intended to pay was fair.
In response, QIC said the policy clearly sets out what it will pay in the event of a total loss 
claim and so it didnt increase the settlement sum offered. 
QIC said the reason it moved Ms Bs car to another AR was because a ramp was needed in 
order to fully inspect possible damage underneath to Ms Bs car before reaching a decision 
as to whether it could repair the car or not. QIC said it isnt guaranteed that a courtesy car 
will be available as this is subject to availability.
QIC said the total loss settlement it intended to pay was correct and in line with the policy 
terms.
Ms B remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our Investigator thought the term QIC relied on under the policy was unfair. And she thought 
it unreasonable for Ms B to have no access to a courtesy car for 17 days while it was under 
assessment with the first AR. 
So the Investigator recommended QIC increase the total loss settlement to the engineers 
valuation (with interest) as this was within the range of the motor trade guides shed checked 
for a car of the same make, model, age, condition and mileage as Ms Bs at the time of loss. 
She also recommended QIC pay Ms B £170 as the equivalent of £10 a day for loss of use in 
line with our approach. This was for the 17 days Ms Bs car was awaiting assessment at the 
first AR - and Ms B wasnt provided with use of a courtesy car during this time. 
Ms B said QIC had caused a delay in paying an interim settlement to her. She said shed 
taken out a loan to buy a replacement car which she wanted fees attached to it to be 
considered as financial loss caused by QICs delay. But the Investigator found that QIC had 
been clear as to what verification documents it needed before it could settle Ms Bs claim. As 
Ms B hadnt provided them until after she applied for the loan, the Investigator didnt find QIC 
should be responsible for any financial loss here. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused by QICs decision to pay a much lower 
settlement sum, the Investigator thought QIC should pay compensation of £300.
Ms B accepted the Investigators recommendations. QIC said it disagrees in its entirety. It 
hasnt provided further details. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of the incident are that Ms B accidentally drove over an unlit concrete 
base of a bollard in the ground. As QIC was made aware of this from the initial notification, I 
think there was some responsibility for it to ensure Ms Bs car was taken to a suitable AR in 
order for her claim to be dealt with as efficiently as possible.
17 days later, the first AR reported that in order to assess possible further damage from 
underneath the car, it would need to be moved to another AR with appropriate equipment to 
investigate, before a decision about the car could be made. I think the areas of damage were 
known to QIC when Ms B reported the incident. So I think the delay here could have been 
prevented if Ms Bs car had been taken to a suitable AR for assessment at the outset. 
Notes provided by QIC show that that Ms B asked for a courtesy car, but the first AR didnt 
have an available courtesy car until the following month. While I appreciate there is no 
guarantee of a courtesy car, overall I dont think Ms B was treated fairly here. I can see that 
when Ms B complained about the delay and lack of update about her car, the second AR 
immediately provided a courtesy car. 
So in this case I think a fair outcome is for QIC to pay Ms B the equivalent rate of £10 a day 
for loss of use for 17 days while her car was being assessed at the first AR - and no courtesy 
car was made available to her. 
Ms Bs policy was sold to her through a broker. So my decision doesnt relate to the sale of 
the policy. QIC is the underwriter of the policy - so is responsible for the contract and any 
claim made under it. 
QIC describes Ms Bs policy as a market value policy. The majority of standard motor 
insurance policies in the market are market value policies. In other words, most insurers 
provide policy wording which is very similar in relation to paying a market value. Most 
insurers say the most it will pay in the event of a total loss claim is the market value of the 
car at the time of loss. Underwriters may say that they take into account the value of the car 
- among other things - when deciding a premium.
Ms Bs policy with QIC provides a definition as follows:
Market value  the cost of replacing your vehicle with another of a similar make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as at the time of the loss or damage, up to the 
value stated in your policy schedule.The part; up to the value stated in your policy schedule is an unusual term for market value 
policies. We asked QIC to provide a recording of the call when Ms B applied for the policy, 
but this hasnt been provided in a format we can access. 
From QICs case notes, it listened to the call and said the broker told Ms B the value of her 
car was around £12,300 to which Ms B replied; yeah, probably. Yeah, I guessed when I 
bought that as well. I havent got a clue.
The policy schedule lists both the purchase price of Mr Bs car - and an estimated value - as 
the same, being £12,320. 
Ms Bs policy with QIC is - as it describes - a market value policy, not an agreed value policy. 
By applying QICs definition, only QIC benefit, not Ms B. If the market value of Ms Bs car is 
above the amount shown on the schedule - which is described as an estimate -  QIC only 
need pay the lower amount. If the market value is below that stated on the schedule, again, 
QIC only need pay the lower amount. 
Crucially in this case, QIC has confirmed that had Ms Bs car been estimated at a market 
value of £16,956 when she bought the policy - it wouldnt have charged her any more for 
cover. So QIC hasnt been prejudiced by the lower estimate provided for Ms Bs car. 
So I think QIC should pay the difference between the interim payment it made of £12,320 
and the engineers valuation of £16,956. Having checked the main motor trade guides for a 
fair valuation of Ms Bs car in line with our approach, Im satisfied this sum is within the 
range. QIC should pay interest on the difference from the date the claim was declared a total 
loss to the date it pays. 
QIC has shown that it asked Ms B for verification documents on 8 March 2022 in order to 
pay Ms B the (lower) total loss settlement. I understand Ms B says she wasnt sure which 
party she was dealing with at times. But I think the messages sent subsequently in March 
2022 and April 2022 were clear enough and consistent with the requirements QIC (and its 
agents acting on its behalf) needed to settle the claim. 
Ms B provided the remaining information to QIC on 27 July 2022 and it promptly issued 
payment to follow within three to five working days. So I dont think QIC caused a delay here. 
It therefore follows that I dont think QWIC is responsible for any financial losses from Ms Bs 
decision to take out a loan in June 2022 to buy a replacement car. 
However, I think QICs handling of the claim with the first AR and its decision to pay a much 
lower settlement caused Ms B unnecessary distress and inconvenience - and reduced the 
amount available to her to buy a replacement car. For this I think QIC should pay Ms B £300 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to do the following:
Pay the difference between the market value of £16,956 and £11,370 which QIC 
paid (after deducting the excess) as an interim settlement. 
Pay interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date 
of QICs decision to settle as a total loss (8 March 2022) to the date it pays. 
Pay £170 for loss of use for 17 days.
Pay compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms 
B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman