DRN-2507295
The complaint
Miss T complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General 
(L&G) has handled a claim for subsidence at her property.
What happened
Miss T contacted L&G to report some cracks at her home. L&G accepted the claim and 
following some investigation, the cause was identified as subsidence due to a tree in a 
neighbouring garden.
Unhappy with the way the claim was progressing, Miss T raised a complaint with L&G. It 
said the service its agents had provided couldve been better, and offered Miss T £250 
compensation in recognition of this. Miss T didnt accept the compensation offered and 
referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and thought L&Gs offer was fair. As Miss T didnt 
agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that the offer put forward by L&G is fair and 
reasonable, for the following reasons:
The claim was first officially reported in January 2019 and L&Gs appointed agents 
validated the claim and conducted some investigations in March and April 2019. 
Following these investigations, the tree in the neighbouring propertys garden was 
identified as the cause of the subsidence. It was anticipated that the tree would be 
removed by August 2019 and repairs would be completed by February 2020. The 
proposed timescales werent unreasonable.
Delays occurred, mainly due to difficulty in obtaining the neighbours permission to 
remove the tree and due to a new occupant moving into the neighbouring property. 
Both parties chased the neighbours for a response, but authorisation to remove the 
tree wasnt received until January 2020. I appreciate this is a year after the claim was 
officially registered. However, subsidence claims can take a considerable length of 
time to deal with. And I think most of the delays here couldnt have been avoided and 
were out of L&Gs control.
Although L&Gs agents did cause some delays, I have to consider what the impact of 
those delays wouldve been on Miss T. And I agree with our investigator that even if 
the neighbours had been chased more regularly, it doesnt mean matters wouldve 
necessarily been resolved sooner. Alternative solutions were considered around six 
months after the neighbours were contacted, which isnt an unreasonable length of 
time  because wed expect an insurer to exhaust the less invasive options first  
such as removal of the tree. And the tree has now been removed. So I dont think the 
impact of the delay was substantial in this case.
Miss T has said the issues shes complained about have caused her a great deal of 
stress and have made her ill. Im genuinely sorry to hear this and I know this has all 
been very upsetting for her. Shes also said her claim couldve been dealt with more 
swiftly, but Im afraid I dont agree. Its common for these types of claims  
particularly those involving vegetation at a neighbouring property  to take a long 
time to deal with. And I think much of the delay here was caused by the neighbours 
unwillingness to remove the tree.
Miss T has also said that she spent excessive amounts of time chasing the various 
parties involved. I do not doubt any of what Miss T has said. But I do think £250 
compensation is a fair reflection of the trouble and upset that was caused here, up 
until May 2020, and for the delays which were within L&Gs control. So Im afraid I 
wont be requiring it to offer any more compensation than it already has.
My final decision
Im really sorry to disappoint Miss T, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman