DRN-3542890
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr T complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid their 
travel insurance claim in full. 
What happened
Mrs B and Mr T bought a Platinum branded annual travel insurance policy in January 2020.
The policy was provided by URV.
Mrs B and Mr T went on a multi-destination holiday, booked through a travel agent. They
were due to be abroad from 5 February 2020 until 6 April 2020. Mrs B and Mr T didnt stay at
their first intended destination (which Ill call H). This was because they said their travel
agent advised them to only transit through H instead due to riots and Covid-19.
While at their second destination (which Ill call N), the World Health Organisation declared
Covid-19 as a pandemic on 11 March 2020 and, on 17 March 2020 the UKs Foreign,
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth
Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel abroad due to Covid-19.
Based on the information available to me, on the same day (17 March 2020) the government
at Mrs B and Mr Ts third intended destination (which Ill call T) announced quarantine
restrictions which meant Mrs B and Mr T would have been unable to travel onwards to their
fourth intended destination (which Ill call B) from 27 March 2020 to 3 April 2020 as theyd
planned, or to then return to N from B to catch their original return flight back to the UK on 5
April 2020. On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists abroad to return to the
UK.
Mrs B and Mr T didnt travel to T or to B, and instead remained in N. Mrs B and Mr Ts
original return flight from N to the UK on 5 April 2020 was subsequently cancelled, and they
remained in N until they could get a repatriation flight back to the UK on 29 April 2020.
Mrs B and Mr T made a claim under their policy with URV for the following:
the unused costs of their trip to H;
the unused costs of their trips to T and B;
their additional costs for extending their stay in N;
the cost of their new flight back to the UK from N after their original intended return
date.
URV initially said none of Mrs B and Mr Ts claim was covered under their policy. URV
subsequently paid Mrs B and Mr T £544.21 under Section B10  Catastrophe of their policy
cover. URV said this was calculated as 9 nights additional accommodation at N from 28
March 2020 until Mrs B and Mr Ts original intended return date of 6 April 2020.
Unhappy, Mrs B and Mr T brought their complaint to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs B and Mr Ts
complaint in part. URV didnt agree with our investigators opinion so their complaint was 
referred to me. I made my provisional decision about this complaint in May 2022. In it, I said:
Ive considered and will address each of the costs which Mrs B and Mr T have claimed for in
turn.
The unused costs of the trip to H
Mrs B and Mr T didnt stay in H on the advice of their travel agent. Mrs B and Mr T say this
was because of riots and Covid-19.
On the date of the planned trip to H, the FCDO wasnt advising against travel to H due to
either riots, or because of Covid-19. The concerns of Mrs B and Mr Ts travel agent arent
something which triggers cover under their policy, and their policy specifically excludes
claims for disinclination to travel, insurrection and certain acts of civil commotion.
So, this part of Mrs B and Mr Ts claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their
policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly direct
URV to pay this aspect of their claim.
The unused costs of the trips to T and B
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly, and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain
things  including excluded risks.
Page 1 of the IPID, which summarises the cover available under Mrs B and Mr Ts policy
with URV, says:
Are there any restrictions on cover? 
! Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your
destination.
The policy terms and conditions, at page 12, under the heading What is not covered 
applicable to all sections of the policy say:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from: 
14. Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from
which you are travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
Page 17 of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading Section B1  Curtailment
charges sets out the cover available if a policyholder has to curtail their trip. The policy
defines curtail as the cutting short of your trip by your early return home. Mrs B and Mr T
didnt cut their trip to T and B short by returning to the UK early, so they dont satisfy thepolicy criteria for a valid claim under this section of cover. Neither did Mrs B and Mr T return
home early from N. Instead, they remained in N beyond their original planned return date.
But Mrs B and Mr T didnt travel to T and B at all. In these specific circumstances, I think it
would be fair and reasonable to consider this part of Mrs B and Mr Ts overall trip as having
been, in effect, curtailed/cut short because they were unable to visit T and B as theyd
planned.
Ive gone on to consider the circumstances in which URV will pay for certain irrecoverable,
unused costs under this section of the policy. These circumstances are set out as specific,
listed insured events:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease or complications arising as a direct result
of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the curtailment
could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you purchased this
insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
4. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due
to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood,
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
Our investigator concluded that the quarantine restrictions imposed in T meant that Mrs B
and Mr T would have a valid claim under sub-section 2 of the policy wording which Ive
quoted above referring to being quarantined. I dont agree. I dont think that a requirement
to quarantine if a policyholder travels to another country is the same as being prevented
from travelling because the policyholder has already been put into quarantine. Mrs B and Mr
T's inability to travel to T and B didnt arise because they were put into quarantine or were
being quarantined in N.
So, I dont think Mrs B and Mr Ts trip to T and B was affected by any of the listed, insured
reasons which Ive set out above.
However, I have an overriding remit to make a decision based on what I think is fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. Ive taken into account the relevant law and
industry guidelines and I dont think a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions
leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
At the time Mrs B and Mr T were due to travel to T and B, the FCDO was advising against all
but essential international travel, and the FCDO had also advised all British travellers who
were abroad at the time to return to the UK. The policy exclusion outlined on page 12 of the
terms and conditions excludes cover under any section of the policy if a policyholder is
travelling against FCDO advice. This means, based on the information Ive seen, I think itsmost likely that Mrs B and Mr T wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms and
conditions at all if theyd travelled to T and then B on 27 March 2020 as planned.
But, under the terms and conditions of Mrs B and Mr Ts policy, curtailment (or, in this case,
what I think is the effective curtailment of part of their overall trip) due to changes in FCDO
guidance also isnt covered. This means Mrs B and Mr T were left in a situation where they
had no cover if they travelled on to T and B, but they also had no cover if they didnt. I dont
think this was made sufficiently clear to Mrs B and Mr T in their policy documentation.
Mrs B and Mr T would need to have read the full policy terms and conditions in order to
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this information
was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the
combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear to them.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mrs B and Mr T and
URV. I think its unlikely Mrs B and Mr T would have purchased this policy if they had
realised there was no cover if FCDO guidance changed after they bought the policy and/or
commenced their trip. And, Im satisfied that travel insurance policies provided by other
insurers which did cover such claims arising from changes to FCDO advice were available
on the market at the time Mrs B and Mr T bought their policy in January 2020. So, I think its
likely Mrs B and Mr T would have been able to buy alternative insurance which did cover the
circumstances they ultimately found themselves in.
Ive taken into account the comments which URV made in response to our investigators
view, but these dont change my provisional decision on this aspect of the complaint.
I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for URV to accept this
element of Mrs B and Mr Ts claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms and
conditions, and to consider their claim under Section B1 - Curtailment charges. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied these costs are not recoverable by Mrs B and Mr T from
another source.
I note that URV has already paid Mrs B and Mr T £544.21 under Section B10  Catastrophe
for additional accommodation costs in N. Having considered what this section of the policy
provides cover for, I think it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances for URV to make
this payment. Part of the payment relates to dates for which Mrs B and Mr T are also
claiming for unused accommodation costs when they were due to be visiting T and B. It
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mrs B and Mr T to receive a payment from URV for both
their unused and their additional accommodation costs on the same dates (as Mrs B and Mr
T would always have to have paid to stay somewhere abroad), and Section B10 of the policy
says a policyholder can only claim under either Section B1 or Section B10 (not both) for the
same event.
So, I think URV would be reasonably entitled to deduct the benefit already paid under
Section B10 for the period 28 March 2020 to 2 April 2020 from any benefit which it considers
Mrs B and Mr T might be entitled to under Section B1.
The additional costs of the extended stay in N
I appreciate that the situation which Mrs B and Mr T found themselves in was unexpected
and unprecedented, but no insurance policy covers every situation. An insurer is entitled to
decide what level of risk it wishes to accept in return for the payment of a premium.
The policy which Mrs B and Mr T bought simply doesnt cover additional accommodation
costs if a trip is extended in these circumstances. Ive reviewed every section of Mrs B andMr Ts policy, but they didnt have cover which would pay a benefit for this part of their claim.
The additional flight costs from N to the UK
Similarly, like most (if not all) travel insurance policies which were available on the market at
the time, Mrs B and Mr Ts policy doesnt provide cover for the cost of a new return flight in
these circumstances, where a trip was extended.
Id strongly suggest that Mrs B and Mr T make further enquiries with their travel agent to see
what, if any, legal obligations their travel agent might have to provide refunds to them under
the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018.
So, my provisional decision was that I upheld Mrs B and Mr Ts claim in part. 
Mrs B and Mr T accepted my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add. 
URV also replied and said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or additional evidence, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
URV must treat Mrs B and Mr Ts claim for the unused costs of their trip to T and B as 
covered under the curtailment section of their policy, and assess this part of the claim under 
the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs B and Mr Ts complaint and I direct Union 
Reiseversicherung AG to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman