DRN-3997209
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC has unreasonably refused to refund him £45 
made via a contactless payment which he says he never made. 
What happened
Mr K contacted Lloyds on 21 September 2022 saying he didnt recognise a contactless debit 
card payment on his account of £45. He also said he had not lost his debit card and that he 
still had the card in his possession.
 
Lloyds said on that basis given the transaction required the physical card to be presented it 
couldnt say it was an unauthorised payment therefore it wouldnt refund Mr K the £45. 
Mr K remained dissatisfied, so he brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think 
Lloyds has done anything wrong. Mr K didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
The rules which concern disputed transactions like this are called the Payment Service 
Regulations (PSRs). Under these rules a customer is deemed liable for any authorised 
transactions. Authorised under the PSRs means the following: 
A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for 
the purposes of this part only if the payer has given its consent to the execution of 
the payment transaction; or the execution of a series of payment transactions of 
which that payment transaction forms part.
Consent is also defined by the PSRs and it doesnt have the more usual meaning in 
everyday speech. It is as follows:
Such consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, 
agreed between the payer and its payment service provider.
The transaction here is a contactless card transaction. The form and manner, in which a 
customer makes a contactless payment is to present the physical card to the payment 
machine/terminal. For a contactless payment to be made the chip on the card needs to be 
present. Its generally not thought possible to copy the data held on the chip, and Ive no 
indication this is what happened here. So, I would say its more likely than not Mr Ks 
genuine card was used. Therefore, I consider the payment was both authorised and 
consented to under the PSRs.
Mr K is adamant that he didnt lose his card or indeed give it to someone else to use. Hes 
also adamant that he was at home the day on the date of this transaction and therefore 
didnt make this transaction. 
Its not unusual for some transactions to have a delay before being processed. That can be 
for numerous reasons even just Wi-Fi dropping at the time of the transaction or something 
similar. Its also not unusual for transactions to show on statements days after they were 
made, as the statement date is usually the date the merchant collects the transaction rather 
than when it was authorised. So, it may be possible that the date shown on Mr Ks statement 
might be incorrect by a day or two. Lloyds has shown me that it tried to ask questions of Mr 
K to discuss this, but Mr K declined to answer saying he didnt have time for this. 
Crucially it does appear from Mr Ks own evidence that he knows this merchant and that its 
a restaurant about 20 miles away from him. His sole argument is was that he was definitely 
at home that day as he had some contractors cutting down some trees. 
So, given the occasional delay issues with transactions hitting the statement; and given Mr K 
knew of this merchant but didnt visit that day; and given it was contactless payment which 
meant the physical card had to have been produced at the merchant, I consider its more 
likely than not that Mr K did indeed make this transaction but not on the day it said on his 
statement. Or failing that he gave his card to someone else on his behalf to make the 
transaction instead.
Therefore, I agree with Lloyds that as there was no point of compromise such as a lost or 
stolen card there is no duty on Lloyds given the requirements under the PSRs to refund Mr 
K this £45.
It has since transpired that following some further contact by Mr K after Lloyds sent us its file 
that Mr K has in any event been refunded £45.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman