DRN-2942390
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly treated his motor 
insurance policy as if it hadn't existed (known as voidance) and refused to pay a claim on his 
policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
In 2016 Mr H and his friend, who I'll refer to as Mr M, bought a car together. Mr Ms company 
paid the deposit for the car and the finance on it was in Mr Hs name. Mr H allowed Mr M to 
look after the car, including insuring it. In September 2018 Mr M applied for a policy for the 
car. When he did so he named Mr H as the sole policyholder and driver.
In December 2018 the police told Mr H his car had been involved in an accident. At that time 
it had been in the care of a garage doing some work on it in preparation to sell it. Mr H 
initially reported the incident as a theft but the police told him that no crime had been 
committed.
The car was a total loss. Mr H claimed on his policy. Admiral said that because of 
inaccuracies when taking out the policy it was refusing to pay the claim and voiding the 
policy. It also told Mr H he would need to pay it around £746 it had paid in dealing with the 
claim, which Mr H paid.
Mr H complained. Admiral didn't believe it had done anything wrong. But, as a goodwill 
gesture, it refunded Mr H around £647 he had repaid to it.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 7 July 2021. For ease 
I've copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy application process
The finance for the car in question was in Mr Hs name and I understand that it was his 
name that appeared on the cars V5 (log book) as its registered keeper. But Mr H had an 
agreement with Mr M whereby Mr M would drive the car and be responsible for its costs. 
And, initially at least, Mr M reimbursed Mr H for the finance repayments on a monthly basis, 
although I understand that in 2018 he fell behind with making those payments to Mr H.
Mr H was also happy to handover responsibility for insuring the car to Mr M. And, initially 
Mr M insured the car in his own name. But, in 2018 he decided to insure it in Mr Hs name 
saying Mr H was the sole driver on the policy. That was something Mr Hs agreement with 
Mr M allowed him to do.
In other words when taking out the Admiral policy in 2018 Mr M was acting as Mr Hs 
representative. So, in applying for the policy, Mr M had effectively stepped into Mr Hs shoes 
and so Mr Ms actions in doing so can be considered to be Mr Hs.
When Admiral was looking into the claim for the cars total loss it instructed investigators to 
interview Mr H and Mr M. Mr H told the investigator that in the two years hed owned the car, 
hed only ever driven it once. Mr M confirmed that he had use of the car regularly and had 
previously insured it in his own name. He told the investigator hed swapped the insurance 
into Mr Hs name because he wanted to use the no claims discount hed earned on this car 
on his other car. Mr M said he was insured to drive Mr Hs car under the driving other cars 
extension of the policy on his other car, so he didnt feel he needed his own separate policy 
for Mr Hs car. Considering everything hes said I think Mr Ms acknowledged that, while hed 
insured the car in Mr Hs name as the sole driver on the policy, he did so in the knowledge 
that Mr H had no intention to use the policy to cover him to drive the car.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Where a policyholder makes a mistake or doesn't answer an insurers questions accurately 
in the policy application process, that inaccuracy is known as a misrepresentation. And 
theres specific law - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) - which sets out what insurers may do when a consumers made a 
misrepresentation. CIDRA says that a consumer must take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. So I've first thought about whether Mr M  acting as representative of 
Mr H  made a misrepresentation.
Mr M applied for the policy through an online comparison site. And in the section about 
you, that is the person for whose benefit the policy was being applied for, Mr M entered 
Mr Hs details. But Mr M knew that Mr H had no intention of driving the car. Mr M didn't add 
another driver to the policy as a named driver. So he insured a car in the full knowledge that 
the policyholder had no real intention of driving it. I think thats a misrepresentation.
But even if that wasn't the case, the comparison site goes on to ask other questions like 
where the applicant keeps the car. Mr M said he was keeping the car at home, but as he 
was applying in Mr Hs name, using Mr Hs details, he effectively said the car was kept at 
Mr Hs home address. And that answer wasn't accurate. Mr M kept the car at his house, not 
at Mr Hs address. So in saying that the car was kept at Mr Hs address I don't think Mr M, 
on Mr Hs behalf, took reasonable care to answer the question correctly. So I think he made 
a misrepresentation.
Was it fair for Admiral to void Mr Hs policy?
In order for an insurer to have a remedy under CIDRA it needs to be able to show that, but 
for the misrepresentation, it wouldnt have entered into the contract (the policy) or would only 
have done so on different terms. In those circumstances CIDRA refers to the 
misrepresentation as a qualifying misrepresentation.
Our investigator said it was reasonable to think that Admiral could have added Mr M to 
Mr Hs policy as a named driver. And as Mr M otherwise accurately gave Mr Hs details, our 
investigator didn't think there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But I don't agree. 
That's because, if Mr M had answered the questions on the comparison site accurately, the 
risk Admiral was accepting and the contract it was offering would have changed significantly. 
Admiral would have known that Mr M was keeping the car at a different address, which is a 
significant risk factor for insurers when offering policies; Mr Ms driving history would be 
different to Mr Hs; and other details, such as Mr Ms employment etc would have affected 
the risk Mr M posed as a policyholder or named driver. And I have no doubt that would have affected the terms of any contract Admiral would have offered. So I'm satisfied that if Mr M 
hadn't made a misrepresentation the terms of the contract Admiral offered would have been 
different. It follows that Mr M - on Mr Hs behalf - made a qualifying misrepresentation.
In those circumstances, Admiral could apply the remedies CIDRA offered to it. Those 
remedies depend upon whether the misrepresentation was either: careless; or deliberate or 
reckless. In this case Mr M knew full well that it would be himself rather than Mr H that would 
be driving and looking after the car. He only put the insurance in Mr Hs name so he could 
use the NCD hed earned on this car for his other car. So, he purposefully gave inaccurate 
information, including where the car would be kept, when applying for the policy. And as 
those actions were undoubtedly intended to mislead I think it's fair that Admiral can treat the 
misrepresentation as deliberate. And in those circumstances CIDRA allows it to void the 
policy. That's what its done, and I think that was fair. It follows that I'm not going to instruct 
Admiral to take any further action.
For completeness I want to make clear that I don't think Mr H himself has personally 
engaged in any deliberate misrepresentation. I accept that the actions I've referred to above 
were all taken by Mr M and not Mr H. And Mr H wasn't aware of the answers Mr M was 
giving when applying for the policy. But, as I've said previously, Mr H had allowed Mr M to 
act for him, and as such in making a misrepresentation Mr Ms actions are attributable to 
Mr H. So while I have some sympathy with the position Mr H finds himself in, where he has 
no cover for a car he still owes finance on, and has a record of avoidance logged against 
him, I don't think that's because of anything Admiral did wrong.
Developments 
Admiral accepted my provisional decision, Mr H didn't. He said he did have an agreement 
with Mr M but didn't know Mr M had taken out a policy in his name. Mr H said Admiral should 
have had a duty to check with him that he was a genuine individual applying for the policy. 
He added that Admiral could have pursued the garage who had possession of his car when 
it was damaged. Hes also commented that it didn't prosecute Mr M. He said that if hed lied 
Admiral would have paid out on his policy but he was honest with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
As I said In my provisional decision I don't think Mr H deliberately misrepresented the 
position when taking the policy out. And I think he did answer most of Admirals questions 
honestly when it was looking into the claim. But his position has shifted somewhat and hes 
implying that Mr M didn't have his permission to take out a policy in his name. If that's the 
case and Mr M entirely misrepresented everything to do with the policy, and in fact simply 
impersonated Mr H in order to secure it, then I think most insurers would consider that to be 
a fraudulent act. 
But, if that was the case and Mr M didn't give Mr H the permission to take out the policy in 
Mr Hs name, then Mr H had no reason to claim from it. Instead he should have been clear 
that - as the policy was taken out without his knowledge or agreement - then Admiral should 
dismiss the claim for Mr Hs damaged car and cancel the policy because of Mr Ms 
misrepresentation. But Mr H didn't do that. Instead he submitted a claim to Admiral and 
asked it to pay him the value of his car. If Mr H thought the policy was taken out fraudulently, 
then it would seem that he was being complicit with that fraud by trying to claim from a policy he was fully aware was fraudulent. But the very fact Mr H did submit a claim supports the 
position that he allowed Mr M to act for him in insuring the car.  I remain of the view that 
Mr M made a misrepresentation when he did so.
It follows that I remain satisfied that it was reasonable for Admiral to refuse to pay Mr Hs 
claim and to cancel the policy as if it hadn't existed. And as it cancelled the policy fairly, it 
had no reason to pursue the garage for Mr Hs losses as it had no liability to Mr H as the 
policy didn't cover him.
For completeness Ill add that Mr H has implied that Admiral did something wrong in allowing 
Mr M to apply for the policy. But Mr M bought the policy online providing Mr Hs details. 
I don't think Admiral had any reason to know Mr H might have had concerns about the policy 
at that time. So I don't think it did anything wrong in not taking further action to validate the 
details before it learned of the unusual circumstances in which Mr M had taken it out.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman