DRN-2502166
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Topaz Finance Limited unfairly increased their monthly 
payments. This was despite the interest rate falling and happened during the pandemic. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a buy to let mortgage with another lender on a repayment basis. The 
loan was transferred to Topaz in 2019. The term is due to expire in 2022. Mr and Mrs Cs 
payments are up to date. They cant understand why Topaz increased their contractual 
monthly payment (CMP) from April 2020 when it had reduced the interest rate.  
Topaz said it calculated what payments Mr and Mrs C would need to make from 1 April 2020 
to repay the mortgage by the expiry date. It did the calculation on 27 March  before it 
received the payment due at the end of March. It used the balance at the time it did the 
calculation, without taking the payment due at the end of March into account. It says it has to 
do this as theres no guarantee the payment would be received. 
Our investigator said it wasnt fair for Topaz to increase Mr and Mrs Cs CMP due to the way 
it carried out its calculation. She said Topaz should recalculate the CMP. It should then 
rework the account and give Mr and Mrs C the option of having the overpayments refunded 
with interest. The investigator said Topaz should pay Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation for 
the upset this caused.
Topaz didnt agree. It said it did the calculation using the balance at the time. It said it would 
have been irresponsible to take the March payment into account before it had been made. 
However, it has since written to Mr and Mrs C telling them their monthly payments will 
reduce. Mr and Mrs C are now worried whether their mortgage will be repaid on time. 
Before issuing my final decision, I told both parties that I thought Topaz had made an error 
and should pay £200 compensation for the upset caused. 
Mr and Mrs C agreed. They said the higher payments didnt cause them hardship and they 
dont need any overpayments returned. Their main concern is that the mortgage is repaid by 
the expiry date. 
Topaz didnt agree, saying it hadnt made an error. It said it did the calculation in the same 
way for all customers, without taking future payments into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C received a letter from Topaz in March 2020 telling them their interest rate had 
changed. It said their new CMP was £407. This was about £10 more than their previous 
CMP (£397), despite the interest rate falling. 
Topaz has since explained what happened. It calculated the CMP on 27 March 2020. Mr and 
Mrs Cs CMP was due at the end of March. When Topaz calculated Mr and Mrs Cs CMP it 
used a balance which didnt include the payment due in March. Topaz says it would have 
been irresponsible to assume the March payment would be made. However it used the 
number of monthly payments from April 2020 to term expiry. In effect, it assumed the March 
payment wouldnt be made. 
The balance Topaz used for its calculation was higher than the actual balance of Mr and 
Mrs Cs account at 1 April. This meant their CMPs from 1 April 2020 were higher than they 
needed to be to ensure the loan was repaid by the end of the term. 
Topaz says it does these calculations for all customers on the same basis. I think its likely 
that only those customers whose CMP is due after the date of the calculation would be 
affected in the way Mr and Mrs C were. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt understand why Topaz increased their CMP when the interest rate fell. 
They were worried about what had happened. I think they were entitled to a clear and 
correct explanation. Topaz didnt provide this. It told Mr and Mrs C: 
Having investigated your concerns in relation to the monthly payment and interest 
rate, I can confirm the payment increased slightly due to the short term remaining. 
We amended the payment to ensure the balance would be repaid within term; if this 
would not have happened you may have had a balancing remaining when your 
mortgage ends in December 2022.
This suggests the change was made because Mr and Mrs C werent on track to repay their 
mortgage by the end of the term. That wasnt right, and it caused Mr and Mrs C more worry. 
Our investigator said Topaz should re-calculate the CMPs. She said it should refund the 
overpayments, if thats what Mr and Mrs C want. Since then though Topaz has re-calculated 
the CMP as part of its usual process. It wrote to Mr and Mrs C saying from May 2021 their 
CMP will be about £387. Most likely the CMP is now lower because Mr and Mrs C were in 
effect overpaying for a year, which reduced their balance.
Putting things right
I wrote to both parties saying I thought Topaz made errors and should pay compensation.
Topaz didnt agree. But, having considered its comments and the evidence, I still think that 
Mr and Mrs C were caused unnecessary worry, first by what looked to be an error with their 
CMP and then by Topaz failing to explain what had actually happened. I think Topaz should 
pay £200 compensation for the upset and trouble this caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Topaz Finance Limited to pay £200 to Mr 
and Mrs C.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman