DRN-2093470
The complaint
Miss H says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says that repaying the loans 
caused her financial difficulty. She says that Morses shouldve seen this and not lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Miss H between 
September 2011 and July 2012. Some of information Ive been provided about the 
lending, from Miss H and her representative, is in the table below:
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayments
1 01/09/2011 £500 22 £35
2 10/11/2011 £300 22 £21
3 19/01/2012 £200 34 £10
4 15/05/2012 £1,000 34 £50
5 17/07/2012 £300 22 £21
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld in part. An 
extract from this decision is below in italics: 
I dont have end dates for the lending but I do know that loans 4 and 5 were passed to a third party 
collection agency.
Miss Hs representative has said that loans 1 and 2 were running at the same time, this was the same 
for loans 2 and 3. Loan 4 repaid loan 3 and loans 4 and 5 ran at the same time.
Morses says, due to the time that has passed, that it no longer has any substantive information about 
the lending. It also doesnt have any information about what it recorded about Miss Hs circumstances 
when it approved the loans.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H, and her representative disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. They have provided some further information about the lending and Miss Hs 
circumstances at the time of sale. Ive considered this complaint having looked at this new 
information.
 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints 
about irresponsible lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - 
on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, 
the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Hs complaint. Ive provisionally decided to uphold Miss Hs complaint in 
part and have explained why below.
Both sides to this dispute dont have a great amount of information from the time of sale. This is 
understandable given the time that has passed. Despite this, I think I have enough information to fairly 
decide this complaint.
Miss H, and her representative, have told me that Miss H was on benefits for much of the time she 
borrowed from Morses. She was in receipt of Jobseekers Allowance of somewhere between around 
£55 to £75 a week. She did have some paid work at times, but I understand this wasnt regular. I 
understand Miss H lived with her family.
So, whilst I cant say for certain what Ms Hs income and outgoings were, I think its reasonable to say 
that both of these were modest. And its likely, at times, that Miss H would receive only her benefit 
income.
For loan 1 Miss H needed to repay around £35 a week after taking it. She would do this for 22 weeks. 
She took loan 2 a relatively short time later which I understand added another £21 to her weekly 
repayment.
 
These amounts do seem high compared to what I think Miss Hs income was. But the amounts 
borrowed decrease for loan 2, and again for loan 3. Miss H seems to manage to make the 
repayments. This would suggest that Miss Hs financial situation was, at the very least, not 
deteriorating due to the lending.
And loans 1 to 3 were relatively early in the lending relationship and so it would be reasonable for 
Morses to be doing less to establish if the loans were sustainable for Miss H, for the reasons Ive 
outlined above.
So, the information I have doesnt lead me to conclude that it was likely that Morses was acting 
incorrectly when it approved loans 1 to 3. Im not intending to uphold Miss Hs complaint about these 
loans.
But for loan 4, and going forward, Miss H borrows a much higher amount. And she makes a 
commitment to repay what was likely to be a significant amount of her income again. And by now 
Miss H has been borrowing for just over 8 months and she was making a commitment going forward 
to do this for another 34 weeks.
These factors themselves suggest that Miss H was in financial difficulty. I think its reasonable to say 
that she was committing to repay too high a proportion of her income over too long a period. From the limited information I have I think its reasonable to say that this lending was likely to be unsustainable. 
Morses shouldve seen this and not lent to her.
I dont think that Morses shouldve approved loans 4 and 5 to Miss H. Im intending to uphold her 
complaint about this lending.
Morses, and Miss H, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. Miss Hs 
representative said that the loans were repaid and pointed to a letter she had provided from 
a third party collection agency which shows the Morses debt was repaid on 11 May 2020. 
I agree that loans are likely to have ended. That said I still dont have end dates for each 
individual loan and so Ive provided some clarification about how Morses should deal with 
this in the putting things right section below. 
Morses didnt have anything to add after theyd seen my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses and Miss H didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So 
Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Morses shouldnt have given Miss H loans 4 and 5.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if Morses is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then 
Morses should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss H towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Morses has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss H having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss H. Morses shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already written-off.E) Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file in relation 
to loans 4 and 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
I understand that the debts on loans 4 and 5 are repaid. If this is the case then Morses would 
not be able to buy them back. And parts C and D of the compensation would not apply. But 
Morses should ensure this is the case and talk to the third party debt collection agency to 
ensure it can obtain the information it needs to calculate parts A and B correctly. 
In this case, given the uncertainty surrounding the loan information, Morses should provide a 
copy of the compensation calculation and any information it has obtained about this to 
Miss H. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman