DRN-3651768
The complaint
Mr M complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that Revolut Ltd didnt do 
enough to recover his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr M complains he was the victim of a scam involving eight online payments totalling 
£38,233.42 that he made from his Revolut account between April 2020 and June 2020. Hed 
been contacted by an individual who presented themselves as a broker offering investment 
opportunities for buying cryptocurrency. He was advised to open a new account with a 
cryptocurrency exchange company and pay £250 into the account as a deposit. He was then 
advised to invest funds into the platform, before loading the crypto onto his online wallet.  
Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam when he was unable to withdraw his funds. He 
was able to recover some of the funds directly from the exchange company, but when he 
contacted Revolut, it told him it wasnt liable to refund the rest of the money because he 
wasnt vulnerable, hed performed the transactions willingly and knowing the risk involved, 
and there were 15 days between the first and second payments, which was sufficient time to 
undertake due diligence. It also explained there was no way to recall the funds because the 
exchange company wasnt regulated by the FCA.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service, arguing he shouldve been given 
a warning by Revolut before he made the payments to the exchange company because it 
wasnt registered with the FCA.
After Mr M complained to this service, Revolut agreed to partially refund the first payment, 
noting it was to a new payee and he wasnt given any warnings. But it said the transactions 
werent unusual compared to Mr Ms spending tendencies and it didnt think the warnings 
would have stopped him from completing the payments. So, it only partially refunded Mr S 
for the first transaction.
Revolut commented that Mr M had been negligent by not performing due diligence on the 
broker. It stated it wasnt responsible for refunding the rest of the money Mr M had lost 
because the exchange company hadnt been operating a scam, and even though it wasnt 
registered with the FCA, it was a legitimate company with a valid European licence. It 
explained its responsibility for Mr M had ended when the money was sent to the exchange 
company and that the transaction that ended in a scam wasnt done through Revolut. It 
explained that transfers to cryptocurrency exchange companies are treated as normal 
transfers that users would make to their external digital wallets. Mr M had a strong 
transaction history of crypto exchanges, so the transactions werent unusual. 
It further stated that, even if it had questioned the transfers, it didnt think it would have made 
a difference because the decision to send the money to scammers was made outside of 
Revoluts platform and it couldnt have known what Mr M had intended to do with the money 
at that later stage.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In reaching this decision, she 
reviewed Mr Ms account statements and noted he had a history of investing in 
cryptocurrency, as well as making regular international payments. So, she didnt think the 
payments to the exchange company were uncharacteristic. She commented that, on 6 May 
2020, the two payments made to the exchange company (combined) were the highest 
amounts debited from the account in any one day, so she thought Revolut ought to have 
taken steps to verify with Mr M if he had authorised the payments. But she thought that even 
if Mr M had been given a warning, he would still have proceeded to make the payments.
She explained the exchange company is a regulated crypto exchange firm in Estonia and 
there wasnt a published warning by the FCA about the alleged merchant involved, so she 
wasnt persuaded there was anything to suggest there was a scam. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the outcome of his complaint and has asked for it to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. Hes questioned why Revolut reimbursed him for the first payment if it 
didnt think it was responsible. Hes also explained the crypto trading in early 2018 was 
inside the Revolut application and he denies making any large payments to cryptocurrency 
exchange companies or brokers before the scam started. 
His representative has argued that Revolut has admitted the financial activity was unusual, 
therefore it ought to have been concerned as to potential financial harm/fraud on the 
account. They dont accept Mr M wouldnt have listened to warnings, describing him as a 
vulnerable layperson who didnt know the hallmarks of scams. Theyve explained he 
wouldve been open and honest with Revolut, prompting it to provide advice as to how 
investment scams look and feel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that although Mr M didnt intend the money to go to scammers, he did authorise 
the disputed payments. Revolut is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make. But, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Mr M has lost the payments he made to accounts that he held at a cryptocurrency exchange 
company. From the evidence Ive seen, the money went to a genuine cryptocurrency 
exchange company in respect of which there were no existing warnings from the FCA or 
from other regulatory bodies on IOSCO. 
As buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity, the extent of what we would expect Revolut 
to have done to protect Mr M is restricted to triggers, meaning I need to consider whether 
the transactions were so unusual that Revolut ought to have intervened to warn Mr M when 
she tried to make the payments.
Revolut, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts and be 
on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. Since Mr M first complained, 
Revolut has said it shouldve given Mr M a warning about the first payment he made to the 
exchange company and, as no warning was given, it has agreed to partially refund the 
payment. The first payment Mr M made to the exchange company was for €2293.40 on 28 April 2020. 
The payment wasnt significantly large. It was being made to a new payee, but, as our 
investigator has said, Mr M had invested in cryptocurrency before and had also made 
regular overseas payments. Therefore, I dont think the payment wasnt unusual for Mr Ms 
spending habits. Because of this, notwithstanding the fact Revolut has said Mr M shouldve 
been given a warning because it was being made to a new payee, I dont think it was so 
uncharacteristic or unusual that it should have triggered fraud alerts and, because of this, I 
dont need to consider whether Mr M wouldve done anything differently if he was given a 
warning when he made the first payment.
The later payments Mr M made to the exchange company were for €3,433.65 and €3,418.84 
on the 6 May, €898.81 on the 14 May, €224.53 on the 15 May, €3,359.90 and €12,604.29 on 
the 19 May and €10,008.56 on the 1 June. The combined total of the two payments he made 
on 6 May was €6852.49 and I accept this was significantly larger than previous payments on 
the account. The payments he made on 19 May and 1 June were also large and out of 
character when considered in the context of Mr Ms other account activity. So, Im satisfied 
these payments should have triggered warnings.
However, Ive considered whether such warnings wouldve made a difference to Mr Ms 
decision to make the payments and I dont think they would. This is because, while I note Mr 
Ms comment that he wasnt heavily into trading in cryptocurrency, he did have some 
experience and understanding of trading in cryptocurrency and certainly couldnt be classed 
as completely inexperienced. I havent seen any evidence that Mr M has been scammed in 
the past and, as the exchange company was a legitimate company that was regulated 
overseas, I think its unlikely a warning would have made a difference to his decision to 
make the payments, especially as there had been a gap of 15 days between the first and 
second payments, during which hed had plenty of time to undertake due diligence on the 
broker. 
I think its likely that, had Revolut contacted Mr M and warned him about the risks of being 
assisted by a broker, he would have continued to make the payments. This is because, it 
appears he had seen positive reviews about the broker and was persuaded the investment 
was genuine. Hed also been permitted to make a small withdrawal.
Overall, I think at the point at which warnings should reasonably have been triggered its 
unlikely this would have made any difference to Mr Ms decision to make the payments. 
Consequently, I dont think Revolut can fairly be held liable for his losses.
Im sorry to hear Mr M has lost money, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Revolut is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman