DRN-3401253
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to 
an investment scam and lost £75,000.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 10 March 2022 and both parties have had an 
opportunity to respond. Barclays hasnt said anything more. Mr S disagreed with my findings. 
Ive copied the provisional decision below in italics, before going on to summarise Mr S 
response. 
Ive discussed this complaint in detail with both Barclays and Mr S, prior to my issuing 
of this provisional decision. That being the case I wont go into extensive detail about 
the circumstances of what happened, as the facts are well-known to both parties. In 
summary:
Mr S was searching online for an investment that suited his needs. He found a 
site and entered his details. He was then contacted by someone posing as a 
broker that Ill refer to as B. But B, and all those that claimed to work there, 
were scammers.
B discussed Mr S investment needs and passed his details on to what Mr S 
thought was a well-known investment bank which Ill refer to as C. Mr S was 
then contacted by what appeared to be staff from C. But it was still the 
scammers that were speaking to Mr S.
C sent Mr S convincing literature and directed him to its website. Mr S has 
explained how all of what he was shown was very professional, as were the 
members of staff he dealt with.
C asked Mr S to submit his details along with identification documents. Some of 
what he sent was rejected for not having been issued within three months. But 
ultimately Mr S provided C with all it needed, and it said he could proceed with 
the investment.
Mr S has said how he did all the checks he could to make sure all was above 
board, including checking the FCA website for details of both B and C.
Mr S decided to go ahead with an investment into a bond and made two 
payments: one for £50,000 on 7 February 2020 and another for £25,000 on 10 
February 2020, both using a reference supplied by the scammers.
When making the first payment Mr S was presented with the following 
warning:
Mr S has explained that he is sure that he would have read the warning and 
taken heed of it. Hes said he was very conscious of being careful given he 
was sending so much money.
The payments went through successfully, and Mr S was unaware anything 
was wrong until a month later. He was alerted to the scam when his wife tried 
to make a similar investment in March 2020 and her bank flagged the payment 
as suspicious.
Mr S got in touch with Barclays to report the scam. Hes explained how he was 
questioned as to whether he was sure he had been the victim of a scam as the 
bank could see his money had been transferred to one of its long-standing 
corporate clients. Mr S insisted the bank investigate.
It took a long time for Mr S to get an answer from Barclays, despite speaking to 
it on numerous occasions. It seemed the bank was taking a long time to 
investigate the receiving account, which Mr S thought must have been set up 
by the scammers.
Mr S was told at one stage, several weeks after reporting the scam, that 
recovery action hadnt even begun.
Whilst the bank looked into what had happened Mr S was contacted by the 
scammers who claimed his money hadnt been received. They told him to 
contact Barclays to ask it to return the money so that he could then send it on 
again. So Mr S believes that Barclays have held the funds somewhere and they 
ought to be available to him.
Barclays wrote to Mr S with its final response in July 2020. It said it hadnt been 
able to recover any of his money and that it couldnt share the details of the 
recipient account holder. It recognised that its communication with Mr S had 
been poor and that it had taken too long to investigate his scam claim. And so it 
said it would pay him £300 in compensation.
Barclays considered whether it was required to refund Mr S scam loss 
under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code, of which it is a signatory. It declined to do so as it believed it 
had presented Mr S with an effective warning at the point he made the first 
payment. And it said Mr S hadnt performed the required level of due 
diligence.
Barclays, in its final response, specifically referred to warnings about C on the 
FCA website. The warning confirmed the genuine C had been cloned and that 
scammers were impersonating it in order to defraud people.
Mr S had already referred his complaint to this service by the time of Barclays 
final response as it had already exceeded the time allowed to consider the 
complaint. And as Mr S was unhappy with the banks answer we began to 
investigate.
Barclays contacted Mr S again directly whilst we were investigating. This was in 
September 2020 and it said that it had reviewed his complaint and would be 
refunding half of his loss  £37,500  along with any applicable interest and 
charges. It didnt give detail as to why it was refunding that amount, only saying 
its earlier decision had been wrong. Mr S asked the bank for further explanation 
but received no reply.
One of our investigators considered all that had happened and recommended 
the complaint be upheld, with Mr S being refunded in full. She felt the banks 
warning wasnt an effective one as per the requirements of the CRM Code. And 
she thought Mr S had made the payments with a reasonable basis for believing 
they were for a legitimate investment, noting the sophistication of the scam and 
the cloning elements as being particularly convincing.
Barclays disagreed and asked that an ombudsman review the case. It reiterated 
that its warning ought to have led to Mr S checking the FCA website where he 
ought to have found a cloned firm warning about C. It also questioned why Mr S 
was happy to deal with C, when he knew he had been dealing with B. And it 
also pointed out there was an FCA warning about B being an unregulated firm. 
The case was passed to me for an independent review.
Ive since corresponded with both Barclays and Mr S. Ive explained to both 
parties that I believe the refund and compensation already paid by Barclays 
represents a fair and reasonable settlement of the complaint. As Mr S didnt 
agree, Im issuing this decision to confirm my intended findings.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I intend to keep my findings the same as Ive already 
explained to him, and Im not telling the bank to do anything more. I know this will come 
as a huge disappointment. I dont underestimate the significant impact this loss has had 
 or will continue to have  on him and his family. Such a cruel crime has lasting 
financial ramifications as well as having a significant mental and emotional impact. But 
having considered all the available evidence and information, I dont find its fair and 
reasonable to say Barclays ought to make up Mr S remaining loss.
The starting point in law is that Mr S is presumed liable for any transactions on his 
account that he authorises. He did authorise the two payments that are the subject of 
this complaint, even though he did so under false pretences and as a result of a scam.
But thats not the end of the story. Barclays is signed up to the CRM Code and so 
ought to refund victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.
Before I move on to my findings about liability for the loss under the CRM Code, its necessary for me to discuss the money thats already been paid 
back to Mr S.
The refund already paid to Mr S in September 2020
Barclays has explained that it refunded half of Mr S loss in September 2020 after 
reviewing his complaint and finding it hadnt acted quickly enough to recover his 
money. It has an obligation to seek to recover payments sent as a result of a scam, 
and to do so quickly.
Mr S has said how the information he was getting from the bank suggested it hadnt 
started to chase the money until perhaps May 2020. But I can see that isnt the case.
Its not entirely clear when Barclays did properly raise the scam claim and seek 
recovery of the funds. But I can see there are records of it doing so from 30 March 
2020. And so it seems the delay was around two weeks at most.
I wouldnt normally make a finding that a customer should be reimbursed on the basis 
that the bank took longer than it ought to have in seeking to recover a scam payment. 
Such a finding would only be made if it was evident that quicker action would have 
meant the funds could have been recovered from the recipient account. Theres no 
evidence to suggest that was the case here.
Mr S money went to the genuine account of one of Barclays corporate customers. 
Barclays has described how the turnover on that account runs into the millions of 
pounds each week and that it operates as a money transfer service. That means any 
payments into the account are quickly redirected to a different recipient, often 
internationally. Here, that would have been a different account controlled by the 
scammers. The reference on each incoming payment represents the instruction of 
where to send the funds on to. So Im satisfied that
Mr S money wasnt recoverable at the point he reported the scam as it had already 
moved through the receiving account. Its important to remember Mr S didnt report 
the scam until around a month after he sent the money.
It does seem Mr S was given incorrect information at different times when discussing 
the scam with the bank. And it took too long to get an answer to him. But the bank 
has already fairly compensated him for these issues in paying him £300 in 
compensation.
Barclays said in its final response that it couldnt supply Mr S with the details of the 
recipient account holder. I did say to Mr S that I would try to get the bank to release that 
information to him. But it has declined to do so and so Im unable to pass the detail on. 
The bank isnt required to share this information and Im not able to direct it to do so.
I know Mr S feels strongly that Barclays didnt act quickly enough and that if it had 
moved to recover his funds sooner, then the result would have been different. That 
belief is, at least in part, based on the scammers contacting Mr S after hed made 
payment to say theyd not received his funds. Mr S believes this shows that his funds 
had been held somewhere and ought to have been recoverable.
I cant say why the scammers told him what they did. Its quite possible they did have 
Mr S money and were simply looking to obtain more. Or it might be that the recipient 
account owner ringfenced Mr S funds. It could also be that the account the money 
transfer service sent the funds onto was frozen by that bank. Unfortunately, and I know 
this is frustrating to say the least for Mr S, Ive no way of knowing. Its beyond the remit of this service to be able to pursue the funds that far. All I can say is Im satisfied 
Barclays was unable to recover the money, and that its delay in looking to do so didnt 
impact the chances of that recovery.
Mr S has expressed concern that the evidence provided by Barclays to this service 
paints a different picture to what he was being told whilst the scam was being 
investigated. The bank has already acknowledged that Mr S was misinformed at times.
Where Ive made findings about what actions the bank was taking at different times, 
those are based on evidence which includes electronic records and notes. So I find 
the banks evidence persuasive in terms of setting out the timeline and the banks 
actions. Im not persuaded the bank has misinformed this service or altered the 
history of events. Its more likely than not that the bank got it wrong when they were 
talking to Mr S.
Considerations under the CRM Code
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer under the 
CRM Code are limited. And it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to 
meet their requisite level of care, as set out in the Code.
Barclays has said that one or more of the exceptions to reimbursement apply in Mr S 
case. And I agree that is the case, which is why Im not telling the bank to do any more 
than it already has.
The relevant exceptions to reimbursement are, broadly:
where it can be demonstrated that a customer ignored an effective warning 
given by the bank
where the customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for 
belief they were for legitimate goods and services.
Did Barclays present Mr S with an effective warning?
I dont find the warning given by Barclays does meet the definition of an effective 
warning. The requirements for this are set out in the Code under standards for firms. 
And the warning that was presented doesnt meet all those requirements. For one, it 
doesnt make it clear that any money sent as a result of a scam would be lost and likely 
irrecoverable.
And so Barclays cant rely on the effective warnings exception to reimbursement. And 
this would normally mean that the bank is responsible for covering at least 50% of the 
loss. But here, Barclays has already refunded that amount. It did so in September 
2020.
Barclays may not have refunded the 50% having reconsidered its position on 
effective warnings. But I cant ignore that the refund has been made and it is on the 
basis that it generally hasnt met the standards for firms requirements. I cant say Mr 
S should receive reimbursement over and above what I would otherwise consider 
fair and reasonable.
Its important to remember here that I wouldnt normally award a refund to a customer 
because of a delay in seeking recovery of payment. The amount to be refunded to Mr 
S would only increase if it could be said he had a reasonable basis of belief when making the payments. Ill address that next.
Did Mr S make the payments with a reasonable basis of belief?
Ive seen at least some of the correspondence between Mr S and the scammers at 
both B and C. And Ive seen the literature that Mr S was sent. Theres no doubt that 
this was a convincing scam, and there are sophisticated elements to it. Carefully 
tailored email addresses that look as though they could belong to genuine employees 
of C; stolen and copied bond information; a detailed and convincing on-boarding and 
customer verification process. These are all elements that made the investment and 
the people Mr S was dealing with seem legitimate. I can certainly see how Mr S was 
drawn in by the scammers here.
However, I also find that Barclays have made a reasonable argument in respect of the 
information and warnings it presented to Mr S when he was making the first payment. 
The warning is relevant to the reasonable basis of belief considerations; it isnt only 
considered as part of the effective warning exception. Thats because it does still form 
part of the wider circumstances and what was happening as the scam unfolded.
Its clear that the warning specifically addresses the scam risk of investments and 
cloned firms. It also explains the risk of using an unregulated broker. Mr S believed he 
was dealing with a genuine company in terms of who he was investing with (C) and 
who the broker was (B). And the warning given by the bank instructed Mr S to check 
the FCA website for the details of both. So I believe its fair and reasonable to say the 
warning ought to have resonated with him, given it matched his circumstances. And 
that remains true even though the warning may not have technically been effective as 
per the Code.
Barclays has provided evidence to show that Mr S spent just under two minutes 
reading through this warning. Mr S himself has said how he would have read and 
taken notice of everything he was presented with. With those two points in mind Im 
satisfied Mr S did read and understand the message and so ought fairly and 
reasonably to have acted on it and checked the FCA website.
Mr S has said that he did actually check the FCA website and found nothing 
concerning. But there were live warnings about cloned and unregulated companies for 
B (posted in January 2020) and C (posted in December 2019). The FCA warning for C 
contains some of the contact details Mr S was using to correspond with the scammers. 
And so its difficult for me to understand why these warnings werent found and why 
they didnt prevent Mr S from proceeding to make the payments.
It seems one of two things more likely than not happened. Either Mr S did check the 
FCA website, saw the warnings but decided to proceed anyway, which wouldnt be a 
reasonable course of action. Or he didnt take note of the banks warning and didnt 
check the FCA website, thereby not carrying out an important piece of due diligence 
that would more likely than not have revealed the scam. Whichever it may be, the 
outcome would be the same. It would mean Mr S proceeded to make the payments 
without a reasonable basis for belief, even though the scam was very convincing up to 
that point.
Is there anything else Barclays ought to have fairly and reasonably done?
Its arguable that Barclays ought to have done more to question the payments Mr S 
was making, particularly the first one. He was sending a large sum of money to a new 
payee. And so there could be an argument to say the bank ought to have questioned Mr S directly, either on the phone or in branch. The counter to that would be that Mr S 
had recently made similar sized payments out of his account around the same time, 
and so the scam payment wasnt necessarily uncommon account activity.
Nonetheless, Ive already made the finding that Mr S should bear some responsibility 
for the loss as he didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. That responsibility isnt 
diminished or removed by a possible further omission on the banks part. And so, even 
if it might be said the bank ought to have done more, it would remain the case that Mr S 
would only receive a refund of 50% of the total loss.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid sufficient redress to 
settle this complaint fairly and reasonably.
Mr S response to the provisional decision said, in summary:
Barclays repeatedly questioned whether he had been the victim of a scam, 
indicated that his money was safe, and said it hadnt started any form of 
recovery action.
That swifter action from Barclays to recover the money would have made a 
difference.
The fact that its been found Barclays didnt do what it ought to have done in 
giving an effective warning, as per the CRM Code, ought to mean it bears 
responsibility for the loss. 
He did check the FCA website and found no warnings for either B or C. He said 
hed checked several weeks before making the payments and is sure the 
warnings werent there. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has said since the provisional decision. And Ive done 
so whilst considering all the evidence and information that had already been supplied by him 
and Barclays. 
Having done so Im not departing from the findings Ive already explained. I wont go over all 
those details again given theres no change. Instead Ill address the points raised by Mr S in 
response to the provisional decision. Ill do so in the same order as Ive set them out above. 
Ive never doubted what Mr S has said he was told at different times whilst discussing the 
scam with the bank. I can accept he was questioned about whether it was actually a scam, 
that he was told his money looked to be safe in the receiving account, and that recovery 
action hadnt started. Call recordings might well confirm all of that, if they were available. But 
Im satisfied that the information he was being given and what he was being told at the time 
was wrong.  Mr S has suggested instead that the bank is giving incorrect information to this service now, 
to hide its mistakes. But Im not persuaded that is the case. I cant listen to the calls Mr S has 
referred to. And some of what was discussed was in branch. But I have seen evidence that 
satisfies me recovery action was started at least by the end of March 2020, as I explained in 
my provisional decision. The outcome of that action found Mr S money had already moved 
through the account. 
I remain satisfied that swifter action on the banks part would not have made a difference to 
the recovery of funds. It did start recovery action in March. But even then, it had been a 
month between Mr S making the payments and his reporting of the scam. And so any 
chance of recovering the funds was always going to be remote. Given how the funds would 
have been moved on  considering what I said in my provisional decision about the nature of 
the business Mr S sent the payments to  Im satisfied they would have been lost almost 
immediately.
The CRM Code does place responsibility for loss on a bank where it hasnt met the 
standards for firms. That includes where it hasnt given an effective warning. But the Code 
does also set out a requisite level of care on the customers part. And as Ive found Mr S 
didnt have a reasonable basis for belief at the time he made the payment, the Code states 
responsibility for the loss is to be shared between the parties. That is why Barclays isnt 
responsible for refunding Mr S complete loss.
Ive said Mr S lacked a reasonable basis of belief because the warning provided by the bank 
ought to have resonated with him and because there were live warnings for both B and C on 
the FCA website. Mr S has said he checked the website several weeks prior to making the 
payment. The suggestion being that the FCA warnings hadnt gone live.
The warning for B had been live for a month before Mr S made the payments, having been 
published on 6 January 2020. The warning for C had been live for almost two months, 
having been published on 18 December 2019. So it seems more likely than not both were 
live at the time Mr S ought to have been checking the FCA website. And I also find its fair 
and reasonable to say that the presentation of the banks warning at the point of payment 
ought to have prompted a further check of the FCA wesbite in any case.
As a further consideration on the FCA warnings point, if Mr S checked the FCA website 
before the warning against B went live, it would be the case that he wouldnt have found an 
entry for B at all. It wouldnt have appeared on the FCA website without a warning as it 
wasnt a regulated firm. And so, if B wasnt listed at all, that ought to have prompted concern 
on Mr S part given the content of the banks warning.
Mr S has said that he wouldnt have seen the warning for C as he was directed to a cloned 
website. To be clear, Ive not said that Mr S lacked a reasonable basis of belief because of 
what might have been found on the legitimate website for C. It is only the warnings on the 
FCA website that Ive considered. 
My final decision
I find that Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid sufficient redress to settle this complaint fairly 
and reasonably.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Ben MurrayOmbudsman