DRN-3226401
The complaint
Mr M on behalf of T, complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim under Ts 
business protection insurance policy.
What happened
T has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. Mr M made a claim on that policy 
to cover losses arising out of the ill health of their Managing Director in around 2017/2018. 
Mr M has said there were several issues when the claim was made; the broker of the policy 
directed T to claim against the wrong insurer, that insurer took several months to confirm the 
position, following which Ts claim was directed to the wrong loss adjusters for Allianz, which 
took a few more months to correct. When Ts claim was eventually considered correctly by 
Allianz and the correct loss adjuster, it was finally turned down. The entire process took a 
year for which Allianz offered and paid £275 in compensation.
Mr M remains of the view however that the claim was wrongly turned down. Specifically, he 
says the policy provides cover for the specific condition the Managing Director was suffering 
from, so Allianz should pay the claim. Allianz however remains of the view that the policy 
only provides cover for this condition where use of the business premises is restricted on 
order or the advice of a competent authority and not when a staff member has suffered from 
the condition on a standalone basis.  
Our investigator considered Ts complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation T found itself in. He 
also considered the compensation offered to T for the administrative errors in processing its 
claim and concluded that the sums offered were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Mr M doesnt agree with the investigators findings in respect of the claim 
itself, so the matter has been put to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the impact Ts Managing Directors illness must have had on her 
and T. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ts complaint. 
Ill explain why.
The type of cover T is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The starting
point is to consider the specific policy T took out. As such Ive considered the policy T holds 
with Allianz to determine whether cover is available for the claim T has made and whether it 
was fair for Allianz to turn down this claim.
The policy contains an extension applicable to disease, infestation and defective sanitation. 
It states it will indemnify T for loss under that section resulting from:
The occurrence of
(a) murder or suicide at The Premises
(b) an illness sustained by any person caused by food or drink poisoning attributable to food
or drink supplied from The Premises
(c) Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease within a 25 mile radius
(d) Vermin or pests at The Premises
(e) An accident which causes defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at The
Premises
where use of The Premises is restricted on the order or advice of the competent
authority
 Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease contains a fuller definition 
encompassing over 25 illnesses, including the one Ts Managing Director was affected by. 
Because of this I understand why Mr M feels Ts claim should be covered but I agree with 
the investigator that the policy requires the occurrence of this disease to restrict the use of 
the business premises on the order or advice of (a) competent authority.
In this case Ts business premises wasnt restricted because of the illness Ts Managing 
Director was suffering from. So I dont think Allianz are required to meet this claim.
Mr M feels strongly that the illness Ts Managing Director was suffering from would never 
cause the business premises to close as its not contagious. Hes also obtained evidence 
from his local Council setting out that as far as theyre aware, a building has never closed as 
a result of this illness in the last six years. Because of this he says the term is unfair and 
should be interpreted in Ts favour. I dont agree. 
Whilst it might be true that the risk Allianz has sought to cover in this policy might be 
minimal, its not for us as a Service to interfere with this. And although I appreciate that Mr M 
feels the policy term is meaningless because of the minimal risk of T or any other business 
having access restricted on the advice of say a local Council or health authority for this 
specific condition, I dont think this means Ts claim should be paid. The policy term itself is 
clear. It only provides cover in certain circumstances for Notifiable Human Infectious or 
Contagious Disease as defined by the policy and in this case Ts claim doesnt fall into 
those circumstances. Because of this I cant say that Allianz have done something wrong or 
need to do anymore. 
When considering this complaint, I want to assure Mr M that Ive looked at whether there are 
any other sections of the policy that might provide cover for the circumstances of the claim T 
has made but Im afraid that I dont think there are any. I know that will be disappointing for 
Mr M but I hope Ive provided a thorough explanation of why I dont think Allianz acted 
unfairly. 
Mr M asked the investigator to comment on whether he thought the level of compensation 
Allianz offered was appropriate. The investigator said he thought it was fair in the 
circumstances. Mr M doesnt appear to be disputing this issue, but for the avoidance of 
doubt I also think the amount offered is fair in the circumstances of this complaint, 
recognising the time and inconvenience T would have been put to in pursuing the claim over 
the course of a year. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ts complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
T to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman