DRN-2926344
The complaint
Ms M complains Prudential Assurance Company Limited unfairly deferred her pension policy 
passed her selected retirement date causing her a financial loss.
What happened
Ms M has an Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) pension plan with Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). It was set up with a selected retirement date 
(SRD) of her 60th birthday 6 April 2020. 
Ms M says leading up to her SRD which was during lockdown, she found it difficult to 
contact Prudential, and promised call-backs didnt occur. As she hadnt made a decision 
about taking her benefits in time for her SRD, Prudential informed her it would be making a 
Market Value Reduction (MVR) to her plan and amended her retirement date to her 75th 
birthday in 2035. Ms M accepts businesses like Prudential were facing challenges due to the 
pandemic. But in view of the communication difficulties she wants Prudential to not apply a 
MVR and enable her to take benefits as planned. 
Prudential apologised for the poor customer service Ms M had experienced including not 
returning her 28 May 2020 call as promised, so offered £125 for that. But it said the 
application of the MVR and the deferment of the policy until her 75th birthday was set out in 
its terms and conditions. However it offered that if Ms M made a claim within the six weeks 
from its final response letter in July 2020, it would carry out a review to ensure she didnt 
suffer a financial loss. 
Ms M decided not to claim her benefits on the policy, but instead referred her complaint to 
this service. She said she didnt want compensation she just wants Prudential to agree not to 
apply the MVR.
 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think Prudential had acted 
unfairly. She noted Prudential had written to Ms M in October 2019 and January 2020 in 
advance of her SRD, and provided information to three different financial advisors (E, H 
and P) who were acting for Ms M. She said the retirement pack and reminder explained 
that if Prudential didnt hear from Ms M prior to her SRD, the policy would be deferred to her 
75th birthday. She acknowledged Ms Ms difficulties in contacting Prudential by phone, but 
didnt think Prudential had caused delays in Ms M being able to claim on the policy. It had 
sent the pack and reminder in good time and had responded promptly to enquiries from her 
advisers. The terms and conditions state that an MVR can apply at any time except SRD or 
death. And she felt £125 was fair for the customer service issues.
Ms M was unhappy the investigator had favoured Prudentials interpretation of the 
information and events. She said Prudential had only sent general promotional leaflets not a 
proper valuation of her policy or confirmed final bonus, and these hadnt been supplied to 
her advisers either. She said it makes no sense to apply a MVR at 75 when shes eligible for 
the state pension at 66, and thought it best not to claim on the policy while her complaint 
was under investigation.  
Our investigator considered these comments. She confirmed shed seen the information 
provided by Prudential to Ms M and her three financial advisers, but they hadnt told 
Prudential the choice Ms M wanted to make. It wouldnt be possible for Prudential to provide 
a final figure until it had received Ms Ms completed discharge form or retirement pack. She 
couldnt confirm whether or not a MVR would definitely apply, although the terms and 
conditions say it might. And if Ms M wished to claim on her policy shed need to contact 
Prudential. But didnt think it needed to do more in respect of Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M said she was being disadvantaged by Prudentials inability to effectively communicate 
during lockdown. So she asked an ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Let me explain why. I can see the investigator set 
out a timeline of events leading up to the complaint. But I think its useful to repeat the key 
events here, which are based on evidence Ive seen. 
8 October 2019  Prudential sent Ms M a retirement pack which gave a current, non-
guaranteed valuation of her plan as around £37,525. Among other things it told her she 
should think carefully about what she wanted to do, suggested she take financial advice or 
consult the free Pension Wise service and that if we do not hear from you before a plans 
retirement date has passed, well extend that plans retirement date to your 75th birthday. It 
also warned that a MVR may apply. 
27 January 2020  Prudential sent Ms M a retirement pack reminder with a non-guaranteed 
valuation of around £38,078. It repeated the suggestions about financial advice and the 
warning about deferment to her 75th birthday. 
11 March 2020  Prudential received a letter of authority from Ms Ms adviser E requesting 
information about her plan.
15 March 2020  Ms M signed a letter of authority for H.
16 March 2020  Prudential provided E with a current non-guaranteed fund value and 
transfer value, the estimated final bonus, policy information, a MVR factsheet, as a MVR 
may apply unless on death or SRD. And it explained what Ms M would need to do if she 
wished to transfer away. 
20 March 2020  H submitted its information request to Prudential. 
23 March 2020  Prudential sent a similar pack of information to H.
29 March 2020  online messages from Ms M asking if her plan valuation of around £38,000 
was guaranteed and if a MVR would apply. She wanted the final figure to arrange a fixed 
term annuity.
31 March 2020  another online message from Ms M saying her plan is due to mature on 
her birthday. She asked how long she could keep it given the current crisis. She mentioned 
nobody was answering calls or responding to messages. And asked if the final figure was 
guaranteed or if a final bonus or MVR would apply.1 April 2020  H requested further information from Prudential about Ms Ms policy including 
investments, charges and options.
6 April 2020  Ms Ms 60th birthday/SRD.
7 April 2020  Prudential wrote to Ms M advising that as her SRD had passed, without her 
taking benefits, her retirement date had been amended to 6 April 2035 when shed be 75. It 
said she had to take a decision about her pension before then, but no MVR would apply on 
her retirement date.
8 April 2020  Ms M spoke to Prudential asking for a final value. She asked if there would be 
a charge for her policy being deferred. She was told theres no charge but a MVR may apply, 
and that her queries would be covered by Prudentials 7 April letter which was in the post.
9 April 2020  Prudential sent bonus rates to H and responded to Ms Ms secure message 
that her requested information would be sent by post. It sent Ms M a retirement options 
pack, with a current non-guaranteed valuation around £40,175, with her retirement age 
shown as 75. 
21 April 2020  Ms Ms new adviser P provided her letter of authority to Prudential.
22 April 2020  Prudential provided a retirement pack to P showing Ms Ms retirement date 
as 6 April 2035 and noting that a MVR applies.
28 April 2020  P chased Prudential for a response to their request.
30 April 2020  another pack provided to P with Ms Ms retirement date as 2035 and an 
MVR of around £997 being applicable.
Prudential admitted it had sometimes been difficult for its customers to make contact by 
phone during this time for reasons relating to the pandemic. And while I havent seen 
records to show how many times Ms M tried to get in touch with Prudential, her message on 
31 March 2020 suggests shed made a number of attempts and was becoming frustrated. It 
was important for Ms M to speak to Prudential to discuss her options, or for an adviser to 
give her a recommendation about what to do.  
It seems Ms M didnt act on the retirement packs sent to her in October 2019 and January 
2020. I think Prudential sent these well in advance of her SRD to give Ms M enough time to 
read the information and discuss her options with Prudential or an adviser if she wished,  
prior to 6 April 2020. Ms M appointed the first adviser E on 11 March 2020 which was just 
over three weeks prior to her SRD. Before Prudential responded to E, Ms M had already 
appointed a different adviser H. Prudential provided H with information about Ms Ms plan on 
23 March 2020, two weeks before her SRD, and a week later on 1 April 2020 H requested 
further information. Im satisfied Prudential responded in a timely manner to these 
information requests, so I cant say Prudential unfairly caused delays. But I think starting the 
process so late meant it was always going to be tight for Ms M to make her decision prior to 
her SRD, particularly as this coincided with the start of the national lockdown when 
businesses had to adapt rapidly to working from home. Even if staff could access systems 
remotely, call handling was often more difficult. 
None of the packs could provide a guaranteed final figure, as until Ms M provided her 
instructions all figures are subject to change and wont include the final bonus calculation, 
which was made clear in all the correspondence to Ms M and to her three financial advisers. 
All packs contained the warning about a MVR, and deferment of the policy if Ms M didnt 
take benefits prior to her SRD. So I think she ought reasonably to have been aware of this. Ms M herself, E and H all received information from Prudential ahead of Ms Ms SRD of 6 
April 2020, whereas P first contacted Prudential on 21 April 2020 when her SRD had already 
been amended to 2035; 
The policy terms set out that there are times when a MVR wont be made, and these are the 
policy-holders SRD and on death. But one may apply at any other time, so I dont think it 
was unfair of Prudential to inform Ms M that one may apply but not to be able to confirm if it 
definitely would. To be clear a MVR isnt a penalty. Its designed to protect the interests of 
everyone invested in the with-profits fund, particularly during periods of volatility. Its applied 
to ensure that the benefit being given to one policyholder isnt unfairly higher than their share 
of the value of the underlying assets in the fund. Ms M was clearly aware that it was possible 
a MVR may apply to her policy as she asked about it in late March 2020, which was around 
the time of market volatility related to the pandemic, and only a week prior to her SRD. And 
when Ms M didnt take benefits by her SRD, Prudential was entitled to amend her retirement 
date to her 75th birthday which is the date by which she must take benefits. It doesnt mean 
she has to wait until then, but under the policy terms, and all the correspondence she and 
her advisers had been sent, a MVR may be applied until then. 
Prudential acknowledged it hadnt returned Ms Ms calls in May 2020. In view of the poor 
customer service, Prudential offered that if Ms M took her benefits from her policy within six 
weeks of its final response letter dated 30 July 2020 it would assess whether shed suffered 
a financial loss. It didnt agree to waive the MVR if one applied, but to compare the position 
shed have been in had the call taken place as it should have (and Ms M had decided to take 
benefits then). And it paid Ms M £125 to apologise for the poor service. I think this is fair.  
Ms M hasnt taken advantage of Prudentials offer, as she wanted this service to review her 
complaint first, which was her choice. But in any case, even if Ms M had spoken to 
Prudential in May 2020, as this was still after Ms Ms SRD of 6 April 2020 it wouldnt have 
changed her position with regard to the MVR. So Im not going to ask Prudential to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman