DRN-3733742
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice JLT Wealth Management Limited gave to him concerning 
transferring the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension plan. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr S was a deferred member of his former employer's DB scheme. The scheme was in 
deficit and in April 2010 Mr S employer wrote to Mr S offering him an enhanced cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) on a time limited basis if he transferred out of the scheme. 
The employer engaged JLT to offer scheme members advice on the suitability of a transfer. 
The employer paid JLTs fees.
JLT gathered information about Mr S DB scheme entitlements. It asked Mr S to complete a 
fact find questionnaire including information about his attitude to risk and it obtained a 
transfer value analysis report. Amongst other things JLT recorded that Mr S was aged 31, in 
good health with no dependants. He had one other pension. but no details about its size 
were recorded. Mr S assessed his own attitude to risk as cautious. His DB scheme had an 
unenhanced CETV of £5,588.00. The schemes trustees were offering an enhanced value of 
£6,433.67. Mr S had the option of taking the enhanced CETV and reinvesting it in a personal 
pension or alternatively taking up to £749.70 of the enhancement as a cash sum. Mr S told 
JLT he would like to take the enhancement as a lump sum to free up some cash. 
In June 2010 JLT sent Mr S its suitability report. Amongst other things it said that given the 
growth rates required (the critical yield) to match the DB scheme benefits it couldn't 
recommend the transfer. It appended an acknowledgement slip in which it asked Mr S to 
confirm hed read and understood the report. It also asked him whether he wanted to stay in 
the plan or to transfer against JLTs advice. Mr S said that he wanted to go ahead with the 
transfer. He gave his reasons for doing so as:
To minimise the number of pensions and keep more in one pot.
JLT then wrote to Mr S on 5 July 2010. It recommended a named personal pension for Mr S 
to reinvest his funds in. Mr S then went ahead and transferred out of the DB scheme.
In 2021 following the regulators review of DB transfer advice JLT examined the advice it had 
given to Mr S in 2010. It said its advice was appropriate at the time. But it said the funds his 
monies were invested in were not in line with his personal circumstances. However, having 
carried out a calculation. JLT didnt think Mr S had been financially disadvantaged.
Mr S complained. JLT didnt uphold his complaint. It said that its advice had been that Mr S 
should not transfer. But he had gone ahead because he wanted to consolidate his pensions 
and release some cash.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didnt think JLT 
had treated Mr S fairly, so felt it should pay him compensation. 
JLT didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. The investigator wasnt 
persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLTs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules in the 
regulators Handbook which required JLT to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required JLT to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, its recommendation had to be clear 
and Mr S had to have understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
Financial viability 
In its suitability report JLT set out that the critical yields were too high to be achieved by 
reinvesting the funds in a personal pension. It said for that reason it didn't recommend that 
Mr S should transfer out of his DB scheme. I agree with JLTs analysis. That is that it was 
more likely than not that Mr S would be worse off in retirement by transferring. And as this 
isn't disputed by either party to the complaint, I dont intend to spend further time analysing 
the viability of the transfer when it clearly wasnt viable.
Did JLT fairly treat Mr S as an insistent client?JLTs said that it gave Mr S clear advice not to transfer out of the DB scheme. But, because 
he chose to go against that advice it treated him as an insistent client; that is an individual 
who wants to proceed with a transaction against the financial advisers advice.
Theres no doubt that JLTs suitability report said its advice was that Mr S should not transfer 
out of his DB scheme. But I think there were flaws in JLTs process which means that it 
wouldnt be fair for Mr S to rely on its recommendation not to transfer.
Its notable that JLT sent its suitability report without the specific details of an alternative 
personal pension for comparison purposes. I find this undermines the advice process. That's 
because the information JLT provided was limited and essentially relied on a comparison of 
the critical yield against what JLT thought Mr S personal pension might reasonably grow at. 
So I think Mr S had little information to go off to decide if going against JLTs advice was 
truly in his best interests. 
I don't see how JLT could expect Mr S to make an informed decision about going against its 
recommendation when it hadn't given him all the information he needed in order to make 
that decision. That is, it gave him some limited information relating to critical yields and 
expected him to make a determination that started him down the road of the insistent client 
process without giving him enough detail to reasonably make that decision.
A clearer process would have been for JLT to provide its advice and recommendations as a 
whole, taking into account Mr S objectives and attitude to risk. That advice should have 
considered the overall picture  both of transferring out of the DB scheme together with the 
choice of alternative pension and Mr S desire to take the additional payment as a lump sum 
immediately. Only then should JLT have clearly set out in one document why transferring out 
of the scheme wasnt in Mr S best interests. 
JLTs recommendation was that it wasnt in Mr S best interests to transfer. But it made it 
very easy for him to do so anyway. I say this because Mr S simply had to choose an option 
on the acknowledgment slip sent with the suitability report to say whether or not he accepted 
its advice. He also added a few words of his own to say why he wanted to do that. Had JLT 
not given him that option at that time, then it would have placed the onus on Mr S to contact 
JLT again to find out what he needed to do if he did genuinely insist on going against JLTs 
recommendations and intended to transfer out of the scheme.
Further Mr S explanation for wanting to give up the safeguarded benefits from his DB 
scheme was that he wanted to minimise the number of pensions and keep them in one pot. 
But as I understand it Mr S only had one other pension. And he didnt need to take any 
action at all in terms of administering or managing his DB scheme funds. He had a 
guaranteed income in retirement from that, whatever happened to his other funds. And given 
his cautious attitude to risk, as JLT had already identified, it was extremely unlikely that he 
would be better off by transferring to a personal pension, so it wasnt in his best interests to 
transfer. 
Also, when answering the fact-find questions Mr S said that he would like to take the 
enhancement as a lump sum to free up some cash. So hed made it clear from an early 
stage that he was already leaning towards transferring so he could have access to some 
cash, but I've seen no evidence JLT discussed with Mr S why he wanted to do that. That is 
what Mr S wanted to achieve by taking the additional payment. While JLT recorded very little 
detail about Mr S income or outgoings, it did note that he had £8,000 in savings and didnt 
have any debts. So it appears that Mr S was managing his finances effectively. And 
therefore had no obvious need for the cash lump sum. But I can't see that JLT made a concerted attempt to explain to Mr S that giving up guaranteed pension benefits for a cash 
lump sum that wasnt obviously needed was not in his best interests.
Given that JLT was well aware there was very little prospect of a personal pension 
matching the DB scheme benefits in monetary terms, then other reasons for transferring 
needed to be sufficiently compelling. But JLT didnt apparently explore this with Mr S. I dont 
see how JLT could give Mr S suitable advice in respect of his objectives without knowing the 
basic facts about what he wanted the cash for. And Ive not seen evidence that JLT 
effectively advised Mr S about the long-term nature of pension planning- such as the need 
for a pot of funds to provide an income for many years ahead.
JLTs role was to discern what Mr S wants and needs were and why Mr S wanted to transfer 
his pension. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr S wanted without appropriate analysis and 
challenge of his motives for doing so whilst discussing the implications of those actions with 
him. But I've seen little evidence of such a challenge even though that would have been in 
Mr S' best interests. Indeed I've seen no evidence that JLT explored with Mr S exactly what 
he wished to do with the additional payment and why. So I dont think JLT met its obligations 
to challenge Mr S objectives in light of what he would be giving up. That also meant it didnt 
appropriately consider whether Mr S aims could be met through other means without giving 
up the benefits from his DB scheme at all
JLT did give Mr S advice not to transfer out of his DB scheme and did bring some of the 
risks and disadvantages of doing so to his attention. But I don't think it can fairly rely on its 
recommendation for Mr S not to transfer. Thats because Mr S apparently made his initial 
decision to go against its advice without having all the facts available to him. Its also notable 
that Mr S said that one of the reasons for transferring was that so hed have all his pensions 
in one place. But JLT then made a recommendation to transfer to another personal pension, 
so keeping the same number of separate pension pots as before and entirely ignoring Mr S 
given reasons for going against its advice. 
Further, with its suitability report recommending that Mr S shouldnt transfer, it provided him 
with a simple to complete acknowledgement slip that gave him the means to go ahead with 
the transfer anyway. I think that sent mixed messages about what its genuine 
recommendation was.
JLT was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr S about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr S' DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing a guaranteed income for 
retirement. But Mr S chosen path was to give up that income in retirement for the chance of 
getting hold of a lump sum of cash, for which he had no obvious need, rather than long-term 
planning. And I don't think that applying an insistent client label to someone when they 
express that their preference is not to follow advice, is the same as applying the rigorous 
process of arriving at a fair determination of who an insistent client really is. So, given the 
flaws described above in JLTs advice process, I dont think it fully and accurately informed 
Mr S about his position. 
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the 
process JLT followed meant that its fair to truly regard Mr S as an insistent client. So I don't 
think JLT acted in his best interests. Neither do I think it treated him fairly. 
Ive thought about whether Mr S would have transferred out of the DB scheme regardless of 
what JLT told him. But Im not persuaded that Mr S would have insisted on transferring out of 
the DB scheme, against JLTs advice if it had brought all of the important points to his 
attention. I say this because Mr S was an inexperienced investor with a cautious attitude to 
risk. But he was taking a significant risk of losing the guarantees from his DB scheme by transferring out of it. So, I think If JLTs advice had been suitably robust Mr S would have 
remained in the DB scheme. 
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice,
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr S whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr S.
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr S acceptance of the decision.
JLT may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr S 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr S SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect JLT to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, JLT should pay the compensation if possible 
into Mr S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, JLT 
should pay it directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date JLT receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further JLT must add interest to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JLT to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. In those 
circumstances, any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont 
apply.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman