DRN-2036733
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Nationwide Building Society gave them incorrect information 
about when their mortgage would be repaid if they made regular overpayments. They ask 
that it honours what it told them, so that their mortgage ended in November 2019.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have a mortgage with Nationwide. The term was due to expire in 2021. They 
took out a new product in September 2017. They'd been making overpayments of £200 each 
month, and after the new product had been agreed, Nationwide told them if they continued 
to make the same overpayments their mortgage would be repaid by November 2019.
In August 2019 Nationwide told them it had made an error. Making monthly overpayments of 
£200 would mean their mortgage would be repaid by November 2020. Unfortunately, by this 
time, Mrs K had reduced her working hours due to health issues and Mr K had agreed a 
demotion at work with effect from late 2019 to spend more time with her. They'd thought that 
the mortgage would be repaid by that time.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr and Mrs K 
would have acted differently if theyd been given correct information in 2017. The 
investigator said, in summary, that if Mr and Mrs K make a lump sum payment to repay the 
mortgage Nationwide should re-work their account as if theyd made monthly overpayments 
since 2017. It should also cover any costs they incur in withdrawing savings to make the 
lump sum payment and pay compensation of £500.
Nationwide agreed to adjust Mr and Mrs Ks account, and cover their costs of withdrawing 
savings. But it didnt agree to pay £500 compensation, saying the £300 it had offered was 
reasonable. Mr and Mrs K didn't agree either, saying they weren't able, or didn't want, to use 
their savings to repay the mortgage balance. Mrs K said Nationwide made the error, so it 
should make up for it.
As the parties didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me. I sent a provisional decision to 
the parties to explain what I thought about the complaint. In summary, I thought Nationwides 
offer to put matters right was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Nationwide agreed, 
and Mr and Mrs K didnt respond. In the circumstances, I dont see any reason to make 
changes of substance here to the findings or outcome in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide accepts it made an error, and that it should put matters right.
First, I should make it clear the error here is with the information Nationwide gave Mr and 
Mrs K in 2017. There's no suggestion the mortgage account wasn't administered correctly. It 
was simply not possible for Mr and Mrs K to repay their mortgage balance by November 
2019 by making overpayments of £200 each month.
If Nationwide had given Mr and Mrs K correct information they could have made a choice in 
late 2017 about their overpayments. They could have chosen to increase their monthly 
overpayments if they wanted to repay the mortgage by the end of 2019. Or they could have 
chosen to continue to make the same monthly payments until the mortgage was repaid, in 
November 2020.
Mr and Mrs K provided evidence they could have afforded to make additional payments of 
£500 each month: they saved this amount each month. So making additional overpayments 
was an option for them.
I've taken into account what both parties have said about what might have happened, if Mr 
and Mrs K had been given correct information. Nationwide provided the "switcher advice 
capture form" which its adviser completed with Mr and Mrs K in September 2017. This says:
overpayments - plans to continue overpaying by £200pm to ensure mortgage is paid off 
quicker.
existing term of 4yrs still meets need to be mortgage free before ideal retirement age of 
62. They also hope the mortgage will be paid off sooner as they are going to overpay.
a 2 years product was chosen as "you both hope in 2 years time you will be in a position 
to redeem your mortgage accounts in full and want to be able to consider this without 
charge".
Based on what Mr and Mrs K told the mortgage adviser in 2017 I don't think it was Mr and 
Mrs K's priority at that time to repay the mortgage by the end of 2019.
I think Mr and Mrs K ought reasonably to have been aware from their annual statements that 
it was unlikely their mortgage would be repaid by November 2019. The mortgage statements 
show that with the overpayments they paid about £11,000 into their mortgage account each 
year. On 31 December 2018 their mortgage balance was about £21,000. They'd have 
needed to significantly increase their monthly payments to repay the mortgage balance by 
November 2019.
However, Nationwide did make an error when it told Mr and Mrs K they were on track to 
repay the mortgage by the end of 2019, and Mr and Mrs K say they made decisions on that 
basis.
I don't think it's fair to say that Nationwide should write off the balance of Mr and Mrs K's 
mortgage as at November 2019. To repay the mortgage by that date they'd have had to 
make larger monthly payments. Instead, they had the benefit of the money.
If they'd had the right information in 2017 Mr and Mrs K could have chosen to increase their 
overpayments or make the same payments for longer. When Nationwide responded to their 
complaint in 2019 it did, in effect, give them an opportunity to make that choice.
Nationwide said if Mr and Mrs K pay a lump sum to make up the difference in payments it 
will restructure the account as if the payments had been made monthly since late 2017. I 
think this is fair. Nationwide provided evidence of the savings accounts that Mr and Mrs K 
have with it and said they'd be no penalty if they used funds from these accounts to repay 
the mortgage. There is more than sufficient funds in these accounts to do so.
Alternatively, Mr and Mrs K can choose to continue to make the same monthly payments 
and pay their mortgage off in late 2020.Nationwide paid £300 compensation to Mr and Mrs K for giving them incorrect information in 
2017. I appreciate they must have been disappointed to discover the mortgage wouldn't be 
repaid by November 2019. Especially as Mrs K was unwell and Mr K had decided to make 
significant changes to his job. However, I've also taken into account that Mr and Mrs K had 
more than sufficient savings to repay the balance without financial hardship if they'd chosen 
to do so. Overall, I think Nationwide's offer of £300 compensation and to restructure the 
account if Mr and Mrs K make a lump sum payment is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think Nationwide Building 
Society's offer of compensation and to re-structure Mr and Mrs K's mortgage account if they 
made a lump sum payment was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman