DRN-4096760
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about Dynamo Cover Limited charging him dispute and cancellation fees in 
relation to a gadget insurance policy it sold him. Hes also unhappy with how it chased 
payment and handled the matter overall.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr S was introduced to the annual policy through a comparison website. 
From there, he was directed to Dynamo which sold him the policy on a non-advised basis. 
In August 2022, Dynamo emailed him to say the policy would automatically renew in 21 
days. After the policy renewed, but within the 14-day cooling off period, Mr S contacted 
Dynamo to cancel the cover. It emailed him a link to cancel the policy but instead he 
disputed the payment with his card provider as he didnt think he needed to pay the 
cancellation fees Dynamo had asked him to pay.
Following this, Dynamo initiated its debt recovery process to chase Mr S for the outstanding 
amount, comprising the policy premium of £56.50 and dispute fee of £16. Alternatively, it 
said he could pay the dispute fee together with a cancellation fee of £15.99 to stop the 
policy. Mr S did the latter but felt hed been forced to do so.  
Unhappy with Dynamos actions and the fees hed paid, Mr S brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator was ultimately unable to recommend that it should be upheld. They 
felt Dynamo had been entitled to apply the dispute fee and cancellation fee given Mr Ss 
actions in cancelling the policy and disputing the transaction as he had. The investigator 
didnt believe that Dynamos handling of the matter, in terms of how it chased Mr S for the 
debt or otherwise, warranted compensation.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said Dynamo didnt enable 
him to discuss the matter with it over the phone, or at least made it difficult for him to do that 
through long call waiting times. He felt threatened by Dynamos approach which caused 
undue anxiety and stress. As such, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S bought the policy online. And Im satisfied that Dynamo sold it to him on a non-advised 
basis. Which means it needed to provide Mr S with enough information for him to make an 
informed decision about taking the policy. In considering that, Ive looked at the information 
thats available and what this indicates to me on balance. 
Its not in dispute that Mr S didnt contact Dynamo about cancelling the policy until after it 
renewed in September 2022. Thats despite Dynamo having emailed Mr S 21 days prior to 
inform him that the policy would renew and when. The email also included the following:
To ensure continued cover so you are not stuck in the event of an emergency, we 
will automatically renew your policy and attempt to take payment on the start date of 
your new policy with the payment information our payment partner holds on file
In addition, I can see from the information Mr S was provided with at the time of the sale that 
it was made clear to him that the policy would automatically renew, and what the 
cancellation charges were. For example, information provided by Dynamo on the 
comparison website said the policy would renew automatically after 12 months. It said opting 
out of auto-renewal was possible. 
In addition, the key facts document explained that cancellation would result in a charge of up 
to £15.99. The document confirmed the policy would automatically renew unless Dynamo 
was notified otherwise. This information was echoed in Dynamos terms of business and Im 
satisfied that Mr S saw these documents or was given the opportunity to read them when he 
bought the policy. 
Taking all of this into account, I believe Mr S was given adequate notice of how the policy 
would operate and the charges that would apply. And, given the lateness of Mr Ss 
instruction to cancel and that he initiated the disputed transaction process with his payment 
provider rather than follow the process advised by Dynamo, Im satisfied that Dynamo was 
entitled to respond as it did. I think its reasonable to conclude that the long call wait times 
and confusion Mr S says he experienced in cancelling the policy could have been avoided 
had he followed that process. 
I recognise that Mr S says his payment provider pursued the dispute without his agreement, 
but thats a matter between him and the provider and isnt something I can fairly hold 
Dynamo responsible for.  
Im sorry to hear of the anxiety and stress Mr S experienced in being chased for payment, 
but Im not persuaded that this was Dynamos fault in the circumstances. Nor do I consider 
that it owes him a refund of the fees hes paid.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman