DRN-2725894
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc varied the interest rate on his ISA account.  
What happened
Mr B has an ISA with Santander. In April 2020, Mr B received an email from Santander 
which he thought said that Santander were reducing the interest rate applicable to all 
accounts, including the ISA account he holds. Mr B was concerned about this because when 
he opened the ISA, he did so under the impression that the interest rate was fixed.
Mr B called Santander and their advisor said that they werent aware that interest rates were 
due to change on ISA accounts, but that Mr B would be notified in advance if they were 
going to. However, a few weeks later, Mr B noticed that the interest rate on his ISA account 
did change from 4.25% to 2.75%. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Bs complaint. They acknowledged that Mr B had been given 
incorrect information by the advisor when he had called, so they made a payment of £75 to 
Mr B by way of compensation for this. Mr B wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, 
especially as the interest rate on his ISA went down again shortly afterwards, from 2.75% to 
0.75%. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the information that Mr B was 
provided both before he took out the ISA account and during the time that he had held it 
confirmed that the interest rate on the account was variable, so they didnt uphold that 
aspect of Mr Bs complaint. But our advisor felt that the amount of compensation that 
Santander had offered Mr B for being given the incorrect information when he had called 
didnt go far enough, so they recommended that Santander pay Mr B a further £75, in 
additional to the amount that had already been paid.
Santander accepted the view put forward by our investigator. But Mr B remained dissatisfied 
and didnt feel that the increased compensation amount went far enough. So, the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has stated that he was under the impression when he took out the ISA that the account 
was a fixed interest rate account. However, having reviewed the relevant documents and 
account literature that would have been provided to Mr B both at the time he opened the ISA 
account  such as the Key Features Document  and periodically once the account was 
opened  such as account statements - its clear from these documents that the ISA account 
is confirmed as being a variable interest rate account. 
For instance, the Key Features Documents states specifically that the interest rate was 
variable, while the account statements refer to the current rate of interest on the account. 
Its also noticeable that the first interest rate change that took place after Mr B opened the 
ISA account was an increase in the interest rate from 4.00% to 4.25%, which provided 
further evidence to Mr B that the interest rate was variable.
Given that the ISA account is a variable interest rate account, Santander are entitled to 
implement changes to the interest rate on that account as they see fit. What this service 
would expect is that Santander provide notice to their customers in advance that they intend 
to make any interest rate changes, so that customers affected by the interest rate change 
have an opportunity to make alternative arrangements should they wish to do so.
It appears that Santander did that here. Theyve provided letter templates for the bulk 
mailing that would have been sent to all ISA account holders to inform them that the account 
interest rate was due to be lowered, and they also sent out emails to ISA account holders to 
provide the same notice via an alternative channel. 
It must be noted that Santander havent been able to provide copies letters sent with Mr Bs 
specific name and address, but it isnt unusual that bulk mailing letters wouldnt be 
maintained on a customers account in such a way to allow this. And Santander have been 
able to confirm that they hold an address for Mr B which is the same as that which Mr B has 
referenced when corresponding with this service. So, Im satisfied that on balance, 
considering all the information available to me, its more likely than not that these letters 
were sent.
Mr B has stated that he didnt receive the letters from Santander. I can understand Mr Bs 
frustration here and given that this type of post is sent unrecorded it cant be confirmed 
definitively that the letters in question were sent. But as mentioned above, Im satisfied that 
its more likely than not that the letters were sent, and this service wouldnt hold a business 
accountable for sent mail that is subsequently not received, because the delivery of sent 
mail isnt something over which that business has any control. Additionally, given that 
Santander also sent emails to ISA account holders informing them of the pending interest 
rate changes, Im satisfied on balance that reasonable and sufficient notice was given.
It follows from this that I dont feel that Mr B was mislead by Santander when he took out the 
ISA account in regard to whether the account included a fixed or variable rate of interest, 
and also in how Santander implemented changes to the variable rate of interest on the 
account, including the notice of these impending interest rate changes that were provided to 
Mr B. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint on this basis or asking 
Santander to make any changes to the interest rate of the ISA account that Mr B continues 
to hold with them.
However, its clear that Mr B did incur a degree of inconvenience and upset following the 
telephone call he made to Santander on which he was told by the advisor that they werent 
aware of any planned changes to interest rates on ISA accounts. Santander have 
acknowledged this themselves in their response to Mr Bs complaint and their payment of 
£75 to Mr B. Santander also accepted the view put forward by our investigator that an 
additional £75 should be paid to Mr B, taking the total amount of compensation up to £150.
Mr B has expressed his dissatisfaction at this compensation amount and believes that a 
higher level of compensation is warranted here. Compensation is often a subjective matter, 
with an offer considered reasonable by one party often not considered as such by another. 
But the additional payment of £75 already accepted by Santander feels fair to me, and I note 
that it is commensurate with what this service would expect, considering the circumstance 
here. And it follows that I will be upholding this complaint on this basis.  
Putting things rightSantander must pay Mr B an additional £75, as explained above.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman