DRN-2694553
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim made on his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H had the benefit of a travel insurance policy (the policy) connected to the type of bank 
account he had. He contacted UKI on 17 March 2020 to make a claim on the policy. Mr H 
was due to travel abroad for a few days on 13 March 2020 with a friend. However, he says a 
couple of days before he was due to travel, he developed a dry cough. Following UK 
government advice at the time in relation to Covid-19, he says he had to self-isolate. So, he 
was unable to travel as intended and cancelled his trip. 
UKI considered his claim and ultimately declined it on the basis that Mr H was unable to 
provide any evidence that he was self-isolating on the day on which he was due to travel 
abroad. Mr H didnt think that decision was fair, so he complained to UKI. 
UKI maintained its position to decline the claim. However, it did send Mr H a cheque for 
£300 as compensation to reflect that hed been incorrectly told that his claim would be paid.
Mr H didnt think that was sufficient and he would like the claim he made paid in full  which 
included money hed paid out for flights, accommodation whilst abroad, winter equipment 
hire and car park fees.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms, the policy does cover certain incurred costs if the trip is 
cancelled for prescribed reasons. That includes: serious injury or illness of any insured 
person...
Mr H was an insured person under the policy, and he says he had a dry cough. Following 
government advice at the time, Mr H says he was self-isolating and unable to travel.
The policy goes on to say:
To claim for the costs of cancelling your trip, you must provide these documents at your 
own cost:
-relevant medical certificates from a doctor if you cancelled your trip due to death, 
injury, illness or quarantine;
-a cancellation invoice, your unused tickets and ticket receipts;
-any other supporting documents that we reasonably ask for to support your 
claim.
From the screenshots UKI has provided, Mr H was able to provide some documentary 
evidence illustrating the costs hed incurred as a result of not being able to travel abroad on 
13 March 2020. However, UKI has ultimately declined the claim because of a lack of 
evidence that he was self-isolating.
I appreciate it wouldve been difficult for Mr H to get an appointment to see a GP or obtain a 
medical certificate at the time, especially as in March 2020 there was rapidly changing 
information and advice about Covid-19. And Im satisfied that the government advice from 
around 12 March 2020 was to self-isolate if someone had certain symptoms  including a 
cough. 
However, UKI has said that it would accept other evidence to illustrate Mr H was self-
isolating at the time. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, given 
the emerging situation in the UK at the time.   UKI asked for any call records showing hed 
contacted NHS 111 for medical advice or that hed informed his employer at the time that he 
was self-isolating. 
Mr H says he thinks his wife called NHS 111 on his behalf about his cough but hes not sure 
whether she managed to talk to anyone. Mr H has given us a bill from a phone provider from 
the time, but it doesnt show any details of itemised calls. Mr H says details of any calls 
which cost less than 50p wouldnt show up on the bill. So, as NHS 111 is free to call, its 
unlikely that any call wouldve appeared on the bill in any event.  
UKIs system notes also reflect that Mr H informed one of its representatives that he hadnt 
told his then employer that he was self-isolating at the time. He was able to provide UKI with 
an email from his employer confirming that to follow government recommendations, from 13 
March 2020, staff were asked to work from home as much as possible. That could explain 
why Mr H hadnt told his employer about needing to self-isolate; because he didnt need to 
leave his home to go to work from 13 March 2020. 
I am very sympathetic to the situation Mr H found himself in at the time. I can understand 
why it might be difficult for him to provide UKI with documentary evidence to support what he 
says about needing to self-isolate around the time he was due to fly abroad, in line with 
government advice. However, Im also conscious that it is for Mr H to establish he has a 
valid claim under the policy. And he hasnt been able to provide any documentary or other 
supporting evidence to UKI that he was self-isolating at the time, even if it doesnt exactly 
match the evidence UKI has requested.
So, in the absence of any documentary evidence from the time supporting that he was self-
isolating, Im not persuaded that UKI has unfairly or unreasonably declined the claim he 
made.
In its final response letter dated 28 August 2020, UKI accept that Mr H was promised that 
his claim would be paid  and that this wasnt correct. Its said it has provided feedback to 
prevent errors like this happening again. UKI also arranged for a cheque to be sent to Mr H 
in the sum of £300 to compensate him for this error. Im satisfied that being told that UKI 
wouldnt cover his claim, after having been told previously that the claim would be covered, 
wouldve been very disappointing. And I accept that that UKI caused Mr H unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience as a result. However, Im satisfied that the sum of £300 fairly and reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience he experienced. And as such, Im not 
going to ask UKI to do anything more. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help him to know that his 
complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman