DRN-2447126
The complaint
Mr A complained to Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard in April 2020 after being 
made aware there were fraudulent transactions on his credit card totalling £1502.64. Mr A is 
unhappy with how the fraud was dealt with.
What happened
On 19 March 2020 at 6.29pm, an unknown third party called up Barclaycard telephone 
banking and passed security in order to gain a PIN reminder for Mr As credit card. At 
8.02pm on the same day, the call was flagged by Barclaycards fraud detection system. 
Barclaycard also noticed some transactions for high amounts were made and put a block on 
the account to prevent further activity.
On 20 March 2020, Barclaycard called Mr As home number and left a message on his 
voicemail. On 11 April 2020, unaware of the voicemail message, Mr A called Barclays to ask 
about local opening times and mentioned that his mobile banking application wasnt working, 
and he couldnt see his credit card account. Mr A contact Barclaycard on 21 April 2020, and 
explained the transactions werent made by him and confirmed them as fraudulent. On 22 
April 2020 Barclaycard issued a full refund for the transactions.
Mr A was unhappy that his PIN was given to a third party over the phone and believes
this is a breach of data. Hes unhappy the voicemail was left on his home phone and not his
mobile. He is also unhappy that an unsigned card was used to make the payments and
also feels the payments should have been blocked as they were out of character for his 
account.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She felt that Barclaycard hadnt done anything 
substantially wrong and Mr A had been put back in the position as if the fraudulent 
transactions had not taken place.
Mr A largely accepted what our investigator said, but he wanted a copy of the third-party call 
recording which Barclaycard had refused to give him under a Subject Access Request.
As the case couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator broadly for the same 
reasons. 
Unfortunately, fraud does happen, and whilst banks do try their best to protect consumers, 
they wont always be able to prevent it. I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. When Barclaycard picked up the voice biometrics on the third-party 
phone call and saw potentially fraudulent activity, they acted quickly to prevent further 
activity on the account. And, ultimately, they refunded Mr A the fraudulent transactions. 
Mr A is unhappy that Barclaycard gave a PIN out over the telephone rather than sending it in 
the post and feels this is a breach of data. As the investigator has already mentioned to Mr 
A, any breaches of data protection rules should be referred to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) for investigation.
In terms of following its own processes, Barclaycard does have a PIN reminder option via its 
telephone banking service, so it is able to give out PINs over the telephone. At the time of 
the call  Barclaycard believed they were talking to Mr A - as the third party had passed 
security. Unfortunately, we dont know how a third party was able to get the information in 
order to do that, but I cant see that Barclaycard did anything wrong here.
Mr A is also unhappy that large transactions (which were unusual for him) went through 
without his signature on the card. There is no way for Barclaycard to know whether a card is 
signed or not as this is for the merchant to check. Whilst the transaction amounts may have 
ben unusual for Mr A, they were made using the card and PIN so did not arouse suspicion 
with Barclaycard on this occasion. Even if I were to conclude that Barclaycard ought to have 
prevented these transactions from going through, Mr A has already been put back in the 
position he would have been in  as the transactions have been refunded.
Mr A also complained that Barclaycard called him on his home number and left a message 
rather than calling his mobile number. He also called Barclays on 11 April 2020 to ask for 
local branch opening times and mentioned that his mobile banking application wasnt 
working, and he couldnt see his credit card account. The call handler thought this was 
potentially an issue with the mobile phone application and was seemingly unaware of the 
fraudulent activity. Even if there where opportunities here for an earlier conversation with Mr 
A about the fraud on his account, I dont think it would have made a significant difference to 
the overall outcome  only that the refund would have been settled a little sooner.
I can see in response to the investigators view, Mr A accepted the above position, but his 
outstanding concern focused on the third-party phone call which he tried to get from 
Barclaycard under a Subject Access Request. I understand Mr A is primarily concerned with 
any other data relating to him that might have been shared during this call so he can protect 
himself.
Barclaycard wont provide Mr A with a copy of the call recording as it is only able to provide 
Mr A with data relating to his personal and account information and the call from the 
fraudster does not relate to this. I do understand that Mr A has found this particularly 
distressing and can understand why he would be anxious knowing that personal information 
might have been made available to a fraudster. But the information in the call is 
commercially sensitive so I cant require Barclaycard to share this information with Mr A.
Mr A may be able to get more advice about any potential data breach, and how to protect 
himself going forward from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
I know Mr A will be disappointed by this outcome, but I think Barclaycard has taken 
reasonable steps to put things right, so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman