DRN-4359555
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim on her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 24 December 2022 Ms A took out a pet insurance policy with Pinnacle for her dog which 
she had recently rehomed. 
A few days later she took the dog to the vet for a health check. The vet noted that the dog 
was suffering from diarrhoea. 
In February 2023 Ms A made a claim to B for the cost of treating the dog for vomiting and 
diarrhoea. 
Pinnacle declined the claim on the basis that claims for illness arising within the first 14 days 
werent covered by their policy. It thought the conditions the dog was suffering from in 
December and February were the same. 
Ms A didnt agree. She said her vet thought the diarrhoea in December was most probably 
due to the stress of having been rehomed. In February the dog had become ill after eating 
cat faeces.
As Pinnacle didnt change its decision, Ms A brought a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He didnt 
think the two incidents of diarrhoea were related. He thought Pinnacle should settle the claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
As Pinnacle didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms As policy doesnt cover an illness that occurred or showed symptoms in the first 14 days 
of the policy. This is a common exclusion in pet insurance policies and we dont think its 
unreasonable.
Pinnacle says that the treatment costs Ms A is claiming for are most likely for an illness that 
showed symptoms in the first 14 days of the policy, namely inflammatory bowel disease. 
The issue for me to decide is whether the problems the dog had in December and February 
arise from the same illness. 
In order to reach a decision Ive considered the vets evidence carefully. Pinnacle has 
provided evidence from its vet. She thought that the link between the two episodes of 
diarrhoea was chronic gastroenteritis due to a hypersensitivity to food antigens or normal 
gut bacteria. She said this condition was classically intermittent and could be triggered by 
stress as well as food hypersensitivity.
Pinnacle has pointed out that when Ms A took the dog for a health check in December, he 
had symptoms of diarrhoea and no definitive cause was noted although the possibility of 
stress was discussed. I think Pinnacle is implying that this means the dog could have been 
suffering from inflammatory bowel disease at that time. There is also a reference in the 
clinical history to the dog having a sensitive stomach.
Ms As vet has said the diarrhoea in December was put down to the stress of a new home as 
the dog hadnt had a change of diet. Unfortunately a definitive diagnosis wasnt made at that 
time. Diarrhoea can be caused by a number of different things. 
The dog had recovered from that by the time he was seen by the vet for another condition in 
January 2023. Ms As vet said:
On the 15th February he came in very unwell. He had eaten cat poo earlier in the week and 
then developed diarrhoea that progressed rather than being transient. This then turned 
bloody and he declined further requiring hospitalisation. 
Given the acute decline and the severity in the presentation of the haemorrhagic 
gastrointestinal signs, it is my view that the cause is different to the milder self responding 
gastrointestinal signs in the past.
I have to compare the comments from each of the vets. In this case I place more weight on 
the opinion from Ms As vet as he actually treated the dog during the illness. He has 
provided a clear opinion that the causes of diarrhoea in December and February were 
different and that the February episode was much more serious. Taken into account all the 
evidence, on balance I dont think Pinnacle has shown its more likely than not that the 
illness Ms A claimed for in February 2023 was the same as the diarrhoea the dog was 
suffering from in the first 14 days of the policy. 
So I dont think Pinnacle treated Ms A fairly in relying on this exclusion to decline her claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Pinnacle Insurance Plc to 
settle Ms As claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pinnacle Insurance Plc should also pay simple interest on any settlement at the rate of 8% a 
year from the date Ms A paid the treatment costs to the date it makes the payment to her. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Pinnacle Insurance Plc to deduct tax from this interest. 
Pinnacle Insurance Plc must give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if 
Ms A asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman