DRN-1748331
The complaint
Miss H complains about delays by British Gas Insurance Limited dealing with repairs when 
she made a claim on her insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss H has cover under her policy for repairs to some of her home appliances. She made a 
call to British Gas in November 2019 when her oven wasnt working. Miss H was told the 
oven wasnt covered under the policy, but British Gas agreed to amend policy, replacing 
another appliance with her oven, and then arrange a repair.
A letter was sent to Miss H confirming this, a further visit was arranged and the part needed 
for the repair was ordered. However, there were delays carrying out the repair due to issues 
obtaining the correct part, and it wasnt completed until January 2020. Miss H complained 
about the delays. 
British Gas said it wasnt obliged to repair the oven, as it hadnt been covered under the 
policy but Miss H disagreed; she said it had always been covered. Our investigator agreed 
the oven hadnt originally been covered, but said British Gas had agreed to include it in the 
cover and carry out the repair, and had then caused delays dealing with the repair. She 
thought Miss H had been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience while she wasnt 
able to use the oven, which ran over the Christmas period. She asked British Gas to pay 
compensation of £200 for this. After considering further comments, she increased this to 
£300.
British Gas thought that was to much and said it would agree to pay £200. Miss H didnt 
think the payment was enough. So, as no agreement has been reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for repairs to appliances, but only those which are named in the 
policy statement. Having reviewed the policy documents and other records, Im satisfied the 
oven hadnt been listed, and so wasnt originally covered by the policy. But when Miss H 
made the claim, British Gas amended the policy to include cover for her oven. So it accepted 
responsibility for dealing with the claim.
Having agreed to provide cover for the oven, British Gas had to deal with the claim in 
accordance with the policy terms. These say it will 
 carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control make that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
This in line with the general requirement for insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
I appreciate that if a part is out of stock, thats outside British Gas control. But some of the 
delay was due to British Gas ordering the wrong part. This caused a delay which could have 
been avoided. 
The delays meant it took eight weeks for the claim to be completed and British Gas has 
identified that three weeks of that was due to ordering the wrong part. 
I appreciate that British Gas amended the policy to provide cover for the oven, which it didnt 
have to do. But having done so, it had to deal with the repair. Miss H was entitled to expect 
this would be done within a reasonable time, and in my judgment eight weeks to repair an 
oven is not reasonable, particularly when some of that delay was avoidable  while not all of 
the delay was due to British Gas actions, some of it was.
So I agree British Gas should compensate Miss H for the distress and inconvenience 
caused; she wasnt able to use her oven, which meant she had to find other ways to cook, 
and this would have been particularly stressful over Christmas. Taking all the circumstances 
into account, I think the suggested payment of £300 is fair.
Putting things right
To put things right, British Gas should pay compensation of £300 to Miss H to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay the compensation set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman