DRN-2866314
The complaint
Mr M complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr M was given a single loan by TFS in December 2017. He borrowed £4,000 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 54 monthly instalments. Mr M faced problems repaying the loan and his 
account was defaulted in August 2019.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the results 
of the checks performed by TFS suggested that Mr M was facing problems managing his 
money. So he thought that TFS should have concluded it would be unlikely that Mr M could 
repay this borrowing in a sustainable manner, and so it shouldnt have given him the loan. 
He asked TFS to pay Mr M some compensation.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr M.
TFS gathered some information from Mr M before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr M was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of more than four years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ms financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think the checks TFS performed were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
The credit check that TFS performed showed that Mr M had faced serious problems 
managing his money in the past. He had several defaulted accounts from three or four years 
before that remained unpaid. Experience often suggests that consumers who have faced 
problems managing their money in the past are more likely to face problems repaying loans 
in the future. But the credit check suggested that Mr M was facing some more current 
problems as well.
Mr M had defaulted on a communications account just a few weeks earlier. I can see that he 
explained to the lender that entry was a mistake, and the debt actually related to his son. But 
I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to accept that explanation without far deeper scrutiny. 
And Mr M also had a number of other loans that had been taken recently, including a 
significant debt of around £10,000 that hed incurred less than six months before. Mr M also 
had a credit card that was several months in arrears and significantly over its agreed limit.
And, although these didnt show up on the credit check results at that time, Mr M was also 
the subject of two county court judgements in the weeks immediately before he applied for 
this loan. I think that, if TFS had dug deeper into Mr Ms circumstances, which might have 
been reasonable given the problems shown by its credit check, it might have discovered 
these two judgements.
So, I think that the results of the checks TFS performed showed that Mr M had faced, and 
continued to face, serious problems managing his money. He was already spending a significant portion of his monthly income repaying other lenders. And the credit check 
suggested that Mr M was finding it difficult to keep up with those repayments. Mr M didnt 
say that he intended to use this loan to consolidate any of those other debts  he said the 
loan was to support further spending on Christmas presents, decorating and buying new 
furniture. I dont think TFS could reasonably conclude that Mr M would be likely to be able to 
repay any additional debt in a sustainable manner. I dont think TFS should have given this 
loan to Mr M.
  
Putting things right
I dont think TFS should have agreed to lend to Mr M in December 2017. So TFS should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat any payments 
Mr M made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ms loan account as Ive directed results in Mr M effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ms loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind TFS that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the remaining recalculated balance.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman