DRN-3928910
The complaint
Mr I complains about the way Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) dealt with his 
request for a hire car when his car broke down. References to Acromas include other 
organisations and individuals acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr I had breakdown cover via his bank account. The onward travel part of the cover was 
underwritten by Acromas and covered the cost of supplying a hire car in the event of a 
breakdown. Mr Is car broke down and he contacted Acromas and asked it to arrange a hire 
car for him.
However Mr I initially tried to claim the hire car under a different breakdown cover 
arrangement and not the cover provided via his bank. It took some time for Acromas to sort 
things out. Mr I had to make several phone calls and he was incorrectly transferred between 
various departments. He was also on occasion incorrectly told he didnt have cover that 
would provide a hire car. The policy covered the provision of a hire car for two days but 
because the breakdown happened just before Christmas, and there was an issue with where 
the hire car would have to be returned to, in the end Mr I didnt have it.
Mr I complained to Acromas. Acromas upheld his complaint, apologised, and awarded him 
£150 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr I didnt think this was enough so he complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He acknowledged that the service from Acromas was very poor, but he 
thought £150 compensation was reasonable.
Mr I wasnt happy with what the investigator said so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr I wants Acromas to pay him another £200 in recognition of the number of phone calls he 
made and the stress caused, which he says made a health condition worse.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr I says he had to make around 14 phone calls over a period of two days to try to sort the 
hire car out, and the stress made him unwell such that he nearly had to go to hospital.
Our investigator has already sent Mr I a link to a page on this services website, where our 
approach to compensation for distress and inconvenience is explained. 
This page says:
An award
...of up to £300
If an error has caused the consumer more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you 
might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more than just 
minimal, then an apology wont be enough to remedy the mistake.
An award between £100 and £300 might be fair where there have been repeated small 
errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. These typically 
result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause either some distress, 
inconvenience, disappointment or loss of expectation.
 The page also says:
An award
...of up to £750
An award of over £300 and up to around £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake 
has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and 
disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact lasts over many 
weeks or months, but it could also be fair to award in this range if a mistake has a serious 
short-term impact.
I can see that Acromas handled the car hire issue badly. However it has apologised and 
awarded Mr I £150 in recognition of this. 
On balance I think that an award of £150 is appropriate in this case, and in line with what this 
service would suggest.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Is complaint, so I wont be asking Acromas 
Insurance Company Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman