DRN-3888121
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to refund transactions he 
didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr B received his credit card statement and noticed a number of transactions to an online 
gaming merchant (who Ill refer to as P) that he didnt recognise. Mr B had an account with P 
that was used primarily by another family member.
Mr B had connected his credit card with his account with P to use to pay for various gaming 
related purchases via the games console. There were purchases going back for some while 
that Mr B wasnt disputing.
Mr B notified RBS about the unrecognised transactions who believed they were properly 
authorised. Mr B was advised to contact P to seek their confirmation that these transactions 
werent associated with Mr Bs account. RBS advised that if this was confirmed they could 
then deal with them as fraudulent payments.
Mr B attempted, on several occasions, to obtain the appropriate confirmation from P, but 
they wouldnt accept his request and closed their investigation. Mr B approached another 
merchant who supplied some of the game points that were linked to the disputed payments 
(referred to here as V). They confirmed these points werent associated with Bs account and 
also advised Mr B to approach P. RBS declined to accept this information as V werent the 
ones who were involved in the disputed transactions.
Mr Bs card was temporarily blocked and then replaced. Several other disputed payments 
were made on the new card until they too stopped.  Mr B complained to RBS about the lack 
of any refund and also that they should have queried the unusual nature of the increased 
spending as there were some days when multiple payments were made to P.
RBS continued to decline Mr B a refund, believing the payments were authorised because 
Mr B already had a relationship with P and had made other, undisputed transactions to 
them. Mr B was unhappy with how RBS dealt with his complaint and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of 
our investigators.
Both parties were asked for information about the situation and Mr B supplied details of 
those transactions he believed were unauthorised and other information concerning his 
attempts to obtain a refund from P. Mr B remained critical of how RBS had dealt with his 
claim.
RBS provided details of the account including how the payments were authorised. This 
information showed that all the disputed transactions were carried out using Mr Bs credit 
card details that were already entered on Ps system  known as subscription or card 
details on file. 
After looking into the complaint, the investigator didnt think that RBS had made an error and 
didnt recommend they refund the disputed transactions. Mr B disagreed and asked for a 
further review of his complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision.
Mr B, via his representative, said that:
The retention of card details on the games console wasnt evidence that the 
transactions were authorised by Mr B or the family member.
It would have been impossible to use the game points purchased.
The original card details were removed from the games console and after the 
replacement card was issued, no further disputed transactions occurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that RBS can hold Mr B liable for the 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them 
or authorised them. 
RBS can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr B authorised the 
transactions, but RBS cannot say that the use of the card details for online payment 
payments conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless RBS can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the payment 
or to debit Mr Bs account and any such transaction must be regarded as unauthorised. To 
start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed transactions. It shows that 
the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools issued to Mr B. Ill now need to 
consider the information provided by both parties to determine whether theres sufficient 
evidence to hold Mr B responsible for the disputed transactions or not.
It's not in dispute here that Mr B had linked his credit card details to the gaming account held 
with P. So, even when that games console was used by another family member, any 
charges made against the credit card through the console are considered to be authorised, 
even if Mr B was unaware of that particular transaction.
The issue here is that Mr B doesnt believe that he or his family member were responsible 
for these disputed transactions. Having looked at the details of the way the payments were 
made, they used the credit card details stored with P, not transactions made by entering 
those credit card details separately, which I would expect to be the case if they were used by 
another unidentified third party.
RBS asked Mr B to approach P and obtain confirmation that the payments were made to a 
different account (to Mr Bs), which would have indicated the payments were fraudulent and 
therefore unauthorised. As RBSs information showed the disputed transactions were carried 
out by the card details retained by P, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to ask for this  
confirmation (from P).
I considered the evidence obtained by Mr B from the operator of the game (V) for which the 
points were purchased from P. Whilst theres some indication that the points were used 
elsewhere, its not explained what the relationship between Mr Bs account and their use was. 
But here, V werent the ones responsible for the transaction, P were. It appears that P 
looked into the matter but didnt provide Mr B with the necessary information that RBS had 
asked for and closed their investigation. 
Mr B also thought that the increased nature of the payments should have raised some 
suspicion with RBS for them to intervene. The statements show some days when multiple 
games purchases were made. This was different to how the account normally operated. But, 
these payments were for relatively modest amounts and Mr Bs credit limit wasnt being 
tested by their purchase. I dont think that RBS failed to act here, because there was already 
a relationship with P and the payments werent so unusual as to expect RBS to intervene. 
I know Mr Bs representative doesnt believe that the retained card details is evidence that 
Mr B or the family member were responsible, but the audit information supplied by RBS 
indicates the transactions were carried out using these retained credentials, so its more 
likely than not that it was the games console that was used to initiate the transactions, 
particularly when considering the transactions were mainly to purchase points for a game 
used by Mr Bs family member.
The representative went on to say that the points couldnt have been used, mainly because 
there were so many of them. But here, its whether Mr B can be held liable for the disputed 
transactions or not, rather than what those points were used for that I have to consider.
Regarding the final point made by Mr Bs representative, the audit data provided by RBS 
does show further disputed transactions were made, even after the card details were 
changed. That indicates they were updated on Ps system to allow them to continue to be 
used. 
Ive also thought about how the card was used. If, as Mr B believes, his card details were 
stolen, then the use of the card doesnt follow any typical pattern for stolen card details. 
Thats mainly because the disputed transactions were made over a period of several months 
and Mr B had a substantial amount of credit available on his account. Id expect a thief who 
had the details to make much more use of it until the account was emptied or the card 
stopped. I dont think this points to an unknown third partys involvement, especially when 
considering that whoever was making these transactions had access to the new card details.  
Overall, taking all the evidence into account, I think it more likely than not that the 
transactions were carried out by Mr B or others with his authority, and it was both fair and 
reasonable for RBS to hold him liable for the transactions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman