DRN-3520192
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about AXA Insurance UK PLC (AXA) who declined their claim under 
their home insurance policy. 
What happened
On 16 November 2015 Mr and Mrs L made a claim to AXA for storm damage. Debris had 
been blown onto a flat roof blocking a drainage channel. As a result, water pooled on the 
roof and dripped inside their property. But as there appeared to be no apparent damage, Mr 
and Mrs L withdrew the claim. 
A few months later they noticed that there was damage that had been caused by the water 
ingress and they asked AXA to re-open the claim. AXA re-opened the claim and instructed a 
surveyor to assess the damage. 
The surveyor declined the claim on the basis that there was no damage to the roof and the 
internal damage wasnt because of a one-off storm event. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the 
surveyor and refused to sign the report. 
On 8 November 2021, Mr and Mrs L complained to AXA regarding the internal storm related 
damage from 16 November 2015. They told AXA that they hadnt carried out any repairs to 
the areas in their property that had been affected. 
AXA told Mr and Mrs L that the complaint was time-barred as it happened more than six 
years ago. It also said that if it were to consider a complaint, it would not be able to uphold 
the complaint or investigate the claim due to how much time had passed, especially as no 
works had been carried out at the property. So, its original decision to decline the claim 
would remain. 
Mr and Mrs L referred a complain to our service as they had been given their referral rights 
in 2021. One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that the complaint 
wasnt time barred. She said that the event complained of happened on 16 November 2015. 
Mr and Mrs L complained to AXA on 8 November 2021, so within the six-year period. 
Our investigator then went on to consider the merits of the complaint. She thought that there 
had been storm conditions at the time, the damage occurred. The internal damage that had 
occurred was consistent with storm damage.  And she recommended that AXA issue a cash 
settlement for the internal damage caused. She said that AXA ought to work out what it 
would have cost for the internal repairs in 2016. And issue a cash settlement in line with the 
accidental damage conditions of the policy, plus interest.
Mr and Mrs L accepted the view, AXA did not. It said that the complaint was time-barred. 
And it was unable to agree with the recommendations in the view. AXA asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should not be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 6 June 2022 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 4 
July 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, I dont intent to uphold this complaint. I understand that this will be a 
disappointment for Mr and Mrs L, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
AXA said that the complaint is time barred and it hasnt given our service permission to 
consider it. It also said that the three-year rule would apply and not the six-year rule as Mr 
and Mrs L were told of AXAs decision in 2016 and didnt complain until 2021. 
Our rules (The DISP rules) govern in what circumstances we can look at a complaint. The 
rules that apply here are known as the six-year and three-year rules and they say as follows:
i.Six years after the event complained of (the six-year rule); or, if later;
ii. Three years from the date on which the complainant became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, that there was cause for complaint (the three-year 
rule.)
Firstly, regarding the six-year rule, this means that a complaint should be bought within six 
years of the event being complained of. Here the event would be the original storm damage 
that Mr and Mrs L reported on 16 November 2015. Therefore, under this rule, Mr and Mrs L 
would have had until 16 November 2021 to make the complaint. Mr and Mrs L contacted 
AXA on 8 November 2021, so I am satisfied that this was within the time frame allowed. 
The three year only applies if later (i.e after) Mr and Mrs L would have three years from the 
date upon which they became aware or ought to have reasonably become aware, that 
there was cause for complaint. I dont think this applies as Mr and Mrs L complained within 
the six-year time limit.  
I have next considered the merits of the complaint. There are three questions we take into 
consideration when determining whether an event can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline a claim. 
AXA determined that there were winds with a speed of 50 mph and rain that had fallen at a rate of 
17 mm. I have checked the local weather reports at the time, which is the best available evidence. 
And they indicate that the wind speeds were around 66 mph, with rainfall being around 17 mm.  Although the policy does not define what a storm would amount to, AXA has agreed that storm 
conditions were present. So, Im satisfied that the answer to the first question is yes, storm conditions 
were present on or around the date the damage is said to have happened. 
Turning to the second and third questions of is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a 
storm typically causes and were the storm conditions the main reason for the damage caused? I have 
seen photographs of the damaged caused internally, and Mr and Mrs L provide a description of the 
internal damage. Also, in the surveyors report (which was written on the day of the inspection and 
dated 2 December 2016) it confirms that internal damage was seen. Namely, damage to wallpaper, 
the plaster had deteriorated, and moisture readings were saturated. So, on this basis, I think that the 
damage caused internally was consistent with storm damage. 
But the surveyor determined that the internal damage wasnt caused by a one-off incident of 
a storm and had been caused by water ingress over a period of time. The surveyor goes on 
to say: From our inspection and also from the photos provided to us by the policy holder 
there was a lot of pooling water on the flat roof, the water is not being allowed to flow away. 
Leading up to our inspection there had been no recent rainfall which would suggest there is 
an underlying defect to the roof causing the pooling of water which will be contributing to the 
failure of the roof.  
And he concluded that: the damage has been ongoing over a long period of time, in our 
opinion back to the original event in November 2015. The customer disputes this stating the 
damage has occurred as a result of a recent single event of rainwater ingress. In our opinion 
this cannot be correct as the areas in question would have dried out by now, but they are 
reading saturated. It is our recommendation that the claim for the internal damage should 
also be declined in full.
AXA relied upon the expert evidence from the surveyor before it declined the claim in 2016. 
Since this time, Mr and Mrs L havent obtained any other evidence (like another expert 
report) that is contrary to the evidence that AXA relied upon. So, I dont have an opposing 
view and as we are not experts, Im entitled to place weight on the evidence that AXA has 
provided. 
The conclusion here is that the storm conditions were not the main cause of damage. From 
the report the damage was caused by an underlying defect of the roof that caused pooling of 
water and contributed to the failure of the roof. The surveyor concluded, over a year after the 
storm incident occurred, that the walls were still reading as saturated, which meant that had 
the storm damage been a one off incident, the walls would have been dried out by the time 
the inspection took place. Which wasnt the case here. 
Consequently, Im satisfied that that the answer to question three is no. And as a result, AXA 
could reasonably decline the claim, as storm conditions were not the main cause of the 
internal damage. 
Although I understand that this is not the outcome Mr and Mrs L wouldve liked, I intend not 
to ask AXA to do anything more to resolve this complaint. But if Mr and Mrs L can provide 
me with expert evidence to the contrary, I will consider it.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA had nothing further to add to my provisional decision. Mrs L said that she no longer had the heart or inclination to pursue the complaint further as 
Mr L had recently passed away. I am sorry to hear about the loss of Mr L and my sympathy 
goes out to Mrs L. 
Mrs L also commented that she wondered why she paid for insurance. 
My final decision is the same as my provisional decision. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman