DRN-3235373
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs S took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. The 
policy provided cover between 26 February 2020 and 25 February 2021. Mr and Mrs S 
planned to travel to a country Ill call F between 20 and 29 August 2020, along with another 
family. Theyd booked travel, accommodation and an excursion.
On 4 July 2020, F had been placed on a list of countries which had been exempt from 
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advice against all but essential 
travel due to Covid-19. However, in August 2020, the FCDO updated its advice again and 
stated that all UK nationals returning from F would need to self-isolate for 14 days.
One of the other members of Mr and Mrs S travelling party, (Mr B) was employed as a 
teacher. The requirement to self-isolate meant that Mr B would have had to miss the start of 
the new school year. As Mr B was contractually required to be in school when it returned 
after the summer holiday, he considered he wasnt able to travel as planned. So both 
families decided against taking the holiday. Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy for the costs associated with cancelling the trip.
AWP turned down Mr and Mrs S claim. It didnt consider the circumstances of it were 
covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They felt that their claim was down to Mr B being ordered to return to work. 
Cancellation due to a government employee being ordered to return to duty was something 
which was covered by the policy terms. So they felt their claim should be paid under this 
section of the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Mr 
Bs employer had ordered him to return to work either before or while he was on holiday  
instead his employer hadnt wanted him to self-isolate during term time. And he didnt think 
there was any evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs S couldnt have travelled as planned. 
This meant he didnt think the claim was covered by the policy terms and so he felt AWP had 
acted fairly when it turned down Mr and Mrs S claim.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said that Mr B was employed by the government and had 
been told not to travel. He hadnt been told to return to work, as he hadnt been permitted to 
go on the trip in the first place.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, I think it was fair for AWP to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs S policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether AWP 
treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
S policy with AWP. As Mr and Mrs S didnt go on their planned trip, I think it was reasonable 
for AWP to consider the claim under the Cancellation, Curtailment and Trip Disruption 
section of the policy. The cancellation provisions cover a policyholders non-refundable travel 
and accommodation costs if theyre unable to travel because of one of a list of specified 
insured events. Mr and Mrs S feel their claim should be covered under the following 
specified insured event:
you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed Forces, 
emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee being ordered to 
return to duty.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel strongly that Mr B was effectively not permitted to travel 
because of his occupation. And so they feel their claim falls within the scope of this term. 
However, I dont agree. Mr B wasnt ordered to return to work early, ahead of the trip, or 
while he was away. The trip dates were outside of school term time. Mr B wasnt required to 
work during the period of the planned trip  indeed, he couldve travelled abroad for the 
duration of the trip had he chosen to do so.  
Instead, the self-isolation rules wouldve affected his ability to return to work after the school 
holidays in line with his employment contract. In my view then, it was Mr Bs occupation and 
employment terms which meant that he couldnt realistically self-isolate after the trip was 
supposed to have been completed and during a period when he was meant to be working. I 
dont think this can fairly be treated as Mr B being ordered to return to duty by his employer 
or even akin to this situation. And neither do I think these circumstances are covered by any 
of the other listed, insured events AWP covers under the cancellation section of the policy. 
So while I can entirely understand why Mr B felt he had no choice but to cancel the trip, I 
dont think it was unfair for AWP to conclude that Mr and Mrs S claim didnt fall within the 
scope of cancellation cover.
Id add that, like our investigator, I havent seen any persuasive evidence to demonstrate 
why Mr and Mrs S and their children couldnt have travelled as planned, despite Mr Bs 
circumstances. I can understand that they may have been upset that their travel plans had 
been significantly disrupted by the situation, but this isnt something which the policy covers. 
I note too that AWP specifically excludes claims which arise because of a policyholders:
disinclination to travel or continue travelling, unless your change of travel plans is caused by 
one of the circumstances listed under 'What you are covered for'.
In my view, as I dont think AWP acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr and Mrs S cancellation claim wasnt caused by one of the listed, covered insured events, I also think its 
most likely that this clause would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs S position because I appreciate theyve been 
left out of pocket for the costs associated with cancelling their trip, I find it was fair and 
reasonable for AWP to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman