DRN-1988293
The complaint
Mr O says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has not fairly compensated him for the 
mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy attached to a credit card.
What happened
Mr O held a credit card with NatWest from 1976. NatWest has told us the PPI policy was 
attached to the account from 1976, Mr O thought it had been added around 1991.
In 1998 Mr O tried to make a claim on the policy for unemployment but the claim was 
declined.
The policy was cancelled in 2013.
In 2019 Mr O complained to NatWest that the policy had been mis-sold. 
NatWest wrote to Mr O in October 2019. In its letter it agreed to uphold Mr Os complaint and 
offered compensation of £17.14.
Unhappy with NatWests response Mr O brought his complaint to this service.
An adjudicator from this service thought the offer from NatWest was fair. Mr O disagreed 
with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
NatWest has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont look 
into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Mr O. In this decision I am looking at whether the 
offer of compensation made by NatWest is fair.
Having done so Im not going to uphold this complaint and I am not going to direct NatWest 
to do anything different. I know Mr O is likely to disappointed with my decision so Ill explain 
my reasons.
Where a PPI policy has been mis-sold Id expect a business to, as far as is possible, return 
the consumer to the financial position theyd be in if the PPI had not been sold. To do this Id 
expect them to refund all the premiums paid, plus any interest charged due to the PPI 
premiums. And Id expect it to pay compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for the 
time the consumer has been out of pocket.
In this case NatWest only holds statement data on Mr Os account from July 2001 onwards. 
That isnt surprising or unusual, I wouldnt expect a business to keep detailed records 
indefinitely.
In a case like this a business should make reasonable assumptions about the account usage 
during the period where there is no data available using information from the statements it 
does have available.
So Id expect NatWest to look at how Mr O used his credit card after July 2001 and use this 
information to estimate how hed likely used it during the period before 2001. And from this 
to then estimate the PPI premiums hed been charged before July 2001.
But Mr Os account is unusual in that his use of the card is extremely low. In the first two 
years of available statement data between July 2001 and July 2003 I can see that Mr Os 
account was mostly actually in credit.  In fact in the first 12 months available statements he 
was only charged £0.01p for PPI in February 2002. 
So when NatWest used this data to estimate how Mr O might have used his card before 
2001, the result is that he was only likely charged a negligible amount for PPI before 2001.
And over the entire 18-year span of available statements I can see Mr O was only charged 
£10.40 for PPI premiums, most of which was charged after 2008. 
So NatWest has refunded Mr O the £10.40 PPI premiums that show on the statement data. 
And because his account was almost always in credit, the premiums didnt attract any 
interest to refund. But NatWest did add compensatory interest at 8% simple for the time     
Mr O had been out of pocket and this totalled £6.74 after tax. This made the total offer 
£17.14.  
Based on the evidence I have seen NatWest has calculated its offer in the way Id expect it 
to.
But Mr O says he used the credit card much more in the years before 2001 and NatWest 
should take this into account.
Ive thought carefully about this but Mr O has not been able to show us any documentary 
evidence such as older statements showing that he used his card differently before 2001.
Mr O says NatWest reduced his credit limit from £3,300 to only £300 and this is why he 
stopped using his card. But the statement data Ive seen shows Mr Os credit limit was 
actually £1,900 from July 2001 until June 2004 after which it was increased to £2,500 and 
then increased again to £3,300 in December 2004 before being reduced to £300 only after 
April 2007. So for the first six years of available statement data, Mr O did have a credit limit 
of at least £1,900 but rarely used the credit card.
Mr O has told us he has received much higher PPI compensation from two other credit cards 
which he held. But just because Mr O used his other cards regularly it doesnt follow that he 
must have used his NatWest card to the same extent.
So in the absence of any other persuasive evidence its my decision that NatWest has 
calculated Mr Os compensation fairly and in the way Id expect it to.
Mr O has also complained that he made a claim on the policy in 1998 for unemployment 
which was turned down. A PPI policy would usually cover against involuntary redundancy. In 
Mr Os case hes told us he was given the choice of being made redundant or to take early retirement and he chose to take early retirement, albeit reluctantly. Its unlikely the policy 
would have covered him for this and is likely the reason why the claim was declined. But if 
Mr O thinks the claim was declined unfairly he should contact the policy insurer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman