DRN-3345338
The complaint
Miss C and Mr D complain that Howserv Limited mis-sold them travel insurance. My 
references to Howserv include its agents.
What happened
On 8 March 2020 Miss C and Mr D bought a single trip travel insurance policy over the 
phone through Howserv. The policy was to cover them for a trip abroad for a special 
occasion from 15 to 21 March 2020. They opted to buy the travel disruption extension cover 
and terrorism cancellation cover.
On 15 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel to the 
relevant country due to Covid-19. Miss C and Mr D were abroad when their planned return 
flight was cancelled but the travel agent was able to rebook them at no extra cost to return 
home on 16 March 2020. 
Miss C and Mr D claimed on the policy for cost of the flights and airport car parking charges. 
The insurer, which is a separate business to Howserv, declined the claim. The insurer said 
Miss C and Mr D had no unused or additional flight costs and the amount claimed for the car 
park fell below the policy excess so nothing was payable under the policy.
Miss C and Mr D complained. They thought the insurer was unfair to decline the claim and  
Howserv had mis-sold policy. Miss C and Mr D said when they bought the policy they 
checked with Howserv that they could get their money back for the holiday through the policy 
if the trip had to be cancelled or cut short due to Covid-19. Miss C and Mr D said Howserv 
assured them they would be covered. They also said theyd spoken to the insurer on 
14 March 2020, the day before they travelled, as they were worried about the Covid-19 
situation and were told if the government said it was alright to travel they would risk not 
getting back their money if they didnt travel. Miss C and Mr D want the costs they claimed 
paid.
Our investigator explained why he thought the insurer had fairly declined the claim so Miss C 
and Mr D continued with their mis-sale complaint against Howserv.
Howserv didnt accept it had mis-sold the policy. It said it wasnt responsible for the claim 
decision and said Miss C and Mr D hadnt travelled on the advice of Howserv. It said Miss C 
and Mr D had called the insurers claims team on 13 March 2020 and the insurer told them if 
they decided to travel and needed to make a claim the claim would be assessed on its 
circumstances and there was no guarantee of the claim being successful. 
As a gesture of goodwill to settle the complaint with Howserv it offered Miss C and Mr D 
£124.56 which represented a partial refund of the policy premium. Miss C and Mr D declined 
the offer.
Our investigator listened to the policy sales call and said Howserv hadnt mis-sold the policy. 
When Miss C and Mr D asked our investigator to check whether Howservs goodwill offer 
was still available Howserv said the offer was no longer available.
Miss C and Mr D disagree and want an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is only about whether Howserv mis-sold the policy to Miss C and Mr D. Miss C 
and Mr D also complained that the insurer declined the claim but thats a separate matter 
about a separate business and after the investigators view about the insurers claim decline 
Miss C and Mr D didnt ask for an ombudsmans decision on that matter. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C and Mr D, I understand their trip was cut short through no fault 
of their own. But I dont uphold the complaint as I dont think Howserv mis-sold the policy. Ill 
explain why.
Howserv sold the policy on a non-advised basis which means it didnt make any 
recommendations on the suitability of the policy. Howserv needed to provide Miss C and 
Mr D with clear information about the key features of the insurance to enable them to make 
an informed decision about whether to buy. 
Ive listened to the policy sales call. Miss C was asked questions about the level of cover 
they would like from the travel insurance policy. Howserv asked Miss C if they wanted 
enhanced cover for cancellation due to natural disasters, terrorism or outbreak of any 
infectious diseases. Howserv said the travel disruption cover provided cover for any travel 
delays, emergency accommodation and repatriation costs for specified unforeseen events, 
such as terrorism, natural disasters or outbreak of infectious diseases. It also provided cover 
if the FCDO or the World Health Organisation changed advice against travel to the 
destination.
Miss C said she and Mr D wanted that cover and Howserv gave the details of two options, a 
comprehensive policy and a basic policy. I think Howserv detailed both options clearly and 
Miss C said they would have the comprehensive policy.
Miss C did tell Howserv she was concerned about the possibility of having to cancel the trip 
due to Covid-19 and asked what she needed to do if that happened. Howserv told her what 
information she would need to provide. Miss C also asked Howserv if they had to quarantine 
while abroad or they couldnt get back because of the flights whether they would be covered 
for hotels and things like that. Howserv said the travel disruption cover would cover  
additional accommodation costs, repatriation costs and delays due to outbreaks of infectious 
diseases.
Ive looked at the policy terms and the information Howserv gave Miss C and Mr D was in 
line with the travel disruption cover policy terms.
So I dont think the information Howserv gave Miss C and Mr D at the time of sale was 
incorrect or misleading. Howserv gave them appropriate information for them to decide if the 
cover was appropriate for their needs. I cant reasonably say Howserv mis-sold the policy.
Howservs offer to pay Miss C and Mr D the equivalent of a partial refund of the policy 
premium was a goodwill offer for a full settlement of their complaint against it, which Miss C and Mr D declined. As they didnt accept the goodwill offer Howserv has withdrawn the  
offer, which its reasonably entitled to do. As I dont think the policy was mis-sold I cant fairly 
tell Howserv to make any payment to Miss C and Mr D.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman