DRN-3563440
The complaint
Miss P has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim she made 
under her home contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss P made a claim to Aviva as she said her washing machine had been accidentally 
damaged. Miss P held Accidental Damage cover under her home contents insurance policy 
with Aviva. 
Aviva instructed an engineer to inspect Miss Ps washing machine. He reported that the 
cause of damage was due to wear and tear and not caused accidentally. So Aviva didnt 
meet Miss Ps claim. 
Miss P complained to Aviva but it didnt uphold her complaint. So she asked us to look at 
things for her. 
Our Investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably. 
Miss P wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ps policy with Aviva says it will provide cover for accidental damage to contents in the 
home. Miss P said that the seal inside her washing machine had been accidentally 
damaged.
The engineer who inspected Miss Ps washing machine reported that the damage wasnt 
consistent with being caused accidentally. He found that several parts to the machine as well 
as the seal were damaged and said this was due to wear and tear. Miss P didnt agree with 
the engineers findings. She says the washing machine still works but they have to put a tray 
underneath as it leaks. I dont dispute what Miss P says. But I dont think this means the 
engineers findings are inaccurate in identifying damaged parts. 
Aviva  like most insurers  provides cover for insured perils. In other words, it provides 
cover for sudden and unforeseen events. But it doesnt provide cover for damage caused 
gradually over time. Having seen that Aviva explains this under its exclusion for accidental 
damage cover, Im satisfied that Aviva acted fairly in relying on the engineers findings when 
deciding to reject Miss Ps claim. 
I understand Miss P will be disappointed with my decision. But taking everything into 
account, I think Aviva properly considered her claim and reached its decision to reject it in a 
fair way and in line with the policy. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman