DRN-2486971
The complaint
Mr B complains Great Lakes Insurance SE havent fulfilled the terms of his roadside 
assistance contract with them.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Great Lakes Insurance SE are 
responsible for it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.  
What happened
In September 2019 Mr Bs car unfortunately broke down while he was abroad with his wife. 
Hes said he pulled over to the side of the road and called Great Lakes to ask them for help. 
Before Great Lakes could get back in touch to sort things out, the police arrived, and 
recovered Mr Bs car to a garage  and he was told repairs were needed which couldnt be 
done at the time. Mr B kept Great Lakes updated, and explained theyd need transport to 
their accommodation. Mr B says he understood this was being handled by Great Lakes, so 
took some supplies for overnight, and waited in the front of the garage. Shortly afterwards, 
the garage closed and after 8pm, Mr B received a text message, with no return number, 
saying no taxi would be coming. Mr B says this left him and his wife in a foreign country, 
where they dont speak the language, stuck late at night. He said hes got medical conditions 
and the temperature was dropping. Hes said fortunately he was able to contact some 
friends who after making arrangements were able to pick him up. So, he complained to 
Great Lakes about this.
They replied to the complaint and said Mr B had got in touch at 4pm and the police were 
directing traffic around his vehicle. Great Lakes said theyd arranged for a recovery agent to 
attend to Mr Bs car, but around 4.45pm he called back and said the police were moving it. 
Great Lakes say Mr B was advised to go with the police and to call back when further 
assistance was needed. Great Lakes said they understood Mr B was expecting a recovery 
truck to arrive within 45 minutes, but said they usually advise 60-90 minutes. So, Great 
Lakes didnt agree with this element of Mr Bs complaint.
But, they did agree they didnt do enough when Mr B got back in touch at 6.49pm asking for 
a taxi. They said it wasnt until 8.05pm  one hour and 16 minutes later  that Mr B was told 
no taxi could be arranged. As a result of this, they awarded Mr B £30 for their failure.
Mr B didnt accept this. He said the response from Great Lakes was full of mistakes and 
asked us to look into things. He also explained theyd effectively been made to wait over six 
hours, and dont think Great Lakes have properly considered the impact of this.
One of our investigators considered everything thatd been provided, and overall felt total 
compensation of £80 was fair.
Ageas said theyd agreed the service regarding the taxi could have been better but thought 
the compensation of £80 was too high when thinking about all the circumstances of the 
case. They said the delay time was one hour 16 minutes but once you factor in that it can 
often take 30 minutes the delay isnt as bad as it may at first seem. Great Lakes think its 
unlikely if Mr B had been told hed need to pay for the taxi upfront hed have organised it 
himself  and added theyd have only been able to give Mr B the same numbers theyd 
already tried anyway. They added the real issue was the only taxi firm they could find whod 
accept the job would only accept it if it was pre-paid. Great Lakes said this is unusual as 
most taxi firms expect the customers to pay at the end of the journey  and the policy terms 
say theyd only refund Mr B once hes paid out for the taxi. Great Lakes added theres no 
obligation under the terms of the policy for them to arrange a taxi, but they do this as a 
gesture of goodwill given often customers are in a foreign country and may not speak the 
language. But they said if Mr B accepted the £80, then theyd pay it.
Mr B said he didnt accept the offer though. He said theres still a number of inaccuracies in 
the information being reported. He said because of this the compensation doesnt reflect the 
trauma of being left stranded where the company have created an expectation they will 
provide a taxi and dont. And this was exacerbated by him having told Great Lakes about his 
and his wifes vulnerabilities. Had they not been able to contact their friend, theyd have been 
left stranded overnight in cold weather. Mr B said hed accept £495.99  and added hed 
paid his friend €50 for helping out. Mr Bs friend also emailed in, providing detail of what 
happened which corresponds with Mr Bs explanation of things. Overall Mr B felt Ageas 
demonstrated an irresponsible attitude to their predicament.
Our investigator didnt think the compensation Mr B had asked for was reasonable for whatd 
happened and said with regards to Mr Bs friends email said shed add it to the file. Because 
of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has said a number of things are still in dispute, but whats not in dispute is that Great 
Lakes have acknowledged they could have done better. Currently theyre prepared to offer 
compensation of £80, but Mr B has said he wants nearer £500. So, Ive gone on to think 
about the fairest way to put this right.
Mr B has said he was left stranded. And I think if he wasnt able to speak to his friend to pick 
him up then Id agree with that. But he was able to speak to his friend  and was picked up 
albeit considerably later than he was expecting. I understand it would have been very 
concerning, and I do acknowledge that the situation wasnt worse because of this. But, I 
cant award compensation for things that could have happened, and only what did.
Which, from the information I have, is that it took an hour and 16 minutes to tell Mr B the taxi 
Great Lakes were arranging for him wasnt going to come. The message he was sent is 
poor, and I dont think they did enough to ensure Mr B wouldnt be left stranded. But, as Ive 
said above, he wasnt.
I also cant ignore Great Lakes point that theyre not required under the policy terms to 
organise taxis when someone is abroad. I agree with that theyre not, but I dont think it 
absolves them completely as my remit is to consider things on a fair and reasonable basis. 
As Mr B has said, they set an expectation theyd arrange a taxi for him, so its disappointing 
they didnt  particularly given hed told them about their vulnerabilities.But, overall, Im satisfied the £80 currently recommended is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. I realise Mr B feels very strongly about his complaint, and I can understand why, 
but I dont think the issues hes outlined warrant anything further. 
Ive noted Mr Bs further concerns about reviews hes read about the company, and that 
those reviews have said others are in the same situation as him. But, my decision is based 
solely on Mr Bs circumstances and, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied £80 
compensation is fair.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr B 
compensation of £80.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman