DRN-3733107
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as D complains that Elavon Financial Services Designated 
Activity Company (Elavon), unfairly charged it fees for Payment Card Industry Data Security 
Standards (PCI DSS) non-compliance, when the reason for that non-compliance was a 
technical fault on Elavons systems. 
In bringing this complaint, D is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr M.
 
What happened
 The background to this case is well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly:
D has three accounts with Elavon linked to the three card payment terminals it 
operates. Merchants such D, who take card payments are required to be PCI DSS 
compliant. This is mandatory and such merchants are required to validate PCI DSS 
compliance on an annual basis by completing a self-assessment questionnaire about 
the security measures they have in place for their business. 
In December 2021 D completed the certification process in relation to two of its 
accounts. However, in relation to the third account (the Account) this wasnt 
completed until 7 February 2022, the consequence of which was that D incurred 
charges for non-compliance.
D believed the charges were unfair. On its behalf, Mr M said the non-compliance was 
not the fault of D. He said he tried to complete the certification process but due to a 
technical fault at Elavon, he was unable to do so until 7 February 2022.  
And in any event, Mr M further argued that it is his understanding that if a company is 
PCI DSS compliant on one account, its deemed to be compliant on all. So, in his 
view it followed that because D was compliant on two of its accounts, it was 
compliant also on the Account. Mr M believed therefore, that Elavons decision to 
charge the fees they did was wrong and amounted to an attempt by Elavon to extort 
money from D. D wanted Elavon to refund the charges. 
Elavon disagreed. They said: 
It was Ds responsibility, as the merchant, to ensure that it was PCI DSS compliant. 
But in relation to the Account, D didnt do so until 7 February 2022 and therefore, 
charges were appropriately applied for Ds non-compliance. 
Furthermore, regarding the PCI DSS non-compliance charges, they were set out in 
the schedule of fees section of Ds application. And by signing the application, D 
confirmed that the contents were read and understood and agreed and Elavon were 
therefore entitled to levy the charges. 
They didnt think there was any technical issue affecting their systems which caused 
Ds non-compliance. 
D maintained its position and since the complaint couldnt be resolved, Mr M referred it to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Ds complaint should be upheld. In summary he said:
D was aware of the steps that were necessary to complete the compliance process 
for the Account and he didnt think there was evidence to show that because of 
something Elavon did wrong D was unable to do so. 
He wasnt persuaded the compliance certificates that were issued to D in relation to 
two of its accounts suffice for compliance in respect of the Account because the 
respective associated terminals were different.
Regarding the charges levied by Elavon, the terms and conditions of their 
agreement, which was signed by Mr M to indicate he agreed to them, confirm that 
Elavon were entitled to levy the charges for PCI DSS non-compliance as shown on 
the schedule of fees accompanying the agreement.
D didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and has asked an ombudsman to decide 
the matter. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Compliance with PCI DSS is a requirement of the agreement between D and Elavon and D 
does not dispute this. Nor does D dispute it didnt complete the certification process for the 
Account until 7 February 2022. Rather Ds case in essence is twofold:
a technical fault on Elavons systems prevented it from competing the compliance 
process until February 2022, and in any event; 
having successfully completed the requirements in relation to Ds other two accounts 
in December 2021, for compliance purposes that suffices for all accounts held by D 
including the Account.
Ill considered both arguments very carefully. I start with the second of these.
Compliance on two accounts meant D was complainant in respect of the Account.
According to Elavon, regarding the two accounts in respect of which D was PCI DSS 
compliant, one of them is retail 50% card present and 50% manual card entry and the second account is retail 20% card present and 80% manual card entry. In contrast the 
Account is a mail order or telephone order account which is 11% internet payment and 89% 
manual card entry. 
Elavon said they can only merge the PCI DSS certification for multiple accounts if the 
accounts have the same owner and if they have similar card acceptance method set ups 
which is not the case for D three accounts. 
Elavons evidence suggest that the set up for the Account is different from Ds other two 
accounts and for that reason, it wouldnt have been appropriate to merge the PCI DSS 
certification for all of them. 
So, whilst broadly speaking D is right that there are circumstances in which certification can 
apply to multiple accounts, Im persuaded by Elavons evidence in the circumstances of Ds  
case that was not possible.  
Besides, I have seen a copy the application form for the Account, which Mr M signed 
accepting that it formed part of the Merchant Agreement between D and Elavon. Under:
IMPORTANT PRINCIPLES AND OBLIGATIONS it says the following:
All Customers must comply with the requirements of the Payment Card Industry Data 
Security Standards ("PCI DSS"). We require all Level 3 and Level 4 Merchants (determined 
by Transaction volume) to validate PCI DSS compliance on an annual basis with initial 
validation to occur no later than ninety (90) days from when the Application has been 
accepted by Us. The Customer will be charged the PCI Charges further described in the 
Schedule of Fees.
These were obligations agreed to by D in respect of the Account, which is identified in the 
application form. That would further suggest D had a specific obligation to demonstrate its 
PCI DSS compliance in relation to the Account. And moreover, Mr M did take steps to do so. 
Which leads me to Ds other argument which in essence is that in all likelihood it would have 
been successful in its efforts to comply with its PCI DSS compliance obligations but for the 
technical issue Mr M encountered in his attempt to do so in relation to the Account. So, that 
that brings me to that aspect of Ds case. 
The technical issue 
Mr M said the technical problem with Elavon related to a scan which wouldn't work in relation 
to the Account. He said he called Elavons technical department numerous times, but 
perhaps a combination of Covid and working from home arrangements, no one returned his 
calls. 
Elavon said they reviewed their system but werent able to find any information suggesting a 
technical error on their side. They said they received the same assurance from their third-
party partners and PCI Helpdesk, all confirming that they were unaware of any technical 
issue. 
Elavon thought if Mr M had experienced a technical problem, it was likely to have been an 
issue to do with Ds software and wouldnt be something caused by Elavon. 
What I have therefore are two opposing accounts regarding the technical issue.
 
Ive noted an email Mr M wrote to Elavon on 7 February 2022 explaining the delay in his 
completion of the compliance requirements for the Account where Mr M said:I managed to get [the Account] complainant today. However, the reason it was not 
compliant was that it was a virtual terminal and the software needed to be altered. 
That suggests that in all likelihood the technical issue was indeed software related but on Ds 
part rather than Elavon. In any case and perhaps more importantly, Ive seen no evidence 
that Elavon had taken any steps to fix any problem on Ds behalf prior to its completion the 
compliance requirement in February 2022 that would indicate this was the obstacle that had 
previously impeded Ds efforts to do so.  In light of that, Im unable reasonably to conclude D 
was unable to complete the PCI DSS compliance obligations because of a technical problem 
in Elavons system.  
   
PCI DSS fees 
As referred to above under IMPORTANT PRINCIPLES AND OBLIGATIONS fees, including 
for non-compliance are listed in the application form to which by signing the form Mr M 
accepted Elavon could levy such charges. I appreciate Mr M thinks they are unjustified and 
are a means of extorting money from D but I do not find Elavon have done anything wrong 
by charging them.  
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman