DRN-2196862
The complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of Mr R and Mrs R that EUI Limited (EUI) has unfairly declined a 
claim on Mrs Rs motor insurance policy following an incident when Mr R was driving. They 
would like their vehicle repaired and third-party claims paid without recovery from Mr R and 
Mrs R.
What happened
Mr R was a named driver on Mrs Rs policy with EUI. Mr R collided with a pedestrian who 
was crossing the road. Mr R says he was unaware there had been a collision, so he didnt 
stop and drove home.
Unfortunately, the pedestrian was seriously injured. There were many witnesses and 
dashcam footage from other vehicles. The police went to Mr Rs home. He failed a 
breathalyser test and was arrested. He was charged with three offences: causing injury by 
dangerous driving, failing to stop and excess alcohol. Mr R pleaded guilty to the first two 
charges and not guilty to the third. He subsequently received a prison sentence and driving 
ban.
Mr R spoke with EUI several times in the months after the incident. It said it was unlikely to 
provide cover for Mr Rs losses and once Mr R had been sentenced it wrote to confirm this. 
EUI said Mr R had breached the policy so it wouldnt provide cover other than what was 
required by Road Traffic Law. The condition referred to was: 
General Condition 3
3. Care of your car
You or any person covered by the policy must:
 protect your vehicle from loss or damage 
If an accident happens, and you or any person covered by this policy fails to protect 
your car from loss or damage through either:
 the inappropriate conduct of the driver 
No cover under the policy will be provided instead our responsibility will be restricted 
to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law
EUI also mentioned the breathalyser result, saying driving under the influence of drink or 
drugs would breach Condition 11 of the policy, but it wouldnt apply this condition in this case 
as this charge had been dismissed.
EUI wrote confirming it was legally required to pay any unsatisfied Court Judgement for 
claims brought by a third-party (like the pedestrian). If it did, it said it could then recover this 
from Mrs R as the policyholder and from Mr R as the driver. It said Mrs R could complete a 
Consent and Indemnity (C&I) form allowing EUI to deal with the claim and it would try to 
minimise costs by settling it without going to Court. By completing the C&I, Mrs R would be 
agreeing that EUI could recover costs from her and Mr R without there being a Court 
Judgement. 
EUI also said it might approach the pedestrian to seek an Assignment and Agreement (A&A) 
with them. This would allow EUI to deal directly with the pedestrian and allow it to seek 
recovery from Mrs R and Mr R. EUI said Mrs R should take legal advice. Some months later 
the C&I form was returned to EUI but had only been signed by Mr R. EUI had already 
agreed an A&A with the pedestrian. 
Mr R complained to EUI on behalf of Mrs R and Mr R about its refusal to provide cover. He 
said Mr R hadnt breached Condition 3 as he (Mr R) simply hadnt seen the pedestrian and 
hadnt realised there had been a collision. Which is why he hadnt stopped, slowed down or 
taken evasive action. 
EUI rejected the complaint. In its final response letter, it said the multiple witness reports 
including dashcam footage showed that Mr Rs view of the pedestrian was unobstructed. It 
said the police investigation and conviction of Mr R showed he had been driving 
inappropriately and breached Condition 3. 
EUI also referred to Condition 11 and the comments of the expert in the police report who 
said:
in any event, the alcohol that was in s body at the time of the collision would have 
significantly have affected his ability to drive a motor-vehicle safely on a public road
Mr R referred Mrs Rs complaint to our service. He said EUI was wrong to say Mr Rs view 
had been unobstructed as the witnesses werent in the car at the time and didnt know what 
he could see. He said Mr R wasnt speeding and not slowing or swerving showed he was in 
control of the car. So, he hadnt failed to protect the vehicle or driven inappropriately and 
wasnt in breach of Condition 3. 
He said Mr R wasnt in breach of Condition 11. He said EUI was insinuating Mr R wasnt fit 
to drive due to alcohol, which wasnt the case. And hed passed a second breathalyser which 
EUI had failed to acknowledge. He said Mr R had consumed alcohol after he got home 
hence the breathalyser reading and hadnt understood the polices questions due to 
language difficulties. And this charge was dropped due to lack of evidence. He said EUI had 
failed to safeguard Mr R and protect him from bias. He said it wasnt right that EUI might 
pursue Mr R and Mrs R for any claim costs in respect of the pedestrian. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said having considered the policy terms 
and conditions, it didnt appear that EUI had been wrong to apply them and had handled the 
claim fairly. Having declined cover it wasnt responsible for repairing the car and it was 
possible that it could seek recovery of any third-party costs in respect of the pedestrian.  
Mr R said both Mr R and Mrs R were very distressed. Mr R was elderly and didnt 
understand what was happening. Mrs R didnt know where she stood and was concerned 
about being pursued financially by EUI. As Mr R doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
This is a very unfortunate situation for all concerned with significant financial implications for 
Mr R and Mrs R. But I dont think EUI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in dealing with the claim or deciding that conditions of the policy have been breached. Mr R says Mr R and Mrs 
R dont know where they stand. But Mr R was in regular contact with EUI and it provided a 
substantial amount of information about what could happen and suggested they take legal 
advice about it.  
When a policy condition has been breached the insurer can chose not to provide cover for a 
claim, other than what it is must do under the law. This requires the insurer to cover any 
third-party claims such as compensation for injuries. It then has various routes to seek 
recovery from the policyholder and/or the driver of its costs. In this case EUI has reached 
agreement with the pedestrian to take over their claim and has their rights to seek recovery 
from Mrs R and Mr R.
Given the implications of this for Mr R and Mrs R, Ive carefully considered the arguments 
made by Mr R that the policy condition cited by EUI hasnt been breached. But I dont think 
his arguments are reasonable and I cant agree with them. 
EUI based its decision on the same evidence presented in Court. Faced with this evidence, 
having had legal representation, Mr R pleaded guilty to dangerous driving and failure to stop. 
I think admitting to driving offences serious enough to result in a prison sentence is clear 
proof of inappropriate conduct of the driver and EUIs conclusion that condition 3 was 
breached was a reasonable one. 
Mr R is angered by EUIs suggestion that Mr R was unfit to drive due to alcohol and didnt 
mention another test which was under the limit in the final response letter. But, based on the 
evidence I have seen, I dont think EUI was unreasonable in raising concerns about 
Condition 11. 
Mr R did fail the breathalyser and the explanation provided by Mr R contradicts what both Mr 
R and Mrs R told the police, that he hadnt consumed any alcohol at all. Mr R maintained this 
in custody and in Court, where he was legally represented. I think its reasonable to conclude 
that any confusion about what the police had asked him would have been cleared up by 
then. 
Mr R was under the limit in tests taken around six hours after the incident. But these still 
showed alcohol. And EUI did acknowledge these tests when it wrote confirming it wasnt 
providing cover. With the evidence disputed, the Judge dismissed the drink driving charge in 
view of the guilty pleas on the other charges. The Court was told Mr R had previously served 
a drink driving ban which doesnt appear to have been disclosed to EUI. So, I dont think EUI 
were unreasonable in suggesting condition 11 had also been breached. In any case, I think 
EUI was within its rights to remove cover under condition 3 alone. 
I dont consider that EUI failed to safeguard Mr R or protect him from bias. Mr R went 
through the criminal justice system with legal representation. He pleaded guilty to driving 
offences serious enough for him to be given a prison sentence. I think any insurer would 
have removed cover in these circumstances. I dont think EUI has acted unreasonably in 
respect of this claim and hasnt treated either Mrs R or Mr R unfairly, so I wont be asking it 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman