DRN-4444138
The complaint
Miss C complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited deducted storage charges 
from her settlement for the total loss of her car following a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy. Miss C is represented in this matter by her mother, Mrs C. 
What happened
Miss Cs car was damaged in an accident and her car was in storage for about two months. 
Markerstudy offered Miss C a settlement for her claim, but it deducted her policy excess and 
a fee for 58 days storage. Markerstudy agreed that it had caused avoidable delays for 12 
days, and so it reduced the fee to 46 days. Markerstudy also agreed that its communication 
and level of service had been poor, and it paid Miss C £500 compensation for the trouble 
and upset this caused. But Miss C remained unhappy with the deduction for the storage. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Markerstudy had made Miss C aware of the storage charges from the outset. She thought it 
hadnt caused any avoidable delays during the 46 days it was asking Miss C to pay for. She 
thought Miss C had delayed giving permission for Markerstudy to recover her car to salvage. 
And she thought its offer of compensation for its poor communication had been generous. 
Mrs C replied that Markerstudy had paid no reasonable storage charges, but it expected 
Miss C to pay for the whole time the car was in storage. She said the reason the car was in 
storage for so long was because of Markerstudys inadequate service. She said they hadnt 
been sufficiently warned that refusal to release the car would lead to charges being applied. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss C 
and to Markerstudy on 5 October 2023. I summarise my findings:
I could see that Miss C had a frustrating claim experience. Markerstudy upheld her complaint 
about her claim journey and the level of service it provided. It also paid her £500 
compensation for this. Mrs C didnt want us to consider this aspect of her complaint further. 
So I didnt consider this here except where the level of service provided by Markerstudy had 
an impact on the storage charges it applied.  
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I could see that on page 11 of 
the policy booklet, Markerstudy stated:
We will also pay the costs for the protection, removal and storage of the insured vehicle 
following an accident and delivery after repair to your address.
And then on page 14,
If the insured vehicle is damaged beyond economical repair we will arrange tor it to be 
stored safely at premises of our choosing.
Markerstudy was obliged to minimise claim costs. It had an agreement with its salvage agent 
where free storage was available. And Miss Cs car had been recovered to her local garage 
where storage charges were incurred. So it followed that Markerstudy would want to remove 
the car to its salvage agent as soon as possible to minimise costs. 
I could see that Markerstudy wrote to Miss C on the day she notified it of her claim to tell her 
that her car may be incurring storage charges and it would only cover reasonable charges. 
But no further information was then provided about this and there was no explanation of 
what reasonable charges would be. 
In a subsequent phone call, a month later, Mrs C was aware that the car was in storage and 
that Markerstudy was only responsible for reasonable charges. But Markerstudy didnt then 
explain that she would be liable for the storage costs. Mrs C was then pursuing Markerstudy 
for an update on the claim. It hadnt contacted the witnesses a month after the accident, and 
it had just started to review the photographs she had sent in several times. 
So I thought Mrs C reasonably thought Markerstudy hadnt actively progressed the claim. 
She wanted the claim settled and Miss Cs No Claims Discount to be unaffected. But, 
without further explanation from Markerstudy, she evidently expected the storage charges 
being incurred were reasonable as it hadnt progressed the claim. And so she expected 
Markerstudy would be responsible for them. 
So I was satisfied that Markerstudy made Miss C aware that it was only responsible for 
reasonable charges. I thought Mrs C should have been aware that her garage would apply 
charges and that she may be liable for any storage charges incurred. But I didnt think 
Markerstudy sufficiently explained what storage charges it would and would not be liable for. 
Whilst the car was in storage, Markerstudy texted Miss C to ask her to release it to its 
salvage agent. And, three weeks after the accident, Miss C declined to release the car until a 
valuation had been agreed. I couldnt see that Markerstudy then raised the storage charges 
with her. 
Miss Cs car was in storage for 58 days until she agreed for it to be removed to 
Markerstudys salvage agent. Markerstudy couldnt release her car before she agreed and 
so it incurred storage charges. Markerstudy stopped applying storage charges on the date 
the valuation was agreed and Miss C gave consent for her car to be removed by the salvage 
agent. There was then a delay in its agent collecting the car. But I was satisfied Markerstudy 
was responsible for this and so I thought it reasonably took responsibility for the subsequent 
storage costs. 
Markerstudy said it had caused 12 days avoidable delays while it reviewed the photographs 
Miss C had provided in order to make a valuation. And so I thought it reasonably reduced 
the storage charges by 12 days to 46 as this was due to its delay.
But I didnt think this went far enough in the circumstances. I thought that if Markerstudy had 
done more to explain to Mrs C that she would be liable for the storage charges then she 
would have released the car sooner than she did. However, Mrs C was aware that 
Markerstudy would only pay reasonable storage charges. But she didnt ask Markerstudy for 
further details. And Miss C had a responsibility to mitigate any claim costs. So I thought she 
should have released the car sooner than she did. 
So, to resolve the complaint, I thought it would be fair and reasonable for the remaining 
storage charges to be split 50/50 so that Miss C was responsible for 23 days storage. 
Markerstudy had already deducted charges for 46 days from her settlement, so I thought it 
should reimburse Miss C half this amount. And, as Miss C had been without her money for 
some time, then I thought it should reasonably add interest to this amount.
Subject to any further representations from Miss C and Markerstudy, my provisional decision 
was that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C didnt reply to my provisional decision. Markerstudy replied that it had nothing further 
to add. So, as I have received no further representations to consider I can see no reason to 
change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to reimburse Miss C for the cost of 23 
days storage, adding interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date of the initial settlement to the date of payment.
If Markerstudy considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman