DRN-3386644
The complaint
Mr S complains that TransUnion International UK Limited has made repeated errors with the
information recorded about his electoral roll registration date on his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In January 2020 Mr S contacted TransUnion as the information concerning his electoral roll 
registration date was wrong on his credit file. TransUnion was reporting a date from 2014 
but Mr S said hed been on the electoral roll since 2002. Mr S complained about the issue 
and sent TransUnion evidence from his council that confirmed he has been registered on 
the electoral roll since 2002. TransUnion found it had a gap in the registration date on its 
systems between December 2013 and February 2014. TransUnion amended the 
information on Mr S credit file and apologised for the mistake.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was ultimately considered by an 
ombudsman who made a final decision. The ombudsman accepted TransUnion had made 
a mistake but thought the action it took to resolve the error and its apology was a fair way 
to resolve Mr S complaint.
In October 2021 Mr S complained to TransUnion again as his electoral roll information was 
incorrect. TransUnion responded in November 2021 and said it was reporting the correct 
date, but Mr S has confirmed its still wrong. TransUnion also said Mr S could enter a 
Notice of Correction on his credit file and offered to send him a copy of his credit report.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and said the error still hadnt been fixed. The 
investigator upheld Mr S complaint and said TransUnion should manually correct the 
mistake and take steps to ensure the issue doesnt reoccur. The investigator also said 
TransUnion should pay Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. TransUnion 
didnt agree the compensation was fair and made a counter offer of £200. Mr S didnt 
accept and asked to appeal. As a result, Mr S case has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a call Mr S recently had with a colleague at this service. Mr S has given us 
a detailed understanding of how the issues raised have impacted him. Mr S has also 
confirmed hes willing for me to share some of the information hes given us with 
TransUnion. Id like to thank Mr S for his frankness and providing personal details about 
his mental health.
Mr S has explained that he suffers with serious mental health conditions including anxiety 
and Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD). Mr S has told us its very important to him 
that his electoral roll registration date is correct and errors trigger serious distress for him.
Despite previously raising the issue with TransUnion in 2020, when it accepted the 2014 
date was wrong, it hasnt taken steps to fix the mistake. Mr S has also told us that hes 
taken the step of checking his credit report online daily to see whether his registration date 
has been fixed. I note Mr S has told us the repeated nature of this issue and TransUnions 
more recent failure to acknowledge the error has made the situation much harder for him 
and caused ongoing and serious anxiety.
Ive considered what Mr S has told us and I think its clear that for him the issue raised is 
very important indeed. Im satisfied the impact on Mr S is substantial, in part because of 
what hes told us about his mental health. I also think the failure to correct the data after
Mr S raised the issue again last year has further impacted how Mr S feels. Any award I 
make needs to fairly acknowledge the impact on Mr S in the individual circumstances of his 
complaint.
As Ive said above, this issue has occurred before and was subject to another 
ombudsmans decision in 2020. When Mr S first raised the issue in 2020 he supplied 
evidence from his council that confirmed hes been on the electoral roll since 2002, in line 
with TransUnions request. And TransUnion said the issue came about due to a gap in the 
dates recorded on its systems. That case has already been decided by another 
ombudsman, but Im satisfied the issues dealt with need to be acknowledged as general 
background even though they dont form part of my findings.
Ive seen the letters from Mr S council from 2020 that confirm his electoral roll registration 
date should be 2002. Im satisfied TransUnion has the information on file to verify and report 
the correct date. I intend to tell TransUnion to take steps to ensure Mr S electoral roll 
registration date on his credit file is corrected, in line with the evidence he supplied from his 
council.
The investigator recommended TransUnion pay Mr S £300 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused and a counter offer of £200 was made. But Im not persuaded that 
either figure fairly reflects how seriously the issues raised have affected Mr S or the length 
of time theyve gone on for. Based on the information Ive seen so far and taking Mr S 
circumstances into account, I intend to increase the award from £300 to £750. In my view, 
that figure more fairly reflects how the issues raised have impacted Mr S.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr S responded to confirm he was willing to 
accept the settlement I reached in my provisional decision. Mr S sent further evidence to 
show electoral roll dates on his credit file. We didnt hear back from TransUnion with 
additional information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like that thank Mr S for his patience whilst weve been dealing with his case. I can see the 
issue continues to impact Mr S and that hes very concerned about further delays from 
TransUnion when trying to resolve his complaint. As TransUnion hasnt provided new 
information and Mr S has confirmed hes willing to accept, Im going to proceed in line with 
the settlement I noted in my provisional decision. I still think thats the fairest way to resolve Mr S complaint, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct TransUnion International UK Limited 
to settle as follows: 
- Amend Mr S credit file to correctly reflect his electoral roll registration date, in line 
with the letter provided by his council
- Pay Mr S £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman