DRN-3303027
The complaint
Company G complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. It isnt happy about the 
way they dealt with a claim under its van insurance policy and about the valuation provided 
for its van.
What happened
Company Gs van was involved in an accident and it made a claim under its van insurance 
policy. Admiral Insurance looked into the claim and the damage caused before deciding that 
the van was beyond economical repair and wrote it off. But when the claim was made G felt 
that the valuation of its vehicle was low, so it complained to Admiral about this. 
Admiral explained how they had valued the van and that they believed they had offered a fair 
market value. Their engineer valued Gs vehicle and initially made an offer which they 
increased to just over £10,000 after reviewing the matter and the advertisements G 
provided. Admiral explained that it had also looked at the various valuation guides before 
concluding that the offer they made was fair which it paid to G less the policy excess and a 
deduction for salvage as it retained the vehicle. As Company G remained unhappy it 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for G but didnt uphold its complaint. He looked into Gs 
complaint and considered the advertisements it provided. And explained to G that he had 
checked the valuation guides and thought that Admiral had offered a fair market value of its 
van that was in line with the guides.
As G didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to G, but Ill explain why.
I can see that Company G raised a few separate complaint points that Admiral didnt 
consider in its final response letter in relation to the valuation complaint raised here. I 
understand these are being raised separately and so I wont comment on them. I will focus 
on Gs main complaint  the valuation of its vehicle.  
In relation to the valuation of Gs van I can understand why it feels the van is worth more 
than Admiral offered, but this service has an established approach to valuation cases like 
Gs. When looking at the valuation placed on a van by an insurance company I consider the 
approach they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact valuation of a vehicle. But we do look to 
see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the vehicle. I 
pay attention to the various valuation guides used for valuing vans like Company Gs. And I 
look at any other evidence provided by both sides. 
This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of similar vans, as Company G has 
provided in this instance. But I place less weight on these than on the valuation guides, as 
vehicles dont normally sell for the price at which they are advertised, and the trade guides 
give an up to date guide of the value of the vehicle in question. The condition of the vehicle 
at the time of the incident is also an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I 
will only order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
Admiral looked at the various valuation guides in forming the market value of Gs van and 
gained its engineers opinion. And our investigator also used various valuation guides and 
came to a similar suggested guide price as Admiral so I cant say they acted unreasonably 
here. The guides are based on extensive nationwide research of selling prices and use 
advertised prices and auction prices to work out what selling prices would have been from 
around the time of Gs claim. And the market value offered should allow G to purchase a 
similar vehicle from a retail establishment or privately. 
Ive looked at the advertisements G provided of vans that it feels are similar which are higher 
than Admiral paid here. While I acknowledge that the market is buoyant at the moment I 
would still expect some negotiation to take place from the advertised price. And a number of 
the vehicles in Gs adverts arent like for like, for example they have less mileage, so it is 
difficult to make a comparison. 
Ultimately, valuing second-hand vehicles is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to 
value Company Gs van. Im just looking to see if Admiral has acted reasonably in providing 
a fair market value of its van and I think they have. 
Company G has also questioned why the vehicle wasnt simply repaired but the insurer can 
decide if a van is economical to repair or not. I dont think Admirals decision not to repair the 
van was unreasonable here given the level of damage and the engineers opinion. And 
Company G wanted to retain the salvage and Admiral has commercial arrangements with 
salvage agents for written off vehicles. And I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably in 
deducting this amount and the excess due under the policy from the settlement figure paid.
Given all of this, Im satisfied Admiral has looked to value Gs van in a fair and reasonable 
way and looked to pay the market value of its van in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. So, although I know Company G will be disappointed with my decision Im not 
upholding its complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G and G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman