DRN-2839300
The complaint
ILs complaint about Metro Bank PLC (Metro) relates to the charges imposed by Metro when 
it repaid a term loan.
What happened
Mr M owned a number of businesses occupying properties owned by IL, which is a property 
investment business also owned by Mr M. In June 2017 Metro provided a significant term 
loan to IL. IL refinanced that loan with Metro in November 2017 and it also agreed to 
additional financing although that was never taken up. In July 2018 further refinancing was 
agreed to by Metro with Mr M signing the loan documentation on 15 August 2018.
In November 2018 Metro were made aware of an ongoing Home Office Investigation 
concerning ILs properties and also local authority proceedings concerning the revocation of 
liquor licences for businesses occupying ILs properties. This I shall term the material 
information. Metro learned that the investigations had been ongoing since May 2018 and as 
IL had not disclosed them, Metro deemed that to be a breach of the loan agreements.
In January 2019 Metro told IL that it could issue a formal demand for immediate repayment 
of the all outstanding liabilities based on the breach of the loan agreements, but instead said 
it would allow IL until 7 May 2019 to repay the loan and a further month after that to close its 
current account. Metro subsequently agreed to extend the time for repayment to 21 May 
2019. In mid-May 2019 IL notified Metro that it had obtained an offer of finance from a third 
party and that IL were looking to complete the loan refinance in 12 weeks. 
On 6 June Metro issue a redemption statement to IL setting a completion date at 21 June. 
The statement showed an early redemption charge (termed prepayment fee) of £55,798.70 
and a rate of interest of 4%. ILs financial advisor questioned this charge asserting that it 
ought not to be charged because IL were not the party wanting to refinance. IL disputed that 
referring to the contractual breaches and agreement IL had entered into. But Metro did agree 
to extend the time for repayment to 19 December 2019 on condition of an increase in the 
interest rate and payment of a £10,000 management fee, which IL agreed to. 
IL subsequently repaid the loan and then complained to Metro, who didnt believe they had 
acted unfairly. Metro said there had been a clear breach of the loan agreement in not 
disclosing the material information which it said constituted material facts with the potential 
to have a financial impact upon ILs ability to repay the loan. So, Metro didnt think it had 
acted unfairly.
IL was unhappy with Metros final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator partially upheld the complaint 
concluding that Metro didnt do anything wrong in calling in the loan as there had been a 
Default Event. However, she thought that the prepayment fee was unfair as the decision to 
refinance the loan wasnt ILs and the loan documentation didnt make it clear. As a result, 
she thought Metro should repay the prepayment fee with interest.
Metro didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have necessarily summarised what occurred between the parties and I know each party 
went into greater detail. Ive read their respective communications very carefully. So, if 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im 
satisfied that I dont need to in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. My focus will 
be on the key issues.
Since I issued my provisional decision Metro have replied to say they have nothing further to 
add. I have received a five page document from Mr M setting out the background to his 
complaint, which I can confirm I had previously considered in reaching my provisional 
decision since it was contained within the original complaint file. I have also received a five-
page letter attached to which is an appendix A, addressed to me, from a Mr Y a business 
and marketing consultant for Mr M. I have now considered that letter but there is nothing 
within it that might be regarded as new or fresh evidence which I had not previously 
considered. My provisional decision therefore remains. As a matter of courtesy though, I 
shall respond to some of the points raised by Mr Y in order to give perhaps greater clarity to 
my provisional decision. 
Mr Y has paid particular attention to the varying legal entities. I am of course aware that a 
limited company tenant of Metro is an entirely separate legal entity to Metro, as indeed it is 
to Mr M personally. The point however is that all limited companies here are owned and 
operated by individuals, and as I have found, Mr M is involved with all the relevant 
companies here. This is why I remain of the view that he is inextricably linked to them all, 
and his knowledge obtained in one company role cannot be disregarded for the purposes of 
his role in another. 
Mr Y has also focussed on the rental values of Mr Ms properties and suggests that given 
these values there was little or no justification in Metros actions. Im afraid this misses the 
point I was trying to make, in that having accepted that Mr M was inextricably linked to all 
entities he was saddled with the knowledge of the Home Office investigation and local 
authority action. That was material information and it was information Metro were, under the 
terms of the agreements, entitled to see. I can appreciate that Mr Y and Mr M may feel such 
information would have little bearing on matters and they are entitled to take that view. But in 
the context of the contractual position between the parties, it is not their view which is 
important. The fact remains that Mr M knew of the above two actions but failed to disclose 
them. Mr Y suggests that such information could not have been disclosed because it was 
sub judice but whilst that might be so, it only relates to the public discussion of such 
information, not the disclosure to ones own bankers. So, I remain of the view that the 
material information should have been disclosed by Mr M but it was not.
I have also understood Mr Ys representations surrounding the ability of Metro to meet its 
obligations and/or Mr M to honour his guarantor obligations. But again this misses the point. 
Metro may well have adopted the position Mr Y advances and decided to take no action, but 
the failure to disclose the material information deprived Metro of the opportunity to make that 
choice. Mr M was under a duty to disclose the material information and he did not do so. 
That is a breach of warranty.Finally, Mr Y has commented upon his and Mr Ms suspicions as to Metros motives. Whilst I 
am confident I will be unable to shake either gentleman from their strongly held views, there 
is no evidence to support that Metro proceeded in their actions against Mr M for those 
reasons.
The heart of this complaint is the contractual position between the parties. IL is a company 
owned by Mr M. He is the majority shareholder, he is also a director of IL and has provided a 
personal guarantee to Metro. Mr M also owns other businesses some of which occupy ILs 
premises. Mr M is therefore inextricably linked to all the relevant businesses.
Our investigator has referred to the standard terms and conditions of the loan at paragraph 
8.1.9. This paragraph deals with Representations and Warranties. What this particular 
paragraph does is to say that IL must not omit or withhold information or give information 
which could be misleading in any material respect. The material information Metro say was 
not disclosed was the Home Office investigation concerning immigration issues, and the 
local authority action resulting in the revocation of the liquor licenses.
The businesses operating from ILs premises were restaurant businesses and of course 
would rely to a degree on their respective liquor licences for the successful operation of each 
business. In my view the revocation of such licences is a material fact which is capable of 
affecting any lending decision. I also consider that a Home Office investigation of the type 
mentioned here, is also a material circumstance that a lender would wish to know of, since 
the outcome could lead to closure of the business. Although these actions and investigations 
were not against IL, through its director Mr M, IL knew of the circumstances and thus had 
material knowledge. As it failed to disclose that knowledge, I consider that is reasonable for 
Metro, under the terms of the loan agreement, to deem there to have been a defaulting 
event allowing them to demand immediate repayment of the loan. 
I acknowledge that IL has advanced a number of reasons to support what it believes to be a 
valid argument that Metros deemed default was without foundation. These have included 
but are not limited to; the value of ILs properties in relation to the loans; that IL maintained 
the loan repayments; the properties affected formed only a small percentage of the loan 
value overall, and that there was never any prospect of any of ILs tenants being unable to 
pay the rent. But such an argument overlooks that Metro was deprived of making that 
judgment for itself when IL failed to disclose the material information it had. 
IL believes Metro called in the loan. That is not the case. Metro did not issue a formal 
demand for repayment which I would see as such an action, rather it allowed IL time to make 
alternative arrangements for its borrowings. If Metro had issued a formal demand then on 
the balance of probabilities, the position for IL would have been much worse financially, 
since the consequences of such, as opposed to a voluntary repayment, always incur greater 
expense. 
I understand ILs argument that it was forced into the position of having to repay the loan by 
Metro, but I dont consider that to be correct. The position arose because IL breached the 
terms of the loan agreement and were faced with the choice of voluntarily repaying the loan 
or risking the consequences of Metro making a formal demand that they do. And they chose 
the former.
But to an extent this is a side issue, because IL agreed to the pay the prepayment fee in 
these very circumstances when it took out the loan. Metro issued a Facility Letter on 14 
August 2018 which set out the terms on which the loan was offered. This refers to a list of 
Events of Default in paragraph 10 of the Standard Terms. The Events of Default very 
clearly include a breach of warranty and any other event which Metro considers has a 
material effect on the business or financial condition of or prospects of IL. So, as there was a breach of warranty when IL failed to disclose the material information, that in turn is an Event 
of Default. And the Facility Letter states that on the occurrence of the Event of Default, the 
Loan and all interest, costs and other amounts payable under the finance documents 
become immediately repayable on demand. As the loan then becomes repayable before the 
scheduled repayment date, that triggers the prepayment Fee.
 
I have also considered whether Metro have acted fairly overall. First I have concluded that 
they were correct to deem there to have been an Event of Default. Secondly, I have 
concluded that Metro extended considerable latitude to IL by extending its first deadline by 
two weeks in May 2019, and then further to 21 June. That in turn was extended to 19 
December. This is evidence that Metro was acting fairly and working with IL to allow them 
time to refinance and make its voluntary repayment so as to avoid the position of a formal 
demand being made. 
I have also considered whether it was fair of Metro to charge an additional £10,000 
management fee, and I think it was. This fee was charged towards the end of a long period 
of extending the time for repayment of the loan. Metro didnt have to agree further time for IL 
to repay the loan and were open about this being a condition of doing so. IL agreed to it and 
of course had the option not to if it so wished. I think that in the context of the loan value, and 
the continuing work Metro faced in extending the time for repayment, that this agreed charge 
is fair.
So, although IL will probably be disappointed with my decision I cant say Metro has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman