DRN-1823073
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr M took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a high street store card 
during a store visit.
The policy provided protection for Mr M's store card payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy benefit was 15% of the 
outstanding account balance each month and it would pay out until Mr M returned to work or 
the balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00 for every £100 Mr M owed 
on the card.
At the time of the sale Mr M was employed, and he said he was entitled to less than three 
months' sick pay.  He said he had savings of less than three months' of his pay he could've 
used to make his repayments, and he was in good health at the time.
AXA's records show Mr M paid around £50 for PPI in total.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available evidence showed that Mr M chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing 
to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Because Mr M disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr M's case.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr M was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. My reasons are set out below.
 
did Mr M have a real choice about PPI?  I can see Mr M says he felt under pressure to take out PPI - he says he felt conned into 
thinking it was a good idea and that if he didn't take it out his card application wouldn't be 
agreed. I've therefore considered this carefully.
AXA has provided a copy of Mr M's store card application. Looking at this I can see there 
was a separate section about PPI, which required a customer to sign if they wanted to take 
out PPI - it says only sign if you want cover. And in Mr M's case he signed this section. If Mr 
M didn't want to take out PPI he could've left this section blank. 
I hear what Mr M says about feeling under pressure to take it out. But I've not seen enough 
evidence to support what he says - things happened a long time ago and the paperwork 
from the time supports Mr M being given a choice.
So, taking everything into account, on balance I think Mr M chose to take out PPI, and he did 
so without undue pressure. 
the information  
AXA says it didn't recommend or give advice to Mr M to take out PPI, and I've not seen 
anything to suggest that it did. So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable 
for Mr M. But it did have to give him enough clear and timely information about the policy, so 
he could make an informed decision about it.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave Mr 
M about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. I also accept that because the sale 
took place in a non-financial business there wasn't likely anything that could reasonably be 
described as a conversation about PPI.
But as I found above, I think Mr M likely chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for him - for example he was eligible for the cover; he wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and given his existing means it seems like 
it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr M off taking 
out the cover. 
This means I dont think Mr M has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
pay back to Mr M what he paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said in bringing his complaint. But these points dont 
change my decision - for the reasons I've given above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman