DRN-4506377
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc overcharged her interest on her mortgage by 
unfairly increasing the standard variable rate (SVR). And she complains about legal fees 
added to her mortgage balance.
What happened
Mrs D has a mortgage with BoI. She borrowed around £102,000 on interest only terms. The 
term of the mortgage came to an end in 2017, but Mrs D hasnt been able to repay the 
capital. She says that the property was in negative equity, having never recovered from 
house price falls around the time of the financial crisis.
Mrs D owns many other properties, including another residential property mortgaged to 
another lender  which is also out of term  and a portfolio of buy to let properties. Mrs D 
says that her buy to let portfolio is also in negative equity, so she hasnt been able to sell one 
of those properties to repay this mortgage.
Following the end of the term, and after discussions about repaying didnt result in an 
agreement, BoI took legal action against Mrs D. Mrs D then made a complaint that BoI 
hadnt treated her fairly following the end of the term, and wouldnt agree to a term 
extension.
I considered Mrs Ds complaint, but didnt uphold it. I issued a final decision, having 
considered all the evidence and arguments. In that decision I said
BoI had fairly engaged with Mrs D to try to find a way for the mortgage to be repaid  
beginning some years before the term actually ended.
Mrs D had wanted a term extension, if not for life then until age 75. She proposed to 
make overpayments in the meantime.  
BoI didnt agree that the property was in negative equity by this time. It thought that 
the loan to value was around 90%. So Mrs D could repay this mortgage by selling 
one or more of her other properties  or by selling this property. BoI was concerned 
that Mrs D wasnt actually living in this property; although Mrs D maintained that she 
was, I thought BoIs concerns were reasonable and supported by the evidence.
BoI said that Mrs D didnt have a plausible strategy for repaying the mortgage at the 
end of any extended term. I agreed that this was likely to be the case  it was likely 
that Mrs D would have to sell this property or other property to repay the mortgage 
sooner or later. Although Mrs D had said she would make overpayments, she hadnt 
in fact done so despite several offers to do so. 
Given Mrs Ds age and health (and that of her husband, who was not party to the 
mortgage), it wouldnt be in her best interests to postpone selling for several more 
years. By that time, Mrs D and Mr D would be older and might well be in worse 
health, there was no guarantee the property would increase in value and it might fall, 
and she would have paid significantly more interest in the meantime. As Mrs D had 
no plausible repayment strategy other than the sale of this or other property, I 
thought that  difficult as it might be  it was better for that to be done now. It would 
likely be more difficult at the end of any extended term.
BoI had given fair consideration to Mrs Ds proposals but had reasonably concluded 
that it couldnt agree to a term extension. It had offered reasonable forbearance, and 
had not acted unfairly in taking repossession proceedings when Mrs D didnt repay 
the mortgage. 
Mrs D brought a further complaint about her mortgage following the conclusion of that 
complaint. In this complaint she says that BoI has unfairly charged her interest  in 
particular, because it has charged more than 2.5% above the Bank of England base rate 
even though the mortgage offer said it wouldnt. And she says that BoI has acted unfairly in 
adding legal costs to the mortgage. The costs were excessive and unreasonable, Mrs D 
hadnt been given a breakdown or explanation of how they were incurred, and BoI had not 
acted fairly in taking legal proceedings rather than allow her to complain to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service as the pre-action protocol said it should.
Another ombudsman has decided our jurisdiction to deal with Mrs Ds complaint. The 
ombudsman said we could consider the fairness of the SVR from March 2015  which is six 
years before Mrs D made this complaint. In doing so we should consider all the 
circumstances of the case, including the history of the SVR and changes to it before March 
2015 insofar as they affect the fairness of the SVR charged after March 2015. And we can 
consider the legal fees added to the account. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. So she has 
asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to Mrs Ds complaint  the interest rate and the legal fees  and Ill 
deal with each in turn.
The interest rate
My fellow ombudsman decided that we can only consider the fairness of the interest rate 
since March 2015. I agree with her conclusions for the reasons she gave. I also agree that in 
considering the fairness of the interest rate since March 2015 its necessary to look at all the 
circumstances of the case, including changes to the SVR before March 2015 which impact 
on the fairness of the interest rate charged after that date.
Mrs D took her mortgage out in 2007. Her mortgage had a fixed rate for the first three years, 
with the SVR applying from 1 September 2010. At the time she took the mortgage out, the 
SVR was 7.84%.
The mortgage offer included a special condition, which said:
Unless we give you notice to the contrary, our standard variable rate (SVR) will not 
exceed Bank of England Base Rate plus 2.5% during any period when you are being 
charged interest on the loan at SVR (or any rate which is set by reference to SVR) 
and during which you may be obliged to pay an early repayment charge in accordance with this Offer (except for up to thirty days after the announcement by the 
Bank of England of any change in its Base Rate). If we give you notice that SVR will 
exceed Bank of England Base Rate plus 2.5% and you are paying us interest at SVR 
(or a rate which is set by reference to SVR) when such notice is given, then if you 
repay the loan in full during the period of ninety days following the date of the notice, 
you will not be obliged to pay us any early repayment charge specified in this Offer. 
You will be taken to have received a notice from us under this condition if we have 
sent it by post either to the property or to your last known address.
Mrs D says that this means that BoI couldnt charge her an SVR that was set at more than 
2.5% above Bank of England base rate, and because BoI did in fact charge more than that 
from 2012, it was acting unfairly.
But I dont think thats what the special condition says. It said that the SVR will not exceed 
Bank of England Base Rate plus 2.5% during any period when you are being charged 
interest on the loan at SVR and during which you may be obliged to pay an early 
repayment charge. In other words, the cap of 2.5% above base rate only applies where 
Mrs D is both paying the SVR and is subject to an early repayment charge (ERC). 
The mortgage offer says that an ERC only applied until 31 August 2010, while Mrs D was on 
the fixed rate. There was no period where she was on the SVR and also subject to an ERC  
and therefore no period when the cap of 2.5% above base rate applied to her mortgage. 
When Mrs D reverted to the SVR, in September 2010, it was 2.99% - having fallen to that 
level from the 7.84% it was set at when she took the mortgage out in 2007. At the time base 
rate was 0.5%, and so the SVR was 2.49% above base rate. Even though Mrs Ds own 
mortgage wasnt subject to the cap of 2.5% above base rate, therefore, in practice the SVR 
was set at that level.
In 2012, BoI increased the SVR, first to 3.99% in June of that year, then to 4.49% in 
September. There was no change to base rate at this time, so the margin between base rate 
and the SVR increased from 2.49% to 3.49% and then to 3.99%.
Im satisfied that in increasing the SVR in this way, BoI did not act in breach of the special 
condition in Mrs Ds mortgage offer. As she was not subject to an ERC at the time, the cap 
of 2.5% above base rate did not apply and by increasing the SVR to more than 2.5% above 
base rate, BoI was not therefore acting in breach of the cap.
As well as the special conditions in the mortgage offer, Mrs Ds mortgage was also subject to 
the general terms and conditions. The general terms and conditions limit how BoI can 
change the interest rate. They say:
We may change the standard variable rate at any time for one or more of the 
following reasons:
- to reflect changes in our cost of funds (i.e. the cost of borrowing the money we 
use in our mortgage lending business), for example, caused by changes in 
market interest rates or by other factors outside our control;
- to enable us to increase the rate we pay to depositors to the level needed to 
retain their money;
- to reflect changes in the interest rates which other mortgage lenders charge on 
residential mortgage loans (including buy to let mortgage loans);- to ensure that the amount we receive from borrowers will enable us to maintain a 
prudent level of reserves and to meet any other regulatory requirements that 
apply to us;
- to ensure that the amount we receive from borrowers will enable us to maintain 
the long-term sustainability of our mortgage lending business; 
- to reflect changes in the costs we reasonably incur in administering borrowers 
accounts; 
- to reflect a change in the risk of shortfalls on borrowers' accounts which we 
reasonably believe to have occurred as a result of general economic factors; 
- to reflect any change in taxation which affects the profit we earn from our ordinary 
activities; 
- to reflect a change in the law, or in any code of practice which applies to us, or a 
decision or recommendation by a court, ombudsman or regulator.
Mrs D says that this is an unfair term within the meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations. Ive taken the regulations into account as relevant law. I dont think 
its likely a court would consider this to be an unfair term. Its not inherently unfair to have a 
term allowing the variation of an interest rate in a long-term mortgage contract, and this term 
is reasonably clear about the reasons for which the power to do so can be exercised. There 
was no ERC applicable to Mrs Ds mortgage at the time she was subject to the SVR and so 
no barrier to exit. In any case, I think the key question for me to decide is whether there was 
any unfairness to Mrs D in the interest rate she was charged after March 2015  which 
involves considering why BoI increased the SVR as well as its contractual power to do so.
BoI has explained to us why it increased the SVR in 2012. Weve received that information in 
confidence. Im satisfied its appropriate to do so, subject to providing the summary of that 
information which follows.
BoI has explained that while not all its mortgages were subject to a cap on the SVR (as, for 
example, Mrs Ds wasnt), in practice it managed its SVR by keeping within the cap. This 
meant that by the time of the end of the financial crisis the BoI SVR had fallen to 2.99% - 
significantly lower than the SVRs of most other comparable lenders. Most lenders had 
reduced the SVRs during the crisis as base rate fell, but had not reduced them to the same 
extent as falls in base rate  because at this time there was an increasing divergence 
between base rate and the cost of raising funds to lend on the wholesale markets. Those 
costs also fell, but did not fall to the same degree that base rate did.
Following the financial crisis, there was a change to prudential regulation of the banking 
industry in both the UK and Ireland. Those changes required banks to hold greater capital to 
offset their lending risk than had previously been the case. That meant that BoI had to 
increase its capital reserves. It was also subject to restrictions on the funds it raised to 
finance its mortgage lending business. 
Im therefore satisfied that the evidence shows that BoI needed to increase the amount it 
received from its borrowers to enable us to maintain a prudent level of reserves and to meet 
any other regulatory requirements that apply to us and to ensure that the amount we 
receive from borrowers will enable us to maintain the long-term sustainability of our 
mortgage lending business. The terms and conditions allow it to increase the SVR for those 
reasons. Im further satisfied that the amount of the increase was proportionate to the need 
for it. It follows that BoI was entitled, under the terms and conditions, to increase the SVR in 2012.
This means that by the start of the period I can consider, in March 2015, the SVR was 
4.49%. And for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think that was an unfair rate. 
Mrs D says that BoI should have reduced the SVR again after 2012. Once it had raised the 
capital it needed, it didnt need to keep doing so and could have reduced the rate. Ive 
considered this. But I note that the terms and conditions permit BoI to change the SVR  but 
dont require it to do so. And I dont think it acted unfairly in not reducing the SVR in the 
period I can consider, from March 2015. The reasons for the increase werent a one off; it 
had an ongoing need to maintain a prudent level of capital to comply with its regulatory 
obligations and to meet the cost of its funding.
Since March 2015, up to when Mrs D made this complaint, the SVR has varied only at the 
same time as, and to the same extent as, changes in the Bank of England base rate. The 
terms and conditions allow it to change the SVR to reflect changes in market rates that 
impact its cost of funds. I dont think these changes to the SVR were unfair.
Taking all that into account, I dont uphold this part of the complaint. Mrs Ds mortgage was 
not subject to a cap on the SVR at any point, so BoI did not act in breach of the offer in 
charging her an interest rate that was more than 2.5% above base rate from March 2015 
onwards. Nor was the interest charged unfair for any other reason; changes before March 
2015 that led to the rate being set at the level it was in March 2015 were in line with the 
terms and conditions, as were the changes to the SVR from March 2015 onwards. Im not 
persuaded that BoI charged Mrs D interest unfairly from March 2015 onwards.
The legal fees
In my previous final decision I found that BoI had acted fairly and reasonably at the end of 
the mortgage term in trying to reach an arrangement with Mrs D for her mortgage to be 
repaid within a reasonable time. I found that it was reasonable for BoI to decline Mrs Ds 
proposal for a lengthy term extension when there was no prospect of repaying the mortgage 
at the end of an extended term that wasnt already available to her, and a term extension 
risked making a bad situation worse. And I found that in light of that it was reasonable that 
BoI had started legal proceedings as a last resort when no agreement could be reached. 
Im not going to revisit those conclusions in this decision. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, a final decision is just that  final. Where a matter has been decided in 
a previous complaint, we wouldnt revisit it or re-open the complaint unless there is material 
new evidence, likely to affect the outcome, which has since become available. Thats not the 
case here. There is no new evidence that wasnt available when I made my previous 
decision.
That being the case, I am not considering here whether it was fair and reasonable for BoI to 
take legal action in 2018. Ive already decided it was. But I will consider whether later action, 
and the addition of the costs of legal action (including the action in 2018) to the mortgage 
balance, were fair and reasonable.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ds mortgage say, at section 14
(a) In this condition, costs means:
(i) all costs, charges and expenses (including VAT) we reasonably incur in 
connection with the mortgage deed or the security it gives us, including (but 
not limited to) the examples given in condition 14(b); and(ii) any administration fees we charge under condition 14(c).
(b) Examples of the costs, charges and expenses mentioned in condition 14(a) are:
- the costs of any legal proceedings brought by or against you or anyone else 
in connection with the mortgage deed, the property, the security the mortgage 
deed gives us or the valuation of the property;
- the costs of recovering money secured by the mortgage deed, protecting or 
preserving the property or the security the mortgage deed gives us or 
exercising any of our rights and powers under the general law or these 
conditions;

(d) You must pay our costs in full so long as they are reasonably incurred and are 
reasonable in amount.
(e) You must pay our costs when we ask for them.
(f) If we incur any costs, we will charge interest on them under condition 6(a) from the 
date on which we ask you to pay them under condition 14(e).
There is also a special condition in the mortgage offer which says:
Condition 14(d) of our Residential Mortgage Conditions is amended by this Offer so 
that the existing words in 14(d) are deleted and replaced with the following You must 
pay our costs on what is called the indemnity basis. This means that you must pay 
them in full unless they were unreasonably incurred or are unreasonable in amount.
This means that under the terms and conditions, BoI is entitled to add to the mortgage 
balance the costs of legal proceedings, unless it was unreasonable to incur them, or unless 
they are unreasonable in amount. The terms and conditions are relevant for me to take into 
account in deciding whether BoI has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
When no agreement could be reached in 2018, BoI referred Mrs Ds mortgage to its 
solicitors for legal action to be taken. It instructed solicitors in July 2018, and the solicitors 
prepared for and issued legal proceedings. 
In December 2018 a court date was set for January 2019, and Mrs D complained to BoI. In 
January 2019 Mrs D told BoI that she intended to bring her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and asked for the court proceedings to be stayed. BoI agreed to a stay 
 but the bank and Mrs D couldnt agree to the terms on which they would be stayed. Mrs D 
wanted an indefinite stay, but BoI would only agree to a three month stay. In February 2019 
the court stayed the proceedings until June for us to consider Mrs Ds complaint.
In July 2019 our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. As she didnt respond, we 
closed the case file. BoI returned the case to its solicitors to resume legal action and a court 
date was set for March 2020.
Just before the hearing, Mrs D got back in touch with us and said that she didnt agree with 
the investigators view and wanted an ombudsman to review her complaint. BoI agreed to 
adjourn the hearing for a month, until April 2020. 
By then, the coronavirus pandemic had begun. One of the measures for the duration of the pandemic was a moratorium on possession proceedings. So BoI took no action during 2020. 
In 2021 Mrs D brought this complaint, and BoI has not taken further action pending the 
outcome of the complaint.
The legal fees were therefore incurred in respect of the court action between 2018 and 2020. 
Ive already said, in my previous decision, that it wasnt unreasonable for BoI to have begun 
legal action in 2018 when no agreement for repayment of the mortgage could be reached. 
BoI then agreed to stay the proceedings to allow Mrs D to bring her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. It only resumed proceedings when our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint and, because Mrs D didnt reply, the complaint appeared to be at an 
end. The proceedings were stayed again when Mrs D requested an ombudsmans decision 
just before the re-listed hearing. 
The following costs have been added to the mortgage balance:
Invoice date Amount Detail
16 January 
2019£814.60 Includes £355 court fee and Land Registry search fees
19 February 
2019£3,091.20 Includes preparation for and attendance at the February 
2019 hearing on whether the proceedings should be 
stayed and for how long. Total legal fees £3,270 plus 
VAT, capped to £2,500 plus VAT, plus disbursements
26 March 
2019£414 Work following the hearing in February
25 April 2019 £360 Various emails
24 May 2019 £414 Updating on progress on complaint to Financial 
Ombudsman Service
29 October 
2019£162 Contacting Mrs D and matters arising
27 February 
2020£864 Work done to re-start proceedings ahead of March 2020 
hearing
23 March 
2020£2,793.60 Preparing for March 2020 hearing, adjourned at the last 
minute when Mrs D requested an ombudsmans 
decision
 
Im satisfied that BoI actually incurred these costs, and that it was reasonable to do so. Of 
the two larger invoices, the first relates to the initial hearing that was stayed when Mrs D 
brought her complaint. Before that, she had requested adjournments because she was going 
to be away, and there was also disagreement about how long the stay should be. I think the 
costs are reasonable in relation to the amount of work done at this time. The second larger 
invoice relates to the re-started proceedings in 2020. The March 2020 hearing was listed 
and prepared for, and only adjourned at the last minute  because Mrs D requested an 
ombudsmans decision just before the hearing, even though it was several months after the 
investigator had given her outcome. Again, I think these costs were reasonable in the circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied that under the terms and conditions BoI was entitled to add its costs to 
the mortgage balance. Those costs reflected work that was actually done, in circumstances 
where it was reasonable for BoI to take legal action because no agreement to repay the 
mortgage had been reached. The costs are larger than they might otherwise be because 
Mrs D repeatedly requested adjournments and a final decision at the last minute. I dont 
think the sums BoI has added to the balance are unreasonable in all the circumstances and 
so I dont uphold this part of the complaint either.
Now that Mrs Ds complaint is at an end, and the coronavirus moratorium has ended, its 
possible that BoI will restart proceedings. I hope Mrs D has used the time since the last 
action in 2020 to find a way to repay the mortgage balance. If she has new proposals, BoI 
will need to give them fair consideration, bearing in mind repossession is a last resort. But it 
is entitled to expect the mortgage to be repaid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman