DRN-3571105
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Background
In July 2021, Mr B applied for an HSBC bank account. HSBC was concerned that Mr B 
made material misrepresentations in the personal information he provided. So it declined         
Mr Bs application and also recorded a fraud prevention marker against him -  in particular, 
HSBC was concerned that Mr B had said he lived at his current address since 1 April 2018 
but it had information, which in its view, demonstrated that he had lived at two further 
addresses, which he hadnt disclosed, since then. 
Mr B complained after learning that HSBC had recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. HSBC looked at Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr B remained dissatisfied, 
he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. He thought that HSBC had unfairly 
recorded the fraud prevention marker against Mr B, as it hadnt met the evidential 
requirements to do so. HSBC didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment. So the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next stage of our 
dispute resolution process.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that there was application fraud  
relating to Mr B using his real name but providing other false information in an application for 
a financial product. In order to file such a marker, it isnt required to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show that there 
are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain their version of events in order to understand their 
level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Bs complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show that Mr B did provide materially false information. Secondly, HSBC also 
needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr B was deliberately dishonest when doing so 
and that any discrepancies werent simply down to a mistake or misunderstanding. Its also 
important to note HSBC had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for it to 
have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, I dont think that HSBC did have enough to record the fraud 
marker it did. 
I firstly say this because HSBC hasnt provided me with anything to indicate that it obtained 
Mr Bs version of events before recording the marker. I accept it believed the information it 
obtained from credit reference agencies indicated that Mr B had failed to disclose addresses 
that hed lived at. But at best this, on its own, is only really enough to trigger suspicion or 
concern and it doesnt clearly demonstrate that Mr B was deliberately dishonest. Indeed, I 
have to question how HSBC could possibly have assessed Mr Bs knowledge and intention 
before it recorded the fraud marker against him when it looks like it didnt speak to him 
before doing so - arguably this in itself is unfair.
In any event, Im not persuaded that the information HSBC has provided actually clearly 
demonstrates that Mr B did provide false information when making his application for a bank 
account. HSBC has said it considers Mr B provided false information because he said that 
he lived at the address he provided on his application, which Ill refer to as address A, since 
1 April 2018. It says this is false because the credit checks it carried out show that Mr B had 
adverse credit information recorded at two other addresses after this date. 
Ive looked at the information provided. And I agree that adverse information was recorded 
on an account registered to a second address, which Ill refer to as address B, on 26 August 
2020 and on an account registered to a third address, which Ill refer to as address C, on    
31 May 2019. Its clear that the adverse information on the accounts registered at addresses 
B and C was recorded after 1 April 2018. 
However, Im mindful that the same credit search information also shows that account B was 
opened in February 2017 and account C was opened in March 2018. So both of these 
accounts were opened prior to the date that Mr B said he moved to address A. Furthermore, 
the credit search information also shows that Mr B was removed from the electoral roll at 
address B in December 2018 and removed from the electoral roll at address C in January 
2018. So Mr B was removed from the electoral roll at both addresses well in advance of the 
adverse information, which HSBC is relying on, having been recorded. And in the case of 
address C Mr B was removed from the electoral roll before the date he said he moved to 
address A. 
In my view, the information provided, at best, demonstrates that Mr B may have failed to 
keep some of his creditors up to date with his change of address  although he has said that 
address B is where his mother continued to live (which is supported by the electoral roll 
information HSBC has provided) and address C is where his grandmother lives. But given 
the accounts HSBC are referring to were opened before he says he moved address, Im 
satisfied what was recorded in relation to them and when, which appears to form the basis of 
HSBCs decision to record a fraud marker, dont in themselves conclusively demonstrate that 
Mr B provided false information.      
Id also question why Mr B would have dishonestly answered when he moved to address A, 
given that a significant amount of adverse information was, in any event, recorded against 
him at address A, when he made his application to HSBC. In these circumstances, it is 
difficult for me to see what benefit Mr B wouldve seen by withholding addresses with adverse information linked to them, when HSBC would have seen adverse information at 
address A anyway. 
Of course, I accept it is possible that Mr B intentionally tried to deceive HSBC in the way it 
says it did. And that was enough for it to be suspicious or concerned. But the important thing 
here it that is HSBCs responsibility to demonstrate that Mr B knowingly and dishonestly 
provided false information. And I think that it has failed to do that here. 
HSBC needed to have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to 
the police. Simply pointing out that adverse information was recorded against Mr B, at 
different addresses, at a time he says he was living somewhere else  especially where it 
didnt obtain Mr Bs version of events this and it hasnt even shown us how its question on 
address history was framed - just isnt enough to meet what is a high bar. This is especially 
the case seeing as the facts and circumstances of this case appear to support Mr Bs 
explanation being plausible.   
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC had sufficient evidence to 
meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Mr B. As this is the case, I think that it was 
unfair for HSBC to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. So Im 
upholding Mr Bs complaint and HSBC needs to remove any and all fraud markers it has 
recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman