DRN-1457370
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs E the policy when they took out a loan secured on their property 
in 1998. Although the loan was taken in Mr and Mrs Es joint names the policy covered Mrs 
E only. The policy covered Mrs E if she lost her job for up to 12 months or was unable to 
work due to accident or sickness until the end of the loan term.
Our adjudicator didnt think their complaint should be upheld because he thought the 
paperwork presented the PPI as optional and thought the PPI wouldve been of benefit to
Mr and Mrs E.
Mr and Mrs E disagree. They say the terms and conditions of the policy werent explained 
clearly and they didnt need PPI. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
The policy was sold over the phone. Unfortunately Nationwide dont have a call recording of 
the sale but I think thats understandable given the amount of time that has passed. So I 
cant say exactly what was said at the time the PPI was sold.
So to decide how the PPI was presented, Ive considered what Mr and Mrs E have said 
along with what Nationwide have said about its sales process and any documents weve 
been given from the time of sale. 
Nationwide say that its sales process wouldve been followed and that Mr and Mrs E 
wouldve been given enough information to decide if they wanted to take the PPI. Nationwide 
say that the PPI wouldve only been included on the credit agreement if Mr and Mrs E had 
consented to it.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Es signed credit agreement which I can see clearly sets out 
the cost of the loan separately from the PPI and has a separate box displaying the PPI cost 
describing it as Optional Credit Insurance. I dont think Nationwide wouldve included PPI on the credit agreement if Mr and Mrs E 
hadnt agreed to it. 
And I think if Mr and Mrs E hadnt agreed to take out PPI or thought they had no choice in 
taking the PPI they wouldve questioned why it was included and described as optional 
within the agreement. So I think its likely Mr and Mrs E received the loan agreement with 
PPI on it because they chose to take the loan with PPI.
Nationwide didnt advise Mr and Mrs E to take the policy. What this means is that it didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs E, it just gave them information about PPI. This information 
needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so that Mr and Mrs E 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
From what I can see on the credit agreement I think the cost of the PPI was clear, but I dont 
know if the other information given was good enough. But in saying that I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference because I still think Mr and Mrs E wouldve taken out the policy 
because at the time they took out the loan:
From the information I have, theres nothing to suggest Mrs E wasnt eligible for the 
PPI. And it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions 
in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
Although Mrs E says she had a good level of sick pay and savings she could use if 
she was unable to work, I think the PPI still provided them with a useful benefit. A 
successful claim wouldve paid out in addition to any cover they had in place and for 
potentially longer as well as filling any gaps in Mrs Es work benefits such as if she 
was made redundant. 
 
And given the loan was secured on their property I think they wouldve wanted to 
make sure they could keep up with their payments if Mrs E was unable to work.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable and they couldve cancelled the 
policy if they no longer wanted it.  
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to
Mr and Mrs E. I think they wouldve still taken the PPI as it was of value to them. And 
because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs E are any worse off as a result of any wrong doing 
by Nationwide.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint against
Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman