DRN-2930557
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Gresham Insurance Company Ltd handled and settled a claim he
made under his home insurance policy for storm damage to his property.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 19 August 2021  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought Gresham had acted reasonably and 
fairly. And I outlined the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I said:
What happened
Mr P held a household insurance policy, which is provided by Gresham. On 18 November 
2020, he notified Gresham that there was water coming in through his ceiling. He told 
Gresham that a roofer had informed him that the water ingress had been caused by wind 
blowing rainwater underneath his roof tiles. Mr P thought his had happened following a 
storm. But he wasnt able to say when the storm had occurred.
Gresham checked the available online images of Mr Ps property and thought the 
condition of his roof was reasonable save for the accumulation of some moss. But it noted 
the images werent recent. So, it checked the weather recorded within Mr Ps locality 
within the past three months to determine whether there had been any storms during that 
period.
After consulting weather records, Gresham informed Mr P that the maximum wind speed 
reported had been 46 mph. It therefore wasnt persuaded thered been a storm and it 
didnt think the water ingress had happened as a result of a one-off event. So, Gresham 
informed Mr P it wouldnt consider his claim.
Mr P asked Gresham to instruct a buildings assessor to inspect his roof as he thought he 
held cover for multiple call outs. But Gresham told Mr P it wasnt going to ask a surveyor 
to attend his property because it wasnt persuaded that an insured event had taken place. 
It did, however, explain to Mr P that it would reconsider his claim if he provided it with 
photographs of his roof and a cause of damage report from an independent roofer.
Gresham said that Mr P refused to obtain or provide the evidence it had requested. So, it 
maintained its decision to repudiate his claim. And it sent Mr P a f letter, dated
24 November 2020, in which it explained its repudiation reasons.
Being dissatisfied with how Gresham had dealt with his claim, Mr P referred a complaint 
to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended 
upholding this complaint. He didnt think Gresham had dealt with Mr Ps claim fairly. 
While he didnt think the water ingress had happened as a result of a one-off storm 
event, he thought Gresham ought to have sent a surveyor to inspect Mr Ps property. 
And he also thought Gresham should have considered whether Mr P had a valid 
accidental damage claim.
In order to resolve this complaint, our investigator recommended that Gresham pay Mr P
£100 compensation to apologise for the way in which it had dealt with his claim. And he 
asked Gresham to reassess Mr Ps claim under the accidental damage cover he had 
held. Gresham disagreed with our investigators view of this complaint and requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is 
here, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all 
the information provided by Mr P and Gresham but Ill concentrate my decision on what I 
think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role, here, is to assess whether I think Gresham made a mistake, or treated Mr P 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully 
about everything he and Gresham have said, Im departing from some of the 
conclusions our investigator reached when he assessed this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Theres no dispute that there was water ingress within Mr Ps property. But 
theres disagreement between him and Gresham about the cause of the water 
ingress and the correct outcome of this claim.
Mr P believes the water ingress was caused by adverse weather  namely a storm. His 
policy with Gresham provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might 
happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for a claim 
to be successful, Mr P would have to show that the damage hes claiming for was caused 
by one of the perils listed in his policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim 
for storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr Ps complaint and all the evidence with these three questions 
in mind. I should also clarify that all three questions must be answered affirmatively 
for this service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that our investigator stated in his view that 
storm in defined as an unusual weather event with persistent high winds, normally 
exceeding 55 mph. Ive carefully read Mr Ps insurance policy but havent been able to 
identify any definition of what Gresham considers to be a storm within that policy. So, Im 
not persuaded that what our investigator said about what constitutes a storm was correct.Where the term storm isnt defined in an insurance policy, this service takes the view that 
a storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. When 
looking a wind speed, we generally consider wind speeds of 47 mph or above to be 
consistent with a storm. So, this is what Ive thought about when deciding whether there 
were storm conditions on or around the date of Mr Ps claim.
Like our investigator, Ive checked the weather reports relevant to Mr Ps locality for storm 
conditions in the three months prior to the date he notified Gresham that he wanted to 
make a claim. These reports show that the highest wind speeds recorded were 57 mph. 
But this was on 25 August 2020. There are no wind speeds that exceed 46 mph after that 
time.
While the wind speeds recorded on 25 August 2020 meet the criteria that our service 
would consider to be a storm, this was just under three months before Mr P notified 
Gresham that there was water ingress within this home. I think that if this period of bad 
weather had caused the water ingress Mr P reported, hed have noticed it sooner than 18 
November 2020. Im therefore not satisfied, based on the available weather reports, that 
there was a storm at around the time the water ingress was observed by Mr P. It follows 
that Im not persuaded that I can answer question one affirmatively.
As Ive been unable to answer question one affirmatively, I cant fairly conclude that the 
water ingress Mr P reported to Gresham was caused by a one-off identifiable storm event 
as his policy requires.
I can see that Gresham directed Mr P to obtain a cause of damage report and provide 
photographs from a roofer if he wanted it to reconsider his claim. I dont think this 
request was unreasonable given that Gresham couldnt identify any evidence of a 
storm based on the information that was available to it at that time.
Im aware that Mr P wouldnt have been able to, of course, ascend his roof to take the 
photographs that Gresham had requested. But hed already had a roofer attend his 
property to inspect his roof, who could have taken photographs on his behalf. And I 
havent seen any evidence that shows Mr P was prevented from instructing the 
independent roofer that Gresham asked him to instruct to take photographs and provide a 
cause of damage report. Im satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that if Gresham had been 
provided with this information it would have reconsidered the prospects of his claim.
Our investigator thought Gresham ought to have sent a buildings inspector to assess Mr 
Ps roof. But I dont agree. It had already consulted weather records, which didnt show 
any evidence of a storm recent to the date of Mr Ps claim. And, as Ive already explained, 
the onus is on a policyholder to show that the damage theyre claiming for was caused by 
one of the perils listed in their policy. I therefore cant fairly conclude that Gresham acted 
unfairly in asking Mr P to provide the information it requested. And, as he didnt do so, I 
cant say it acted unreasonably in maintaining its decision to repudiate this claim.
In the overall circumstances of this claim, I havent seen evidence that shows the 
water ingress was caused by a one-off storm event as Mr Ps policy requires. And this 
means I cant direct Gresham to settle his claim for storm damage.
I can see that our investigator thought Gresham ought to have considered Mr Ps claim 
under the accidental damage part of his policy. And he thought Gresham should pay Mr 
P £100 compensation in recognition of the fact that it didnt progress his claim in this  
way.Accidental damage is defined in Mr Ps policy as damage caused suddenly and 
unexpectedly by an outside force. The business records that Gresham provided our 
service document the discussions it had with Mr P about his claim. Ive looked at 
whether Gresham ought to have considered Mr Ps claim under the accidental damage 
part of his policy based on the information hed provided. I can see from discussions 
with Mr P that he told Gresham:
I have a leak in my roof. The wind has apparently blown rain underneath my tiles and its 
coming through my roof now. Its a pitched tiled roof. I dont know when it happened but I 
had a roofer out to look and he told me that it was coming underneath the roof and causing 
it to sink slightly.
Based on the account Mr P gave Gresham theres nothing to indicate that the water 
ingress was caused by anything other than a potential storm. Theres nothing to indicate 
that the leak may have occurred as a result of accidental damage. And Mr P didnt say his 
roofer had informed him that there was something sudden and unexpected that had 
caused the leak he was reporting to Gresham.
In the overall circumstances of this claim, I dont think Gresham did anything wrong by 
considering this claim under the storm peril. And because Mr P didnt provide any further 
information (such as photographs or a cause of damage report) Im not persuaded it was 
reasonable for Gresham to explore whether he had cover under the accidental damage 
part of his policy.
I know Mr P will be disappointed with this provisional decision. I know he feels very 
strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. And I appreciate the reasons why he 
brought his complaint to our service. But for the reasons outlined, my provisional decision 
is that Im not persuaded Gresham acted unfairly in how it dealt with this claim.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
Gresham responded to confirm it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add. In his response, Mr P stated that he was unhappy with the provisional 
decision he had drafted. He stated that he wasnt willing to go up on the roof and risk injury. 
And he said hed spoken to other insurers who informed him that Gresham should have 
done a trace and fix. He said he felt I had sided with his Gresham and that if he was 
wealthy it would have been a different outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr P may be disappointed that Ive departed from what an investigator 
previously said about his complaint. Im sorry to see he doesnt think Ive assessed the 
evidence in his complaint fairly and feels Ive sided with his insurer. 
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mr P that, in considering his 
complaint, Ive thought very carefully about what happened here. Having taken that 
approach, Im satisfied my decision is fair to both him and Gresham  as it should be.Ive taken on board all of the comments Mr P made in response to my provisional decision  
and Ive reconsidered all of the evidence our service received. Mr P has provided comments 
on my provisional decision. But he hasnt provided further evidence to our service.
In Mr Ps response he stated that he wasnt willing to ascend his roof and risk injury in order 
to take photographs of the condition of his roof. But, in my provisional decision, I 
acknowledged that there was no expectation from this service that he take that action. I 
stated that hed already had a roofer attend his property to inspect his roof, who could have 
taken photographs on his behalf. I also commented that I hadnt seen any evidence that 
shows Mr P was prevented from instructing the independent roofer that Gresham asked him 
to instruct to take photographs and provide a cause of damage report. 
I remain satisfied that if Gresham had been provided with the information it had requested it 
would have reconsidered the prospects of Mr Ps claim. I also remain persuaded that 
Gresham gave Mr P a fair opportunity to show evidence of the condition of his roof. I dont 
think it could have offered any further assistance to Mr P in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint.
Im grateful to Mr P for his comments. But I remain persuaded that Greshams decision to 
repudiate this claim was reached reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr 
Ps policy. Im still satisfied that Mr Ps complaint shouldnt be upheld and I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman