DRN-4076917
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, have applied a higher rate of 
interest to a money transfer he made from his Halifax credit account than they should have.
What happened
Mr C transferred money from his Halifax credit account to his Halifax current account. When 
doing so, he selected an option that provided a balance transfer with 0% interest and a 5% 
transfer fee. However, he later discovered that Halifax had applied a different option to his 
transfer, and because of this he was charged a 5% transfer fee but the balance outstanding 
on his credit account incurred interest at 21.46% per annum. Mr C wasnt happy about this, 
so he raised a complaint.
Halifax responded to Mr C and said that hed instructed the money transfer online and had 
selected and accepted the 5% transfer fee and the 21.46% interest rate when doing so. 
However, Halifax did apologise to Mr C for not responding to his complaint as quickly as they 
should have done, and they made a payment of £40 to him as compensation for any trouble 
and upset their late response may have caused. Mr C wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the response to Mr Cs complaint 
that Halifax had issued already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr C 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Halifax have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration.
It's notable from reviewing this complaint that Mr C appears to use the terms balance 
transfer and money transfer interchangeably. However, it these two terms refer to different 
types of transfer from a credit account and are not the same thing.
A balance transfer is where money is transferred from one credit account to another credit 
account. A money transfer is where money is transferred from a credit account to a current 
account. And it must be noted that, in general, money transfers to current accounts usually 
attract less favourable interest rates than balance transfers to other credit accounts.
In this instance, Mr C transferred an amount from his credit account to his current account. 
This is a money transfer, and it cant be considered as a balance transfer because the 
destination of the money wasnt another credit account.
Mr C has explained that when he instructed the transfer, he selected a balance transfer 
which provided 0% interest and a 5% transfer fee. And Halifax have confirmed that such an 
offer was available at that time for balance transfers. 
But Mr C didnt complete a balance transfer, but instead completed a money transfer to his 
current account. And so that offer which was available to balance transfers at that time 
wasnt applicable for the money transfer that Mr C made.
Halifax have also been able to demonstrate that they didnt have any offers available to their 
customers for money transfers when Mr C instructed the money transfer beyond the transfer 
terms which Im satisfied that their internal systems show that Mr C selected  which 
included a 5% transfer fee and a 21.46% interest rate.
Mr C may not have been aware of the distinction between a money transfer and a balance 
transfer when he was instructing the transfer. But given that Mr C did instruct a money 
transfer to his current account  and not a balance transfer to another credit account  and 
given that the option Mr C is unhappy at not receiving here was an offer only applicable to 
balance transfers, I dont feel that it could ever have been the case that Mr C could have 
benefited from that balance transfer offer regarding the money transfer he instructed.
Indeed, given that the only money transfer terms available to Halifax customers at the time 
of the transfer included the interest rate of 21.46%, Im satisfied that the only possible way 
Mr C could have instructed a money transfer to his Halifax current account as he did was by 
accepting  whether he was aware of it or not  the terms of the money transfer which 
include the 21.46% interest rate. And as explained, this is supported by Halifaxs own 
systems which also show that Mr C accepted and agreed to those money transfer terms. 
As such, I feel that whats most likely happened here is that Mr C wasnt aware when he was 
considering the balance transfer and money transfer offers available to him that the balance 
transfer offers werent applicable to the type of transfer he wanted to instruct. And, that when 
Mr C did instruct the money transfer, he didnt  for whatever reason  realise or understand 
that he had to select and accept the money transfer terms, including the 21.46% interest 
rate, to allow the money transfer to be completed. And ultimately, I am satisfied from the 
information available to me that Mr C did select and accept those money transfer terms. 
If Mr C wasnt aware that he had selected the money transfer terms, for the reasons Ive 
proposed above or for similar reasons, then that is unfortunate. But I dont feel that its unfair. 
This is because, as explained, Mr C could only instruct a money transfer to his current 
account, as he did do, on acceptance of the money transfer terms available to him at that 
time  which included a 5% transfer fee and an interest rate of 21.46%.
All of which means that I dont feel that Halifax have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
here and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to 
take any further action.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman