DRN-3207750
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA)
automatically renewed his motor breakdown cover policy without his authority.  
What happened
Mr H took out a policy with AA through its website in April 2019. In April 2020 AA
automatically renewed his insurance. They took a premium of £191.44 for the year ahead
from Mr Hs account, details of which it held on file. In December 2020 Mr H complained to
AA about the renewal and taking payment without his authority. He said that he had not
received a renewal letter.
AA stated that they had sent a renewal letter to Mr Hs current address in February 2020, so
they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr H wasnt happy and asked us to look into things and he wanted a full refund of the 2020
premium. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that AA provided a copy of
the renewal letter and their system screenprints. Looking at these, he thought that AA had
done all the service would expect of them in notifying Mr H about what would happen.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He reiterated that he hadnt received the renewal
letter and that hed arranged alternative cover before the AA renewal date. He said that it
wouldnt have made sense to do this if he was aware of the AA renewal. The matter was 
therefore passed to me in order to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman.
In November 2021, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I 
was minded to uphold Mr Hs complaint as follows; -
What I need to determine is whether AA have acted fairly and reasonably in the actions
taken to automatically renew Mr Hs policy. In order to do this, I need to be sure that AA
provided Mr H with enough information to make him aware of what was going to happen with
his policy in 2020. I dont think they have acted fairly and reasonably in all respects and Ill
explain why.
I can see from the information provided, that Mr H signed up for cover with AA in early April
2019. AAs letter confirming cover stated; We will automatically renew your Membership
next year using the card details shown below, unless you tell us otherwise and As you have
chosen to pay by continuous card, we will automatically renew your Membership each year
using the card details you provided shown above, unless you tell us otherwise. Well send
your new quote at least 3 weeks before payment is taken giving you enough time to make
changes or cancel should you wish.
Mr H confirmed by e-mail in April 2019 that he didnt wish automatic renewal to take place;
Can I request the membership not to be auto-renewed. I prefer to call in if I want to renew it.
AA responded that they were more than happy to remove the automatic renewal. It made the
point that if they completed this action immediately, Mr H might not receive the benefit of a
cashback arrangement. It said that if Mr H e-mailed again once the cashback has been
received, they could take the auto renewal off the membership at that point. Mr H 
responded; Ok, thanks. I wasnt aware of this requirement. Thats fine, I shall wait until the
cashback has been processed as advised.
Mr H says that he did contact AA by telephone at the end of 2019 to confirm that he wanted
the policy to be cancelled. AA state that they have no system record to confirm this and have
provided evidence of their system notes. AA state that the payment was therefore collected
automatically at the policy expiry date as it had received no further e-mails.
AA said they wrote to Mr H at the address which they had on file in February 2020 about
automatic renewal and payment collection. They state that it was not returned to them
marked as undelivered. Ive seen a copy of that letter and it states; Congratulations  youre
about to become a Silver Member of the AA. It also says that Mr Hs membership comes up
for renewal at the beginning of April 2020 and; To take up this offer and save money, please
get in touch before 1st April 2020.
Mr H said that he didnt receive this letter. He says that hes been working from home
throughout the covid pandemic and that he would have noticed this document. He queried
why he didnt receive any renewal information via e-mail as he signed up for his policy online
in 2019. AAs response was that as a regulated business, it sent these by post only.
Its not necessary for me to reach a conclusion as to whether the renewal letter should have
been sent by e-mail as well as post. Nor is it necessary for me to reach a conclusion as to
whether the letter was actually sent and received. This is because AAs letter in February
2020 doesnt make it clear that the policy will automatically renew in April 2020. It gives the
impression that in order to take up the offer of enhanced membership and renewal, it
required specific contact from the policyholder. Mr H didnt make this specific contact. The
letter also doesnt give notice of the fact that it will take £191.44 out of Mr Hs account. It
simply refers to a lesser sum if the policyholder chooses to take up the offer.
In the circumstances, my preliminary conclusion is that AA didnt provide Mr H with clarity. It
didnt provide enough information to make him aware that his policy would be automatically
renewed (or that money would be taken out of his account) and what he needed to do to
prevent this. This is reinforced in the light of Mr Hs very clear instruction in April 2019 that
he didnt wish this to happen. Its my preliminary view that this placed AA on alert that it
needed to do more to provide information in such circumstances, even if he hadnt
telephoned AA in late 2019 to stop the renewal.
In any event, its my provisional conclusion that Mr H did contact AA following receipt of cash
in accordance with the cashback arrangement. On the balance of probabilities, I accept Mr
Hs account in this respect. In addition, theres activity on the AA system notes towards the
end of 2019 although these arent detailed. Ive seen no evidence of how AA record any
telephone calls, however I think its possible that the activity was linked to a telephone call
from Mr H.
AA make the point that Mr H didnt immediately complain when the premium of £191.44 was
taken out of his account in April 2020. They said that he didnt complain until November
2020, some 9 months later. They said it provided cover throughout that period and would
have honoured any claims. AA further stated that the policy booklet; confirms that
cancellations can only be processed within the first 14 days of the renewal. Any cancellation
after this period would not generate a refund.
Im satisfied on a preliminary basis that Mr H wouldnt necessarily have had reason to check
his statement if there was no doubt in his mind that he had instructed AA to stop automatic
renewal of his policy. Mr H stated that he only became aware of the automatic renewal whenhe received an email from AA related to covid pandemic updates.
Mr H said that as he was unaware of the renewal, and to support this point, he said that he
took out a different policy in 2020 which he said provided the same cover. He said it wouldnt
have made sense for him to have had two policies covering the same risks. He reiterated
that he didnt receive any renewal reminders or renewal policy documentation from AA in
2020 which would have prompted him to take action, or to get a chance to agree on an
increased premium. He said he also didnt receive any account-related or marketing email
from AA so was unaware that his policy was still active.
I accept on a provisional basis that Mr H and his wife had specifically taken out alternative
cover which was to come into force on the date on which Mr Hs policy with AA was due to
lapse. I also accept that Mr H had assumed that AA had accepted his instructions not to
renew his insurance cover in 2020. In the event, Mr H had dual insurance for the relevant
period.
In all the circumstances, I conclude on a provisional basis that AA has not acted in a fair and
reasonable manner in automatically renewing Mr Hs policy and taking the sum of £199.44
from his account. I also consider on a provisional basis that Mr H has been put to trouble
and inconvenience in having to pursue this matter with AA for many months in order to reach
a fair outcome.
In my provisional decision, I also asked both AA and Mr H if they had any further comments 
or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  AA didnt provide any further information or evidence following my provisional decision. Mr 
H was happy with the provisional decision and confirmed that he had nothing to add.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited and require it to do the following;
- Refund Mr H the £199.44 membership fee, adding 8% simple interest* from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
- Pay Mr H £100.00 compensation for the trouble and inconvenience caused by this
error.
*If AA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman