DRN-4425405
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her bank account and didnt release her 
funds. Shed like the funds returned, interest for the lack of access and compensation.
What happened
Mrs Bs daughter is representing Mrs B on this complaint. For ease Ill refer to any 
communications from Mrs Bs daughter as though they came from Mrs B. 
Mrs B had an account with Barclays. 
In February 2022 Barclays wrote to Mrs B to advise that because she has an address 
outside of the United Kingdom theyll be closing her account in September 2022. 
Barclays sent further letters to Mrs B advising her about the closure  in July 2022 Barclays 
sent a letter to Mrs B saying theyd received Mrs Bs request to close her account and for her 
funds to be transferred shed need to fill out the attached form. 
On 23 August 2022 Barclays sent Mrs B a further letter advising theyd received her request 
to transfer the funds  however theyd need to speak with her to do an identity and 
verification check. Barclays asked Mrs B to phone in and complete security.
On 29 November 2022 Mrs Bs daughter phoned in for an update  however the funds 
hadnt been returned by that date. Barclays advised the funds couldnt be transferred as they 
need the unique reference number from the closure letter, which they didnt have. Further 
letters were sent to Mrs B in March 2023 and May 2023 asking for the reference number. 
After this was provided on 28 June 2023 the funds were transferred to Mrs B in July 2023. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint. She thought Barclays acted fairly in 
closing Mrs Bs account, but should have returned her funds when the account was closed. 
Our investigator recommended 8% interest on the funds in Mrs Bs account from the date of 
closure to the date they were released. Plus £200 compensation. 
Mrs B agreed  but Barclays didnt. They agreed there had been some delays, especially 
from 29 November 2022 onwards. But didnt agree to 8% interest on the funds, and instead 
offered £300 compensation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached between the parties the case has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive briefly considered the account closure first. Although, Im satisfied this isnt the crux of 
Mrs Bs complaint. Instead I think thats whether Barclays acted fairly in failing to release 
Mrs Bs funds to her when the account was closed.
Barclays wrote to Mrs B in February 2022 to advise that because her address was listed as 
outside the UK they would be closing her account on 4 September 2022. A bank is entitled 
to decide whod theyd like to contract with, much as a customer is, as long as they follow the 
terms and conditions of the account and dont discriminate against them. Having reviewed 
the terms and conditions of the account, Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly in advising Mrs B 
they couldnt provide her a current account if she resided outside of the UK. Mrs B agrees 
she was residing outside the UK  it follows I cant say Barclays acted unfairly.  
Return of funds
Barclays have accepted they caused a delay in returning Mrs Bs funds to her  albeit they 
argue Mrs B could have supplied documents to them sooner. Ive looked at the evidence 
Barclays have provided our service and I think they could have done more to ensure Mrs B 
was provided with her funds prior to the closure.
Barclays have argued that they were advised by Mrs B that she wanted to close her account 
on 23 August 2022. However, from the evidence Ive seen Barclays sent Mrs B a letter on 
6 July 2022 informing her of what she needs to provide to transfer her funds out of the 
account. Within this letter I cant see any mention of Mrs B being required to phone Barclays 
to do this, however on Mrs B responding to the letter Barclays asked her to phone in and 
complete an identity and verification check. 
I understand Barclays argument that due to the large value of the balance they have a 
process which requires additional checks, including the customer phoning the bank to 
complete identity and verification checks. However, I cant see why Mrs B wasnt informed of 
this on 6 July 2022 when she was advised of the other information which needed to be 
provided. If she had been I think Mrs B would have provided the required details much 
sooner, and prior to when the account was closed. It follows, Mrs Bs funds wouldnt have 
been blocked from 4 September 2022 onwards until release in July 2023. Im satisfied 
Barclays actions led to Mrs Bs funds being unavailable to her during this time.
Putting things right
I think Barclays caused Mrs B to lose access to her funds between 4 September 2022 and 
July 2023. Im satisfied Mrs B was deprived of access to her funds and should be 
reimbursed 8% annual interest from the date of restriction to date of release. 
Our investigator recommended that Mrs B is paid £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to her. Mrs B explained how she experienced significant distress and anxiety in not 
getting her funds. Taking into account Mrs Bs age and vulnerability I agree that not being 
able to access her funds likely caused Mrs B significant harm. And £200 is fair compensation 
for the impact caused to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mrs B 8% interest on the funds from 4 September 2022 to the date the funds 
were released
Pay Mrs £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused to her
HM Revenue & Customs require Barclays Bank UK Bank PLC to withhold income tax from 
the abovementioned interest. Barclays should give Mrs B a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if she asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman