DRN-1742688
The complaint
Mrs H complains, through her son Mr A, that Society of Lloyds is responsible for 
mishandling her claim under a motor vehicle bodywork insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. Where the complaint is about a claim 
under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurer that was responsible 
for dealing with the claim.
Where the insurer is a syndicate at Lloyds, we treat the complaint as against the Society of 
Lloyds. 
Under the rules by which we are bound, we can only direct an insurer to pay compensation 
to a policyholder or other person named in the policy.
From 30 December 2016 Mrs H had a three- year insurance policy at a cost of about 
£500.00. The policy covered SMART bodywork repairs up to £1,000.00 per claim.
A syndicate at Lloyds was responsible for dealing with claims.  Where I refer to Lloyds or 
the insurer, I include claims-handlers and others for whose actions I hold the insurer 
responsible.
Mrs H made a claim for bodywork repairs. In June 2019, the insurers repairer said the 
damage was too extensive for a SMART repair.
Mrs H complained to the insurer. In September 2019 It sent a final response. It referred to 
payment of £25.00 compensation.
Unhappy with that, Mr A brought his mothers complaint to us in December 2019. He would 
like a repair of the vehicle or a refund of the insurance premium.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Lloyds followed the correct procedures when deciding the outcome of Mrs Hs claim. She 
thought the Lloyds decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable.
On behalf of Mrs H, her son disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. He says, in summary, that the insurer led him to 
believe it was going to do the repair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H paid the premium for the policy cover. If I found that Lloyds had wrongly declined a 
claim, I would direct it to pay the claim. I wouldnt direct it to refund the premium.
The policy terms included the following:
A SMART repair is one where the technician can typically complete the repair within 
two hours and will be to best endeavours. Where a SMART repair cannot be 
achieved, the vehicle will require a body shop repair which is not covered by this 
insurance policy
Mrs Hs claim was for a series of incidents as follows:
2 May 2019:  scratch across the front bumper while parked;
6 May 2019: back bumper scratched by another vehicle;
9 May 2019: while parked, damaged above rear wheel by a moving skip;
18 May: paintwork scratched while parked.
The insurer agreed to send a mobile repairer. I accept that all the messages anticipated that 
a repair would be done.
I accept that Mr A took time off work to meet the repairer. But the policy wasnt in his name. 
So I cant direct the insurer to compensate Mr A for wasting his time.
I dont find it unreasonable that the repairer assessed the damage to the vehicle.  
Ive seen photographs of damage to the vehicle. From those, I accept the repairers report 
that each of the areas of damage was beyond the scope of a SMART repair.
Therefore the claim was beyond the scope of the policy. And I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Lloyds to repair the vehicle or to refund the premium.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Society of Lloyds to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman