DRN-3031388
complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2003. Mr and Mrs T says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them PPI. Although it was a 
joint loan, the PPI was taken out just to cover Mr T.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ts circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement that Mr 
and Mrs T have signed. There was a separate section for PPI with a yes and no boxes 
to either request or decline the policy. There is an X in the yes box showing that Mr 
and Mrs T selected the PPI. Its a pre-printed cross but we know that branch sales 
involved having a discussion about the loan and insurance needs with the form being 
printed out afterwards depending on what had been discussed. BoSs usual sales 
process at that time was to present the PPI as optional and I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that something different happened in this case. Overall I am satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs T chose the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, Mrs T wasnt 
eligible for the policy as she was working less than 16 hours per week and therefore she 
was not included in the policy. Mr T was eligible for the cover and although he had some 
existing means work benefits, he still seems to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ts employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim  and indeed he did make a successful claim for unemployment 
in 2005. Although Mr T says he had a medical condition some time before the policy was 
taken out, I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended it. I say this because 
Mr T has told us that he pulled a muscle in his back in 1998 and had a few days off work 
and some treatment. But I havent seen anything to suggest that the condition was 
ongoing such that it was causing him significant problems in 2003.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs T as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs T would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs T would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ts particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman