DRN-1777035
 
The complaint
Mrs M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ms credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The credit card application which Mrs M completed and signed included equally 
prominent options to accept or decline PPI. Mrs M ticked the box indicating that she 
wished to take PPI. I think Capital One made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional. 
and I think she decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice  although I can 
understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years later.
 
Mrs M applied for the credit card and PPI by post. But she says she didnt 
understand what the insurance was. So she phoned Capital One and spoke to an 
advisor, who she says advised her to take it out. If an adviser did recommend the 
policy to Mrs M, they had a duty to check that it was suitable for her. But even if a 
recommendation was made, I dont think the policy was unsuitable, based on what 
Ive seen of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time.
 
Mrs Ms told us shed have been entitled to some pay from her employer at the time if 
shed been off sick. But if shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident or 
sickness, it would have helped with her monthly credit card repayments for up to 12 
months per successful claim. Thats significantly longer than Mrs Ms told us shed 
have been entitled to sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if shed made a successful unemployment claim on the policy. Whats more, the policy would 
have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs M received from her employer. So 
she could have used those to meet other day-to-day living costs. And she wouldnt 
have needed to use her limited savings to make her monthly credit card repayments.
 
I acknowledge that Mrs M has commented that as she wasnt employed full-time, she 
wouldnt have been able to claim the same benefits as a full-time employee, even 
though she was paying the same premiums. But the policy cost 79p per £100 
outstanding on the card  so how much Mrs M paid for the policy each month 
depended on the balance on her account. And the monthly benefit shed have 
received if shed made a successful claim was also a percentage of the outstanding 
balance. So neither the amount Mrs M paid for the policy, nor the amount shed have 
received if shed made a successful claim would have been affected directly by the 
fact that she wasnt employed full-time. And the policy covered part-time employees 
in the same was that it covered full-time employees. So I'm satisfied that Mrs Ms 
employment status didnt make the policy unsuitable for her.
 
I acknowledge that Mrs Ms told us her partner and family could have helped with her 
monthly mortgage payments if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant 
be sure that Mrs Ms partner and family would have been in a position to help if the 
need had arisen. So taking everything into account, I think the policy could have 
been useful to Mrs M.
 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Ive explained that I think she chose to take out the PPI - so 
I think its likely she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten 
that now, so long after the event. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time, Mrs M was eligible for the policy, and doesnt appear to have been affected 
by any of the main things it didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual 
working arrangements or existing medical conditions).
 
The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think Mrs M 
couldnt afford it. And since she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it 
at any time without further charge if her circumstances changed, or if she decided 
she no longer wanted the cover.
 
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mrs M would have made a 
different decision about taking the PPI out even if shed been given better information 
about the policy. 
 
Ive taken account of all Mrs Ms comments, including what shes said about Capital Ones 
adviser having told her that taking the insurance would help with the approval of her 
application. But I think it was clear from the application form that the PPI was optional, and I 
cant fairly decide that pressure was put on Mrs M to take out the PPI, based purely on her 
recollection of a conversation many years ago.
  
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman