DRN-2574145
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wrongly settled another 
drivers claim under his motor policy. Mr S believes the other drivers claim was fraudulent. 
What happened
On 24 April 2019 Mr S said that the driver in front of braked suddenly just before a junction 
causing Mr S to gently hit this other drivers car. The estimated speed according to Mr S was 
around 4 miles per hour. 
This other driver made a claim for damage to his car and personal injury to Mr S insurers 
Admiral. Mr S was vehemently of the view there could have been no damage to the other 
drivers car given his pictures of it from the scene of the incident and consequently he didnt 
believe the other driver could have been injured.
He made his views known to Admiral who initially said it shared those views too. However 
independent consultant engineers found the damage on Mr S car and that of the other 
drivers car was consistent. Admiral said this lessened its chances of successfully defending 
the other drivers claim so it settled it on the best terms it could.
Mr S remained significantly unhappy about this and brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong. Mr S disagreed most strongly so 
his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not holding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I must reassure Mr S that I thoroughly understand how strongly he feels about this 
matter. I also thoroughly understand his thoughts that this was a fraudulent claim and should 
not have been paid under any circumstances. I do appreciate how infuriating and wrong Mr 
S believes any settlement of the other drivers claim is consequently.
 
However, it is Admiral which holds the risk here, on legal costs (both its own and the other 
drivers), should the matter go to court and on the risk that this other driver might have got a 
higher award also, by taking it to court. Mr S holds none of that risk at all, because under his 
motor policy with Admiral, Admiral indemnifies him against any claim which might be taken 
against him by any other driver or pedestrian etc. Mr S risk is merely potentially having his 
No Claim Discount (NCD) reduced and having a fault claim on his insurance record. Both 
having the consequent ability, to then increase the amount of the premium he has to pay for 
a motor policy.
 
Thats why in all motor policies and therefore also in Admirals, theres whats called in legal 
terms the subrogation clause. When we buy motor policies, which we are obliged to by law 
if we want to drive a car, we then agree to this clause. In Mr S policy, its detailed as follows:
2. Claims procedure
We are entitled to:
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
take legal action over any claim in your name or the name of any person insured on 
the policy for our own benefit
admit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf
investigate your claim and exchange information with other parties involved with the 
accident or claim. However, we will treat your information carefully and only reveal it 
in cases where we believe it is necessary.
This allows Admiral to handle any claim as it thinks fit given its extensive experience as a 
motor insurer. Its not an unusual clause as its in every other motor policy. And its the basis 
of the agreement of the indemnity offered by a motor insurer to its policyholder. 
My role and that of this service isnt to decide whether this other drivers claim was 
fraudulent, or indeed to decide whose fault the accident was. Thats a matter for a court of 
law and this service isnt a court of law, its an informal dispute resolution service for disputes 
between consumers and financial products providers. This clause also doesnt permit a 
policyholder to block Admirals ability to settle claims as it thinks fit, as ostensible consent for 
it do so is given by the policyholder when they take out the insurance policy. Also, this 
service is unable to punish or fine insurers as we are not the regulators, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) is. So, my only role here is to see if Admiral applied this 
subrogation clause fairly and to ensure it protected Mr S interests. 
I consider it did. This is because it understood Mr S concerns initially as to the veracity of 
the other drivers claim, as detailed previously in the investigators view. It explained it had 
told the other drivers insurers and representatives that it had concerns over their claim and it 
clearly informed them it was disputing it. So, in effect it asked the other drivers 
representatives (insurers and solicitors) to prove this other drivers losses. It also explained 
to Mr S that from various databases, this other driver wasnt someone who was a serial 
claimer of personal injuries from accidents so that meant there was no fraud marker 
against the other driver.
And sadly, for Mr S, the other drivers losses were proved to the extent that if Admiral was to 
continue to refute them and the matter went to court, Admiral was of the view it was more 
likely it would lose. In those circumstances I consider Admirals settlement of this other 
drivers claim to be justified. 
Mr S believes this other driver braked on purpose to ensure Mr S car touched his. As the 
investigator explained, there were no independent witnesses to this accident and nothing like 
CCTV to show this consequently. Further the rules of the road werent in Mr S favour either, 
as the investigator explained, given the driver behind is under duty to always leave enough 
space behind the car in front. Plus, the other driver was coming to a junction so would have 
to had to have braked in any event. 
 
So, the next way to ascertain things is to look at the damage caused to both cars and see if 
there is any consistency in the damage between them. Admiral asked to see the other 
drivers engineers report, which it was given. It cant share that with Mr S due to Data 
Protection legislation. Admiral then properly instructed an independent consultant engineer to examine Mr S car to see if there was any consistency between the damage to his car and 
this other drivers car. Sadly, for Mr S this independent consultant engineer said there was a 
consistency between the damage on both vehicles thereby giving more credence to the 
other drivers claim.
Consequently, at this stage Admiral was not getting any coherent evidence to show the other 
drivers claim wasnt valid. Admiral like all other motor insurers must also adhere to varying 
pre-action protocols to sensibly settle cases without wasting the courts time in situations 
where there is no reasonable chance of success. Failure to do increases the amount of legal 
costs a successful party could claim from the unsuccessful party too. As I explained above 
only Admiral was at risk of these types of cost orders too, not Mr S. 
If Admiral had not instructed an independent consultant engineer to inspect Mr Ss car and 
do a consistency analysis as regards the other drivers vehicle damage, my decision might 
have been different. But it did. And since it showed a consistency, theres nothing to show 
me that Admiral made the wrong decision to settle the other drivers claim. It did in any event 
then explain to Mr S that it would carefully examine the medical evidence produced by the 
other driver and would challenge it if it was grossly inconsistent. But Admiral was of the view 
the evidence supporting the personal injury aspect wasnt inconsistent, so it settled that part 
of the other drivers claim too. I consider that Admiral properly took time to listen to Mr S 
concerns and properly investigated the circumstances of the other drivers claim. That 
means I dont think it did anything wrong as regards its right to settle any claim made against 
Mr S as its policyholder. It provided him with the indemnity it ought to have and given the 
evidence not showing enough issues with the other drivers claim, I consider it made a 
reasonable decision.
Again, to clarify, its not my role or the role of this service to decide if a claim was fraudulent 
or to decide who was at fault. My role is solely to assess if Admiral adhered to its terms of its 
policy in dealing with this matter. And I consider it did.
That does mean consequently and sadly that Mr S NCD was at risk of being reduced if Mr S 
hadnt protected it and it does mean Mr S has a fault claim on his insurance record. I also 
note Admiral explained this to Mr S at the time when he queried both the reduction of his 
NCD and his increase in premium. 
My final decision
I do understand Mr S will be very disappointed with my decision, but for these reasons its 
my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman