DRN-3325442
The complaint
Mr B complains that a van acquired with finance from Mi Vehicle Finance Limited (MVF) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr B was supplied with a van and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MVF.
Mr B was unhappy with the quality of the van. The engine management light illuminated in 
May 2021 and despite several attempts at repair, the issue wasnt fixed. Mr B was without 
use of the van for around 9 weeks in total whilst repairs were attempted.
Mr B complained to MVF. In response, it acknowledged that the repairs hadnt been 
successful. It agreed to allow Mr B to reject the van and said it would refund the deposit. It 
also said it would refund one monthly payment to compensate Mr B for his loss of use, and a 
further monthly payment to compensate him for distress and inconvenience.
Mr B wasnt happy with the resolution offered by MVF and brought his complaint to this 
service. He doesnt feel that hes been adequately compensated for his loss of income, as 
he says he wasnt able to work whilst he was without the use of the van.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that because Mr B had been without the use 
of the van for around 9 weeks in total, MVF should refund 2  months payments amounting 
to a further £321.58 in addition to the sums already refunded for loss of use.
In relation to the offer of one months payment for distress and inconvenience, the 
investigator thought this sum was fair. The investigator considered whether Mr B should 
receive further compensation for loss of wages but said there wasnt enough evidence to 
show that the specific insurance Mr B said he needed was raised and discussed with MVF.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he wasnt able to work whilst he was without the use of his van 
because he couldnt go into the depot in a van which wasnt registered and insured in his 
name. Mr B said he needed a specific type of insurance to work as a courier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MVF has accepted that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality. So I wont go into detail 
regarding the faults with the van. Instead, Ill focus on whether the resolution offered by MVF 
was fair and reasonable.
When a vehicle is rejected because it wasnt of satisfactory quality, Id generally expect the 
business to refund any deposit paid (plus interest) and to refund monthly payments less a 
deduction for usage. This is to put the consumer back in the position that would have been in 
had they not been supplied with a  car which wasnt of satisfactory quality.
In this case, MVF has already refunded Mr Bs deposit (but not interest on the deposit) and 
has refunded one monthly payment for loss of use (£257.26). Ive thought about the length of 
time that Mr B was without the use of his van. This was around 9 weeks in total. Because of 
this, I dont think MVF has acted fairly by refunding only one months payment. It should 
refund the equivalent of 9 weeks (or 2  months) payments, which means that a further 
refund of £321.58 should be paid to Mr B.
Mr B has explained that he was unable to work as a courier for the time he was without the 
use of the van. Hes estimated that he lost earnings of around £7,500. I can see that Mr B 
was offered a courtesy van on more than one occasion. Mr B says that he declined the 
courtesy van because he wouldnt have been able to get the necessary goods in transit 
insurance on it to carry out his job as a courier.
This service asked both parties for further information about any discussions which took 
place regarding Mr Bs need for a specific type of insurance. Very little information was 
provided. There isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that Mr B discussed his 
insurance needs with MVF. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair to ask MVF to 
compensate Mr B for loss of earnings, because Im not persuaded that MVF was made 
aware of the insurance issue and therefore didnt have the opportunity to try and address 
this issue at the time.
Putting things right
Ive already explained why I think MVF should increase the amount it pays to Mr B to 
compensate him for his loss of use of the van. In addition to the sum of £257.26 already 
offered and paid, MVF should pay a further £321.58. the total sum represents 2  months 
loss of use.
I also think MVF should pay 8% interest on the deposit which it has refunded.
Its clear that Mr B has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of being supplied 
with a van which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ive thought about the sum offered by MVF for 
distress and inconvenience (equivalent to one monthly payment of £257.26) and Im satisfied 
that this sum is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking MVF to increase this element of its 
offer
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. In addition to the sums already offered and 
paid to Mr B, Mi Vehicle Finance Limited must pay the further sum of £321.58 to reflect loss 
of use. It should also pay simple interest at *% on the deposit refund, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman