DRN-3878940
The complaint
Mr F complains, on behalf of K, that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as 
Cashplus Bank, wont reimburse transactions he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In May 2022, Mr F received a text, in his usual text chain of messages from 
Cashplus. This referenced a request for change in contact number and that he would 
be contacted about that. He subsequently received a call, purporting to be from 
Cashpluss fraud team. He was required to pass security, and the caller knew details 
about Mr F and Ks account, including recent transactions, which he was asked to 
confirm. He recognised some but didnt recognise others. It was at this point Mr F 
was asked if certain devices had been added to the account, which he also didnt 
recognise. 
The caller told him his account was at risk and the online banking would need to be 
reset, all devices removed and his trusted device added back on. Mr F followed the 
instructions and entered codes onto a weblink when promoted to do so. But, and 
unknown to Mr F, the caller had accessed Ks account and made transactions 
totalling £13,100. 
Mr F discovered the loss when the call ended and he called Cashplus immediately. It 
declined to reimburse the transactions as it said he had shared sensitive information 
with a third-party and its One Time Passcodes (OTPs) specifically instruct for them 
not to be shared. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in full. He wasnt persuaded Mr F made or 
otherwise consented to the transactions and he didnt find hed acted with gross 
negligence or intent. Cashplus asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman; 
it considers as a long-standing customer Mr K ought to have realised he was 
inputting information into a website that wasnt its, and it says there had been lots of 
information in the mainstream media about fraud and scams and being extra vigilant 
especially when receiving unexpected texts or calls from a bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr F (or K) isnt liable 
for payments he didnt authorise or consent to, unless he failed with gross negligence 
or intent to comply with the terms of the account and keep the personalised security 
details safe.
It appears Cashplus accepts Mr F has fallen victim to an impersonation scam, and 
didnt carry out, or otherwise authorise or consent to, the transactions being carried 
out. Under the PSRs the transactions are therefore considered unauthorised. 
I dont find Mr F failed with intent to keep the security details safe. The actions Mr F 
took were carried out in the belief he was securing the account.
I also dont find Mr F failed with gross negligence. Mr F believed he was speaking 
with someone from his bank. They knew details about him, including information 
about genuine transactions he had carried out. And the earlier message sent 
appeared in the same text message chain as other genuine messages from 
Cashplus. Whilst the text might not have been expected (and not all messages from 
banks are), the call was, as the text message told him to expect this. 
I accept Mr F passed on information he shouldnt have, including OTPs. But I dont 
think this means he seriously disregarded an obvious risk, and therefore failed with 
gross negligence. 
Mr F believed the actions he took were to safeguard the account and remove devices 
which had purportedly been added by a fraudster. In doing this, he was told his 
trusted device would also be removed and would need to be readded. He was 
provided with a weblink and was prompted to enter OTPs in order to do that. I accept 
K has been a customer for a number of years. I also accept the web address might 
not have been an exact match for Cashpluss address. But I dont think it was so 
different that Mr F ought to have been alert to an obvious risk, particularly as he 
would have been intent on following instructions he believed were being given by his 
trusted bank. And although the OTPs do say DO NOT SHARE with anyone! they 
also say This should only be entered on-screen when prompted. Mr F didnt share 
the OTPs per se, rather he entered them onto the website when he was promoted to 
do so. So he wasnt only following the prompts given by the fraudster but also the 
instructions in the OTP. This was a sophisticated multi-layered process which started 
with a text that laid the groundwork for Mr F to believe he was speaking with his 
bank. Overall, I can see how Mr F was tricked into believing the steps he took were 
to keep Ks account safe, and I think a lot of people would have been tricked into 
doing to the same, or something similar. 
I dont find Mr Fs actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would have 
done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude neither Mr F, nor K, is liable 
for the transactions and Cashplus needs to put that right  by refunding the loss from 
the unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate for the time without, 
and loss of use of, those funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus Bank, to:
Reimburse K £13,100 (less the £35 allowed for in the terms and conditions and 
PSRs, should Cashplus choose to rely those); and
Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of that loss to the date of settlement, 
less any lawfully deductible tax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman