DRN-2521181
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans agreed to three 
loans shed applied for as she said they were unaffordable for her.
What happened
In May 2017 Miss T took out a £2,000 loan with Everyday, to be repaid over 24 months with 
repayments of £223.30 a month. Miss T said the loan was to settle some defaults she had.
In February 2018, Miss T took out a further loan with Everyday for the purchase of a van. 
The loan was for £3082 payable over 30 months at £319.64 per month.
In December 2019, Miss T took out another loan  to consolidate her debts and to help cover 
the cost of Christmas expenses. The loan was for £3,601 payable over 20 months at 
£388.58.
Ms H said Everyday shouldnt have approved the loans as she couldnt afford them when all 
of her circumstances were taken into consideration. She said shed been in a desperate 
financial state when she asked for the loans as she also had payday loans outstanding. She 
complained to Everyday as she didnt think theyd done enough to establish her true 
situation.
Everyday said theyd carried out enough checks that showed all three were affordable for 
Miss T at the time she took them out. They calculated that for loan one she had disposable 
income of £996.53. For loan two, she had disposable income of £1515.76. And for loan three 
her disposable income was £587.22. 
Ms H wasnt happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Everyday had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
determine the affordability of each of the loans. So, she didnt think Everyday had acted 
irresponsibly when agreeing the loans Miss T applied for. And she didnt think they needed 
to do anything more.
Miss T didnt agree with the investigator
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the overarching 
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint are whether Everyday carried out proportionate checks. And whether the 
loans made were affordable and sustainable for Miss T.
Regulations in place at the time Everyday lent to Miss T required them to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of whether Miss T could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check. 
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Everyday need to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Miss T. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to think only about 
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of 
repayment on Miss T herself. 
Checks also must be proportionate considering the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend on  
several factors such as the specific circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, 
current situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
Consideration should also be given to the amount, type and cost of credit theyre applying 
for. This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different 
loan applications. 
So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Miss T had been thorough in the checks 
they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to 
her.
Loan One
Everyday said they had checked Miss Ts income, bank statements, credit file and carried 
out an affordability assessment of her outgoings and a job check. I can see Everyday 
calculated Miss Ts monthly salary as £4184.50  Miss T was paid weekly, and I can see 
Everyday added together her weekly income to calculate the amount over a calendar month.
Having looked at the figures they used I think theyre in line with the information shown on 
Miss Ts bank statements. Miss Ts rent was calculated at £368.68 per month (weekly 
£85.08). I can also see they listed Miss T outgoings - £1,455.69. And checked any outgoings 
they were unsure of. This can be seen by the notes against these transactions made on 
Miss Ts bank statements. Everyday also calculated an additional amount for any living 
expenses Miss T had.
Based on its assessment, Everyday said Miss Ts credit checks didnt show she was having 
any difficulty in repaying her existing financial commitments. Everyday said the income and 
expenditure information provided suggested Miss T had a monthly disposable income of 
over £900. Which would imply that the loan was easily affordable. 
Miss T applied for the loan as she said she wanted to settle some defaults she had. Having 
looked at her bank statements, prior to the loan being taken out, and her credit file. I havent 
seen any evidence that would lead me to think Miss T wouldnt be able to afford the loan. 
And Ive havent seen anything to show me that Miss T made Everyday aware of any 
additional loans that didnt show on her credit file or hadnt been declared as part of the 
income and expenditure calculations.
Im satisfied from the checks that Everyday carried out in this case that the loan was 
affordable for Miss T. For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied that the income
and expenditure figures obtained by Everyday were a reasonably accurate reflection of Miss 
Ts financial position at the time she applied for the loan. And, after taking into account the
monthly loan repayments for this new borrowing, Im also satisfied that Miss T would havesurplus income each month.
So, Im satisfied from everything Ive seen, that she would have been able to sustainably 
repay this loan.
Loan Two
I can see Everyday calculated Miss Ts monthly salary income as £4308.54, I can also see 
they listed Miss T outgoings, calculating these at £1183.11, her rent £433.33, and for any 
living expenses £1,000. Having looked at the figures they used I think theyre in line with the 
information shown on Miss Ts bank statements.  Ive looked at the bank statements Miss T 
provided, and I havent seen any additional outgoings or unusual spending which Everyday 
havent taken notice of. 
Based on its assessment, Everyday said Miss Ts credit checks didnt show she was having 
any difficulty in repaying her existing financial commitments. Everyday said the income and 
expenditure information provided suggested Miss T had a monthly disposable income of 
over £1500. Which would imply that the loan was easily affordable. I think, the amount of 
disposable income available should have raised a question as to why Miss T needed to 
borrow £3082 that attracted a high rate of interest if she had this amount of disposable 
income available to her. But I can see that Miss T said she needed the loan to purchase a 
van.
Miss Ts credit file hasnt shown her circumstances had changed in a way to raise any 
concerns. There are county court judgements, but Miss T has explained these were for 
parking fines and not because of her inability to repay her credit commitments. And 
Everyday has added these to their affordability assessment. So, Im satisfied from the 
checks that Everyday carried out in this case that the loan was affordable for Miss T. 
Loan Three
I can see Everyday calculated Miss Ts monthly salary income as £3,544.67. From Miss Ts 
bank statements this would seem to be lower than her actual salary, as her bank statements 
show a weekly income of between £1,076.35 and £1162.25. I can also see they listed Miss T 
outgoings calculating these at £1,764.15, her rent £400 and for any living expenses £771 
(based on the Office for National Statistics data). Having looked at the figures they used I 
think theyre in line with the information shown on Miss Ts bank statements.  Ive looked at 
the bank statements Miss T provided, and I havent seen any additional outgoings or 
unusual spending which Everyday havent taken notice of. 
Based on its assessment, Everyday said Miss Ts credit checks didnt show she was having 
any difficulty in repaying her existing financial commitments. Everyday said the income and 
expenditure information provided suggested Miss T had a monthly disposable income of 
around £600. The new loan repayment was for £388.58, which would imply that the loan was 
affordable.
Because of all of this, Im satisfied the checks Everyday did when approving Miss Ts loans 
were reasonable and proportionate. I know Miss T will be disappointed with my decision, but 
I dont think that the lending was irresponsible or unaffordable at the time. So, I wont be 
asking Everyday to refund any payments, charges or interest.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman