DRN-1562545
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt tell him it would record a credit search on his 
credit file when he applied for a bank account. 
What happened
On 20 April 2019 Mr H completed an application for a bank account over the phone. During 
the application process, HSBCs advisor said it would carry out a search with the credit 
reference agencies. Mr H says that HSBC didnt make it sufficiently clear that a record of its 
search would remain on his credit file. 
The application was approved but on 30 April 2019 Mr H complained to HSBC after he found 
its search recorded on his credit file. HSBC listened to Mr Hs application call and responded 
to his complaint. HSBC said it had told Mr H about its intention to complete a credit search 
before he agreed to proceed. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and he referred it to our 
service.
Mr Hs complaint was passed to an investigator but he thought HSBC had explained the 
nature of the checks it intended to complete during his application and had dealt with the 
complaint fairly. In response to the investigator Mr H said:
He was not applying for credit and his credit report says HSBCs search related to a 
credit application
HSBCs own guidance says a hard search is used to assess credit applications
Mr H thought the call handler should have specifically said whether HSBC would 
complete a hard or soft search
Mr H wasnt applying for credit with HSBC so didnt think all the information provided 
by the advisor was relevant 
Mr H says his chances of securing credit were unfairly impacted by the search 
registered by HSBC
 
As Mr H didnt accept the investigators view Ive been passed his complaint to issue the 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background to this case as I think all parties 
broadly agree on the key events and dates. Mr H says HSBC should have made it clearer 
that it was going to perform a credit search that would leave a mark on his credit file when he 
applied for a bank account. HSBC says it gave Mr H that information during the application 
call.I understand Mr H feels HSBC failed to provide a sufficiently clear warning that a hard 
credit search would be performed or that it would be recorded on his credit file. But I dont 
agree. Ive listened to Mr Hs application call and I heard HSBC say it would:
Search and share Mr Hs personal information with the credit reference agencies
Use information provided by Mr H over the phone and obtained from the credit 
reference agencies to assess his application and verify his identity
Record the search with the credit reference agencies
Use credit scoring to assess Mr Hs application and potentially refuse to proceed if he 
didnt meet the criteria
Send Mr H a leaflet explaining how it uses credit reference agencies if required
 
After HSBCs advisor went through its approach to credit searches they asked Mr H whether 
it was ok to proceed - Mr H confirmed it was. 
I know Mr H feels HSBC should have done more specifically said a hard search would be 
carried out but Im satisfied its advisor said it would contact the credit reference agencies to 
complete a search. Im also satisfied that HSBC told Mr H it would record the search it 
completed with the credit reference agencies. 
Mr H has pointed to HSBCs guidance on soft and hard credit searches. He says the 
information about hard searches says they are used for credit applications. But the 
information on soft searches provided by HSBC says its normally used for quotation 
purposes. It doesnt say bank account applications will be subject to a soft search. 
I appreciate that Mr H has told us he didnt think the all information provided by HSBC about 
how it uses a credit search applied to him as he was only applying for a bank account. But 
HSBC didnt mislead Mr H or tell him to disregard any of the information it provided during 
the application call. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but Im satisfied the nature of HSBCs credit 
search was clearly explained during his application. 
Mr H says his ability to secure other credit has been impacted by HSBCs search entry on 
his credit file. It's not clear to what extent a credit search from HSBC would impact Mr H's 
chances of securing other credit. Mr H says it has led to a drop in his credit score and raised 
concerns about obtaining other credit. But he hasn't told us about being specifically declined 
by another lender as a result of HSBC's actions. And, as I've explained above, I haven't 
found that HSBC acted unfairly or made a mistake by recording a credit search on Mr H's 
credit file. 
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr H as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But I haven't 
been persuaded to uphold his complaint. I'm satisfied that HSBC did explain it would contact 
the credit reference agencies and record a search when he made the application. As I'm 
satisfied HSBC has dealt with Mr H's complaint fairly, I'm not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman