DRN-3182777
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the charges that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) applied to 
his account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr D complained to Barclays about the charges applied to his account.  Barclays issued a 
final response letter on 25 April 2019. This letter outlined the time limits Mr D had to bring his 
complaint to this service. 
Mr D brought a further complaint to Barclays in late November 2019. Barclays didnt uphold 
Mr Ds complaint and issued another final response letter in December 2019 following which 
Mr D brought his complaint to this service
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and found that because Mr D hadnt brought his initial 
complaint to us within six months of Barclays final response letter, we could only look at the 
charges applied to his account from 25 April 2019. On review of Mr Ds account our 
adjudicator thought that Barclays should refund all interest and charges added to Mr Ds 
account from October 2019.
Following this Barclays offered to refund all charges and interest from October 2019 which 
totalled £270.75 and as Mr D would still have an overdrawn balance after the refund it has 
agreed to arrange a suitable repayment plan. 
Mr D didnt want to accept this offer, he wants all charges that were applied to his account 
between 2017 and 2020 reviewed. 
Why I cant look at charges applied before 25 April 2019
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that 
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Barclays issued its final response on 25 April 2019. Ive seen a copy of this and Im
satisfied it fits the meaning for a final response as defined in the DISP rules - including the
referral rights setting out the six month time limit. This means Mr D had until 25 October 
2019 to refer the matter to the service. But he didnt do so until early on in 2020, so I 
conclude the complaint was referred to us out of time under the rules that I have to apply.
I accept that since Barclays issued its original final response letter in 2019 there has been 
further correspondence between it and Mr D but unfortunately this doesnt extend the six 
month time limit outlined in the final response.
But Im allowed to investigate complaints referred outside of the time limit if Im satisfied the
delay was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr D has not told us about any exceptional 
circumstances that prevented him from bringing his complaint to this service, so because Mr 
D didnt refer his complaint to us in time, my decision is that this complaint was made too 
late and I am only able to look at charges applied after 25 April 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Barclays has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Ive seen that Mr D has in some of his correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to his account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services, what services it provides and to who is a 
commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclayss various charging structures or processes per 
se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr D if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Ds account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty. And where this is 
the case, Id expect Barclays to put Mr D in the position hed be in now if he hadnt paid any 
further interest and charges on that credit. 
This means Id normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable.
I can see from Mr Ds statements that from April 2019 Mr D hadnt maintained a credit 
balance for an extended period of time which suggests he mayve been suffering from 
financial difficulties. Overdrafts arent intended to be a long-term lending facility. So I agree 
with our adjudicator that I think that Barclays should have realised that Mr D wasnt using the 
overdraft as intended and stepped in sooner. 
But as Barclays have already made an offer in-line with our adjudicators view and what Id 
expect if Id found it had done something wrong - Im satisfied that what Barclays has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr D to 
decide whether he wishes to accept Barclayss offer.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr D is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman