DRN-3124144
The complaint
The Trust of Mr S complains that AIG Life Limited unfairly declined Mr Ss claim for terminal 
illness benefit on his life assurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a life assurance policy with AIG in 2011. The policy had a sum assured of 
£300,000 if he died or was diagnosed with a terminal illness within the policys 10 year term, 
which commenced on 23 September 2011. The policy was held in trust, and the trust has 
brought this complaint but for ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mr S.
In March 2021, Mr S made a claim to AIG for terminal illness benefit. He said he may have 
less than 12 months to live as his asthma and lung condition had deteriorated. AIG declined 
his claim. It understood Mr S was claiming for terminal illness benefit due to his atopic 
asthma with an atypical cystic lung disease component causing a progressive deterioration 
of lung function. It explained its policy defined terminal illness as:
An advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness where, in the opinion of an 
attending consultant and our Consultant Medical Officer, life expectancy is no more 
than 12 months.
AIG didnt think Mr Ss current condition met its definition of terminal illness because his 
treating consultant was unable to confirm a precise life expectancy, but it felt it was likely to 
be less that five years. Mr S complained about AIGs decision to decline his claim, but its 
position remained unchanged so Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Mr Ss policy 
has since expired and AIG told our service there is no evidence to support Mr S meeting the 
policys definition of terminal illness before the policy ended on 23 September 2021.
One of our investigators reviewed this complaint but didnt uphold it, saying it wasnt unfair 
for Mr Ss policy to require a life expectancy of no more than 12 months for a successful 
terminal illness claim. Mr S disagreed with our investigators opinion, saying he believed the 
policys definition of terminal illness to be an unfair contract term. So this has come to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr S has been seriously unwell for a number of years and has been 
diagnosed with a condition which will shorten his life. My role here is to determine whether or 
not I think AIG has handled Mr Ss claim for terminal illness benefit fairly and reasonably. 
The financial ombudsman service is not a court of law  we are an alternative to the courts. I 
have taken into account the law, codes and good practice in place at the time of Mr Ss claim 
to decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here  which may be different to 
what a court would decide applying legal rules. 
Having considered the evidence available, I think AIGs decision to decline Mr Ss claim for 
terminal illness cover was a reasonable one. In explaining my decision, I wont comment on 
every point Mr S has made. Instead, Ill comment on what I consider to be the crux of Mr Ss 
complaint and the key reasons why I dont think it should be upheld.
I think the crux of Mr Ss complaint is that AIG said he didnt meet his policys definition of 
suffering from a terminal illness, which requires a life expectancy of no more than 
12 months. From the evidence Ive been provided with, no doctor has said Mr Ss life 
expectancy was no more than 12 months. I note the most recent evidence available, which 
is the August 2021 report from Mr Ss consultant, says:
 We discussed his disease prognosis at length today as well. I have no doubt that 
unfortunately [Mr S] has a condition which will shorten his life. Due to the unclear 
nature of the underlying pathology, putting a timeline to this is extremely difficult. 
Mr S has since said his prognosis has worsened since it has been confirmed he is unable to 
undergo a lung transplant. I accept Mr Ss doctors have said it was difficult to give a timeline 
as to how long Mr S may live for, and I do sympathise with Mr S here. But it remains that 
none of the medical evidence suggested any of Mr Ss treating doctors thought his life 
expectancy was likely to be no more than 12 months before his policy expired. The only 
estimates given are that Mr S may live less than five years  but this isnt the same as 
saying his likely life expectancy is no more than 12 months. Taking into account the 
evidence available, I dont think it was unreasonable for AIG to conclude that Mr Ss illness 
did not meet the policys definition of a terminal illness and I dont think its unfair that AIG 
declined to pay Mr Ss claim for terminal illness benefit. 
Mr S told our service he thinks AIGs definition of terminal illness is an unfair contract term 
under section 5 of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contact Regulations (the UTCCR) 
Act 1999. It seems Mr S is suggesting this term is unfair because, under section 5 of the 
UTTCR, a contractual term which has not been individually negotiated shall be regarded as 
unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance in the 
parties' rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of the consumer.  
Mr S also says the general definition of a terminal illness has changed since he bought his 
policy. He also says the policy discriminates against people who dont have cancer, saying 
its easier for a cancer patient to get a more specific prognosis about their life expectancy. 
The policys definition of terminal illness isnt, in my view, comparable to any of the 
indicative and non-exhaustive list of terms which may be regarded as unfair under 
Schedule 2 of the UTTCR. I accept the policy wasnt individually negotiated but this doesnt 
mean its unfair or causes a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations arising 
under the contract to Mr Ss detriment. The policy Mr S purchased does not provide cover for 
every terminal illness a policyholder may be diagnosed with. I think the policy sets out clearly 
it provides cover during the policy term if Mr S died or was diagnosed with a terminal illness 
where the policy holders life expectancy is no more than 12 months  Mr S was provided 
with a copy of his policys terms and chose to take the policy out. Unfortunately, some 
people will be diagnosed with a terminal illness, including cancer, but they may have more 
than a year to live and this policy is simply not designed to provide cover in this case. 
Mr S says its unfair the terminal illness definition puts a time limit on life expectancy. He  
also refers to a High Court ruling in 2020 in Northern Ireland which declared such clauses 
to be a breach of human rights. He also referred to the findings of the All Party 
Parliamentary Group (the APPG)  for Terminal Illness, which undertook an inquiry into the 
legal definition of terminal illness and how that impacts terminally ill peoples ability to access 
benefits in 2019. The report, which Mr S has quoted, says the current legal definition of 
terminal illness, with its six-month rule, is unfit for purpose  it is outdated, arbitrary and not based on clinical reality. The report also noted recent changes to the definition of a terminal 
illness in Scotlands Social Security (Scotland) Act 2018. Whilst Ive noted Mr Ss arguments 
about the reports findings, the parts of the report he highlighted should be read in the 
context of the reports purpose, which was to examine the legal definition of terminal illness 
and how it is applied to welfare and social security benefit applicants. Im not dealing with 
Mr Ss entitlement to welfare or social security benefits in this case, so I think the quotes he 
has selected are of limited relevance here. Further, Mr Ss policy does not use the legal 
definition of a terminal illness as referred to in the APPGs report.
Instead, Mr Ss policy is in line with the General Medical Councils definition of patients 
approaching the end of life when they are likely to die within the next 12 months. And  
doctors routinely tell patients with a terminal illness how long they might live for based on 
their professional opinions. The policys requirement for a life expectancy of no more than 
12 months for it to pay a successful terminal illness claim is a common practice in insurance 
policies of this type. Ive seen nothing in the information Mr S has referred to that makes me 
think his policys  terminal illness definition is unlawful, unreasonable or unusual in life 
insurance policies. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Trust of Mr S  
to accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman