DRN-3889855
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Capital One (Europe) plc declined to refund her purchase of an online 
video course.
What happened
In February 2022 Mrs I bought a video online, which she believed would entitle her to a CPD 
certificate from an accredited professional body. She paid £249 for it with her Capital One 
credit card. When she later discovered that in fact it did not come with a certificate, she 
asked for her money back. The retailer insisted that it had never told her that the video she 
had bought came with a certificate, and that certificates are only for training on their site in 
person.
Mrs I asked Capital One to refund her. But Capital One did not think that there was evidence 
of any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer, for which Capital One could eb 
held liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, nor any ground for raising a 
claim under the chargeback scheme. It said that CPD certificates are only available for the 
full training courses, which were prices at £1,250, £1,500 and £2,000. The online video 
Mrs I had bought was not a full training course, and the certificate referred to in relation to 
that course was only meant to be confirmation that she had watched the video.
Mrs I brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it, for the 
same reasons as Capital One. So Mrs I asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the text messages exchanged between Mrs I and the course provider were very 
clear. The course provider definitely mentions more than once that Mrs I will receive a 
certificate of some kind, and so I can well understand why Mrs I thought she was going to 
get a CPD certificate.
But elsewhere it was stated that CPD certificates are only for full training, and while it is not 
spelled out as clearly as it could be exactly what full training means, on the balance of 
probabilities I think this means the more expensive courses, which last for one, two, or three 
days and which each cost more than a thousand pounds. It is significant that one of the 
course providers messages to Mrs I said if you take full training she would be eligible for a 
CPD certificate, and that this message was sent after Mrs I had agreed to pay £249 for an 
online video and was discussing means of payment. That suggests that she had not yet 
agreed to purchase full training.
So I dont think the evidence proves that the contract between Mrs I and the course provider 
included a term that Mrs I would get a CPD certificate as well as the video. That means that 
Capital One was not liable to her under section 75, and that it did not have to raise a 
chargeback for her (because a chargeback claim would not have succeeded).
I dont think the confusion is all Mrs Is fault. I think that the course provider could and should 
have been more clear with her. But if the parties to the contract intended or believed different 
things, that is not something for which section 75 provides a remedy; and neither does 
chargeback. It is not the same thing as a breach of contract, or a failure to provide the 
service which was contracted for.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman