DRN-4087823
The complaint
In summary, Mr C complains that MBNA Limited, provided him with a credit card that he 
wasnt able to afford. 
What happened
In 2021, Mr C applied for a credit card with MBNA. The application was approved and a 
credit limit of £1,700 was provided. 
MBNA explained to this service the checks that it carried out before providing Mr C with the 
credit card. It said that it used information gathered from his credit file and information he 
provided to assess affordability. In its response to Mr Cs complaint, it said it estimated the 
expected living costs using data from the Office of National Statistics Family Spending 
Survey. Its affordability assessment showed that he had disposable monthly income of 
£578. 
It also said that in his complaint to MBNA, Mr C had said his average net income was about 
£1,780 a month and that taking into account his income and expenses, there was no way he 
could afford the repayments on the credit card. In addition, it explained that the 
creditworthiness and affordability assessment it carried out showed no evidence of missed 
payments or signs of over indebtedness.
Mr Cs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They explained why they 
thought the lending provided to Mr C was affordable. Mr C didnt agree. He referred to the 
loan repayments he had been making on a loan taken out shortly before he applied for the 
credit card, as reasons why he shouldnt have been provided with the credit. 
The investigator explained that they had considered the information on the credit report Mr C 
had provided. And that didnt show the loan Mr C had provided evidence of. They didnt think 
it was unreasonable of MBNA to have provided him with the credit, taking into account his 
circumstances at that time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if MBNA treated Mr C 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit card.
1) Did MBNA complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay his credit card in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did MBNA make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did MBNA act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did MBNA complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be 
able to repay his credit card in a sustainable way? 
The rules that MBNA had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess, whether Mr C could afford to repay the credit card he was wanting to 
take out. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think what 
this meant in practice, was that the scope and extent of MBNAs checks needed to reflect 
the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the interest 
rate, and any indications of customer vulnerability.  
The checks MBNA needed to carry as part of its affordability assessment, had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this, is that the checks needed to consider whether the 
credit provided, and the monthly repayments, would cause Mr C any difficulties or have any 
adverse consequences for him. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Mr C had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to make the card repayments with a low income. It would also need to be more thorough 
the higher the amounts he had to repay, as it would be more difficult to make higher monthly 
repayments on a given income. 
With these principles in mind, Ive thought about whether MBNA completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be able to repay his credit card in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the credit card application were as follows:
Mr C was recorded by MBNA as having a net monthly income of approximately £1,700 
when the credit card was taken out. 
Mr C was offered a credit limit of £1,700. 
The credit report obtained by MBNA in respect of Mr C as part of its underwriting 
process, showed no evidence of missed payments, no defaults or county court 
judgements. 
The credit limit of £1,700 that MBNA approved wasnt in my opinion, an insignificant amount. 
MBNA has provided details of a credit reference check that it carried out. This doesnt show 
any evidence of missed payments or financial difficulties. In addition, it has explained the 
expenditure assessment that it carried out to determine whether Mr C could afford to make 
repayments for the credit limit provided. And I think the expenditure assumptions it used in 
this case werent unreasonable. Its arguable that it could have checked Mr Cs income. But 
Mr C has provided a bank statement that shows his average net income, in the 3 months 
before he made the application was approximately £1,800 a month. This was slightly higher 
than the figure MBNA used in its affordability assessment.Taking into account the circumstances of Mr Cs credit card application that I have 
summarised above, Im satisfied for the reasons Ive set out, that the checks MBNA did carry 
out were reasonable and proportionate in this particular case.
Did MBNA make a fair lending decision?  
The credit checks that Ive summarised above indicate to me that Mr C appears to have 
been managing his existing credit without any difficulties. And the expenditure exercise 
MBNA carried out indicated that in relation to Mr Cs income, he had surplus income each 
month that meant he would be able to meet the repayments in respect of the credit card limit 
that he was being provided with. 
Also, the credit card statements MBNA provided dont indicate to me that he had any 
difficulties managing the credit card account after it was issued, which might indicate he 
shouldnt have been provided with the credit. 
Mr C has referred to the loan he had taken out shortly before he applied for the credit card. 
But that isnt recorded on the credit report he provided. And he has said that the provider of 
that loan, has told him that it will rectify the fact that it isnt showing on his credit file. So, it 
seems unlikely that MBNA would have seen that on any credit search it did. And I think it 
could only consider the information that it was made available to it, when it carried out a 
credit search on Mr C.
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I think that in the particular circumstances of Mr Cs 
case, MBNA didnt do anything wrong in providing him with the credit limit that it did. I do 
understand that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. 
My final decision
My decision is not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman