DRN-3556197
The complaint
Mr N says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of credit he couldnt afford to 
repay. Mr N further says this facility put him into financial difficulties and he had to borrow 
money in order to repay it. 
What happened
Mr N approached Drafty for a running credit facility in July 2018. Mr N was given a
facility with a £1,570 credit limit. In February 2019 Mr Ns credit limit was increased to 
£1,770. Drafty has confirmed the facility was fully repaid by Mr N in January 2020.
Mr N was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed.  To be 
clear, Mr N was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys first final response letter (in April 2021) it explained the information it gathered 
from Mr N before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated monthly 
repayment of around £180, Mr N was likely to be able to afford his credit facility. 
Drafty also provided details of the times it asked Mr N to check his income and expenditure 
with it. And even when Mr Ns disposable income had decreased there was still a sufficient 
amount to be able to afford the facility. Drafty didnt think it was wrong to have approved the 
credit facility. 
It then seems Drafty issued a second final response letter in November 2021. In this second 
final response letter Drafty partly upheld Mr Ns complaint. It said that allowing Mr N to use 
the facility after 2 November 2019 was in the long run not sustainable for him. 
It agreed to pay compensation to Mr N on any drawdowns taken from 2 November 2019 and 
remove any negative information from Mr Ns credit file from this date. However, there were 
no new drawdowns after this date and so Drafty said the refund due to Mr N would be £0.00.
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ns complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Mr N was likely 
to be able to afford the payment amount on the hypothetical payment schedule outlined on 
Mr Ns credit agreement. This was calculated on the full amount of credit available being 
drawn down and then repaid. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have initially approved the 
facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure 
the facility was affordable at the outset, Drafty also had an obligation to monitor the facility. 
Having reviewed, the way Mr N borrowed and repaid the facility, like Drafty she thought by 2 
November 2019 the facility had become  unsustainable for him. Knowing this, in the 
adjudicators view Drafty shouldve stepped in and Drafty shouldve frozen the interest on the 
facility. 
The adjudicator recommended different redress to what Drafty offered. The adjudicator felt 
that any interest, fees and charges added to the account after 2 November 2019 should be 
refunded, not just interest on any potential new drawdowns. 
Mr N didnt disagree with the adjudicators assessment.
Drafty didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In response it sent a number of emails 
to the adjudicator as well as our operational contact team.  Overall, it made a number of 
points, in summary it has said:
It agreed with the point that the adjudicator was upholding the complaint from  2 
November 2019. 
However, it didnt agree with the proposed redress. 
It says that as the complaint was upheld from 2 November 2019 everything before 
that date (such as drawdowns) have been deemed affordable whereas from the 
uphold everything is unaffordable. 
Therefore, it is well within its rights to collect the principle as well as the interest on 
any drawdowns before 2 November 2019. Had there been any drawdowns after 2 
November 2019 the interest on those amounts wouldve been waived. 
It doesnt consider the redress instruction is appropriate given the circumstances and 
it considers its original proposal to put things right (as outlined in the second final 
response letter) to be fair and reasonable here. 
It has pointed out, that the change in how it wants to calculate redress on cases that 
involve irresponsible lending was changed following an internal review and it 
considers this change to be reasonable.
In short, Draftys response is best summed up by what  it says below;
So, to restate, the decision implies that any draws granted after 2nd Nov'19 were 
inappropriate, so we should refund the interest paid towards them. However, it also 
implicated that draws requested prior to 2nd Nov'19 WERE reasonable for us to have 
granted, so we aren't liable to refund any interest paid towards them despite that we 
collected it after 2nd Nov'19.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
For completeness, Ive thought about all aspects of the complaint including whether it was 
reasonable for the facility to have been granted in the first place, how the facility was 
monitored and then finally Ill address Draftys concerns around the adjudicators proposed 
redress. 
The relevant regulations in place at the time Mr N was initially given his running
account credit facility.
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that Drafty gave Mr N this facility
when it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevantregulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook
(CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. The affordability 
requirements set out in Section 5.2 of CONC were subsequently replaced by the new CONC 
5.2A in November 2018. But Ive referred to the rules that were in place at the time Drafty 
provided this facility to Mr N.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a
consumer credit this type. And it says a firm had to consider:
the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers financial situation as well as the ability of the 
customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the regulated credit 
agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement (like Mr Ns 
facility), to make payments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in
mind when considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2) says;
a firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances 
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the 
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates 
to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says 
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says
 The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
1. should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to 
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in 
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Mr Ns 
Drafty facility. As explained, Mr N was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr N would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Draft also needed to monitor Mr Ns repayment record for any sign that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I do think Draftys checks before
providing this facility to Mr N were proportionate taking all of the circumstances into account.
As explained, Mr N wasnt given a payday loan where he had to repay all of what he
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there
was an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a
reasonable period of time. CONC doesnt set out what a reasonable period (CONC 5.3.1(8)) 
of time is. And its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be 
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case.
Mr N was granted a facility with Drafty with a £1,3570 limit. In the credit agreement, a 
hypothetical situation is laid out to show the potential cost of the facility to Mr N. This 
hypothetical situation assumed that Mr N did the following:
1. drew down his maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided, 
2. he kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Mr N repaid what he owed in 12 monthly installments.
Had Mr N done that, shed have repaid Drafty a total of £2,156.22 meaning a total monthly 
repayment of around £179.68.  
So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Mr N could make monthly repayments of around £180 at an 
absolute minimum.
Drafty says it agreed to Mr Ns application after hed provided details of his monthly
income and expenditure and it looked at his credit score. It says the information it gathered
showed that Mr N would be able to comfortably make payments of around £180 a month.
In these circumstances it thought it was reasonable to lend.
The information provided does suggest that Mr N was asked to provide details of his 
declared income of £1,850 and declared expenditure of £375. This left Mr N with disposable 
income of just over £1,475 per month to service and repay the facility. 
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results. Based on this, it was aware that Mr N 
had one default recorded on his credit file, but this had been reported almost six years 
before the facility was granted. In my view that wouldnt have been a concern for Drafty and 
not enough to have prompted it to have carried out further checks before granting the facility. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty
asked Mr N, this was Mr Ns first facility and the other information  such as the information 
in Mr Ns credit report, I dont think it was unreasonable for Drafty to rely on the information 
Mr N provided.
I accept Mr Ns actual financial position may not have been reflected either in the
information provided, or the information Drafty obtained. But Drafty could only make itsdecision based on the information it had available at the time. 
At this stage of the lending relationship between the parties, I dont think proportionate 
checks wouldve extended into Drafty asking Mr N to evidence about what he was declaring, 
or it asking him for his bank statements. So overall I dont think that Drafty treated Mr N 
unfairly or unreasonably when it initially provided his with an open-ended credit facility in 
July 2018.
After the facility was approved Mr N initially appears to have managed the repayments well, 
making payments larger than the minimum expected and not drawing down any new funds 
after August 2018. 
In February 2019 there was an increase to the credit limit  by about £200 but given the way 
the facility had been used I dont think Drafty needed to do any further checks at this point in 
time and there was no indication the facility was unsustainable for Mr N. 
In May 2019 Mr N appears to have made multiple payments repaying the facility before 
drawing down more in credit. This may have been concerning to Drafty  given the large 
repayment and drawdowns. But as Mr N had only had the facility for around a year at this 
point, I dont think there was anything in the way the facility was being used that wouldve 
given Drafty concern to either carry out further checks or to have stopped Mr N using the 
facility. 
However, after May 2019 Mr Ns behaviour changed. He would tend to pay Drafty around 
the minimum repayment amount each month and then return to borrow the available credit.  
This is something that Drafty needed to be aware of and consider whether allowing Mr N to 
continue to use the facility was sustainable. But, I dont yet think it had reached the point 
where Drafty ought to have realised the facility wasnt sustainable for Mr N. 
Why I think Drafty shouldnt have provided further funds after 2 November 2019
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility, that wasnt the 
end of its obligations to Mr N. As Ive said above When the facility was approved, Drafty was 
regulated by the FCA and it issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should 
be expected from lenders when granting these types of loans.
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
But, its also worth saying at this point that CONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some 
indicators, which when present in a consumers circumstances, could be suggestive of 
potential financial difficulties. 
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Mr Ns repayment record 
and how he used the facility and step in if and when he showed signs of possible repayment 
difficulties.
Our adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve stepped in and taken action in by 2 November 
2019. By this point, our adjudicator thought that Mr Ns borrowing history showed he was 
potentially reliant on the facility and so it had become unsustainable for him. Its worth saying 
here that this the same point that Drafty thought the complaint should be upheld. This is also the same point, that Drafty concluded in the second final response letter that the 
facility may have been sustainable in the long term. 
So there doesnt appear to be any dispute as to when the facility likely became 
unsustainable for Mr N. Buy for the avoidance of doubt, I agree with both the adjudicator and 
Drafty that at this point it was likely the facility was no longer sustainable for Mr N.
Looking at the way Mr N had used the facility he would frequently make around the minimum 
repayment and then return for further funds taking his facility balance back up towards the 
credit limit. The fact that he had, by this point had the facility for around 18 months and still 
owed almost his entire balance shows to me that he wasnt making any significant headway 
in repaying the facility within a reasonable period of time. 
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr N while explaining why all the interest charged after the 2 November 2019 needs to be 
refunded. 
Compensation for Mr N
In summary, the dispute here is about how Drafty needs to put things right and what, if any 
compensation may be due to Mr N. Drafty says following a review, it feels it should only have 
to refund any interest, fees and charges connected with any new drawdowns from 
2 November 2019. In this case, as no new drawdowns were taken after the uphold point 
there is no refund due to Mr N. 
Whereas the adjudicator thought the fairest outcome was for all interest, fees and charges to 
have been stopped on 2 November 2019.
 
It is worth saying, that in the second final response letter in 2021, Drafty did say the 
following:
However, we can see there is a possibility that allowing the continued use of the line 
beyond November 02, 2019 may not have been sustainable in the long term.
To me, this is quite clear, it has made the finding that Mr N continuing to use the line of credit 
after 2 November 2011 may not have bene sustainable in the long term. Drafty has, made 
the finding that the whole of the facility was no longer  not just the new drawdowns. 
Therefore, given the conclusions that Drafty has made in the final response letter, that the 
whole facility was unsustainable, it therefore follows that it isnt just the redress due on any 
new drawdowns that Mr N may have made, but in fact the whole facility including what was 
already owed  so also including a refund on any balance that existed on the facility before 
this date.
 
Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has upheld the complaint are clear, 
Ive outlined below what Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for Mr N. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Refund all interest, fees and charges that Mr N paid from 2 November 2019;
Then refund any interest fees and charges from the above date and then add 8% 
simple interest a year from the date of the payment to the date of settlement*;remove any negative information about the facility from Mr Ns credit file from 2 
November 2019. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr N as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman