DRN-3978125
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) allowed a pending
transaction to affect their account balance, causing them inconvenience and distress.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H hold a current account with Nationwide. They are both parties to this complaint
but, for ease of reading throughout this document, Ill refer to all submissions as having been
made by Mr H only.
In May 2022, Mr H made a purchase using his Nationwide debit card. The merchant (which
Ill call K) took payment as two separate, equal transactions. These were debited from Mr
Hs account. He says that, shortly afterwards, he and his wife discovered that both their debit
cards had been blocked. He says they were unable to withdraw cash, a card payment was
declined and a Direct Debit failed. Mr H says this was because a pending transaction on the
account caused it to go overdrawn. He says that, in addition to the two payments to K, a
third transaction of the same amount was showing on his account, marked as pending.
Mr H called Nationwide, which said this happens sometimes, particularly with the type of
purchase Mr H had made. Nationwide said the pending transaction would be removed within
two working days. But Mr H wasnt able to use his card in the meantime, as he says it
remained blocked. He wasnt happy about this and complained to Nationwide.
In its final response to the complaint, Nationwide said that, when the two payments to K 
were debited, a third amount remained pending. It said this amount had a zero authorisation 
code, meaning it wouldnt be debited. Nationwide said this happened because of the way K
processed the payment and that its system doesnt recognise the way some companies
debit funds. Nationwide said that, when this happens, the amount will stay pending for seven
days unless the customer contacts it before that, in which case it will contact the card
scheme and the transaction will be removed within two working days.
Nationwide apologised that the amount had remained pending after the other transactions
had debited and offered Mr H £75. But Mr H declined this offer. He queried why the
additional transaction reached his account in the first place and why it affected his balance if
it wasnt authorised and wouldnt be debited. He asked this service to look at the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2023 indicating my intention to uphold the 
complaint. Mr H agreed with my provisional decision and provided further comments on the 
background for me to consider.
Nationwide agreed to my proposed outcome, although it re-iterated that it was K which had 
forced through the unauthorised transactions. Nationwide also said that it needs 
authorisation from the merchant to cancel any pending payments and that it isnt obliged to 
make the pending funds available to customers in the meantime.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken the parties latest comments into account and thought about everything again. But 
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So, 
Im going to uphold the complaint in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. My 
reasons are set out below.
I think there are two main elements which caused the issue here, namely: (i) the way K
requested payments through the card scheme, and (ii) the way Nationwide dealt with Ks
requests and ultimately this complaint. The first element isnt something I can make a
decision about as Im not looking at the actions of K or the card scheme. Im only looking at
the actions of Nationwide. I dont think Nationwide acted fairly here - Ill explain why.
Mr H bought two tickets from K at a total cost of around £5,000. K took payment for each
ticket separately, meaning two transactions of around £2,500 debited Mr Hs account. But a
third transaction of the same amount (around £2,500) appeared on Mr Hs account as a
pending transaction. There were enough funds in Mr Hs account to pay for the two tickets.
But there werent enough funds to buy three tickets. From Mr Hs point of view, this shouldnt
have mattered as he was only buying two tickets. But the pending transaction amount was
removed from his available balance, effectively causing the account to become overdrawn
without an overdraft facility in place.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account, Nationwide can refuse to make a
payment or allow a cash withdrawal if he doesnt have enough money available to use. Here,
the pending transaction meant there werent enough funds available in Mr Hs account to
cover the other payments he tried to make, such as the cash withdrawal. Thats why they
were declined. But I need to consider whether it was reasonable for the pending transaction
to affect Mr Hs balance in this way.
In its response to the complaint, Nationwide said that, when K debited two amounts of
around £2,500, it caused another amount of around £2,500 to remain pending in your
account with a 0 authorisation code meaning this wouldnt be debited. I dont think most
customers would be familiar with the term 0 authorisation code or zero authorisation
code. But I think its reasonable to interpret Nationwides letter as meaning that the pending
transaction wasnt authorised and the funds wouldnt be taken from the account. Mr H has
asked why the transaction was posted to his account and why it was allowed to affect his
available balance if it wasnt authorised. I think those are reasonable questions in light of
Nationwides letter.
However, my understanding from Nationwides more recent communications with this
service is that the pending transaction was actually an authorised transaction and it was the
payments which debited Mr Hs account which were forced through with zero authorisation.
Nationwide says that Mr Hs payment to K was authorised and waiting to be debited from his
account. But it says that K disregarded the authorised transaction and forced through the
two other transactions with a zero authorisation code. It says that the card scheme allows
merchants to force through payments in this way. It says that this process is controlled by
the card scheme and isnt something which Nationwide has any control over.
Mr H may wish to raise queries with K and/or the card scheme to establish why K raised the
additional transactions and forced them through without an authorisation code, rather than
completing the authorised transaction. My understanding is that Nationwide wouldnt have
been able to stop these zero authorisation transactions, so I dont think it did anything wrongby allowing the payments to leave Mr Hs account. But I need to consider whether
Nationwide acted fairly in relation to the pending transaction.
As Ive said, I understand from Nationwides explanations and its recent, further clarification
that the pending transaction was authorised. This is contrary to what Nationwide said in its
response to the complaint. I dont think its final response letter was clear about what had
happened and Ill come on to that later. But, from the information available, I find that the
pending transaction was authorised. On this basis, I think it was reasonable that the funds
were removed from Mr Hs available balance, in anticipation of being collected by K.
Nationwide says that, when K forced through the other payments without an authorisation
code, it should have cancelled the pending, authorised transaction. This didnt happen but I
dont find that to be Nationwides fault.
Nationwide says that, when a merchant forces through a transaction with zero authorisation,
Nationwide doesnt automatically become aware of this. It says it only becomes aware when
the customer tells it, as was the case here. As the payments had already been taken from
Mr Hs account, the authorised transaction which was pending on the account was no longer
necessary. But I dont think Nationwide could have known that until Mr H called and queried
it. So I think it was reasonable that the transaction remained pending up to that point.
Nationwide says that, under the card scheme rules, its obliged to honour authorised
transactions for up to seven days. It reserves the money during this time but, if the merchant
doesnt take the money within seven days, it drops out of the pending payments and goes
back into the available account balance. However, Nationwide says it can remove a pending
payment earlier in certain circumstances. Here, Mr H contacted Nationwide within the seven-
day period and Nationwide arranged to release the funds. But it said this would take two
days. Im satisfied that Nationwide was following its usual procedure by doing this. But I dont
think it led to a fair outcome in the particular circumstances here.
The amount of the pending transaction was significant here and meant that no funds were
available to Mr H in his account. Through no fault of his own, this had already led to other
transactions being declined, causing Mr H inconvenience and distress. And his funds
remained unavailable to him during the two-day processing time, with Mr H still unable to
make payments from his account, including with his debit card. He had to move money
around from other accounts instead and put himself out in order to cover payments over that
period. I dont think that was reasonable.
The issue of the zero authorisation transactions by K was known to Nationwide. And Mr H
says that, when something similar happened once before, Nationwide had released the
funds immediately. I think, in the circumstances here, Nationwide ought to have removed the
pending transaction as soon as it became aware of the issue. Or, if it couldnt do that
because of obligations to the card scheme, I think there were other things it could have done
to help Mr H such as making funds available to him while the process with the card scheme
was being completed. 
Nationwide says it couldnt cancel the pending payment without approval from K and that it 
wasnt obliged to make the pending funds available to Mr H until that approval was given. I 
understand that Nationwide has obligations to K and Im not suggesting that it disregards 
those. I also understand that its not part of Nationwides process to make pending funds 
available to customers until K has agreed their release. Im not going to be more specific 
about what I think Nationwide should have done here as its not the role of this service to tell 
businesses how to operate customers accounts. But I think, in the particular circumstances 
of this case, there were things Nationwide could have done which would have brought about 
a fair solution Mr H at the time without breaching any obligations it had to K.Nationwide is aware of the issue with zero authorisation transactions and I understand it is
working with third-party organisations to find a solution. Mr H says this has been the case for 
quite some time as Nationwide told him this in relation to a previous issue. I understand Mr 
Hs frustration that this still hasnt been resolved. But I cant look at the arrangements 
Nationwide has in place with third-parties or tell it to change those as part of this complaint.
Nationwide says the problem stems from the way K processes transactions, but Nationwide 
recognises that this doesnt result in a good experience for its customers. It says it 
recognises the inconvenience this causes and thats why it has offered some compensation. 
I think thats a reasonable stance. But I think each case needs to be looked at individually 
and, here, I dont think £75 is enough to reflect the impact on Mr H.
In addition, I think Nationwide made mistakes in the way it dealt with the complaint. It didnt
provide a clear explanation of why the transaction remained pending on Mr Hs account. The
information in the final response letter is contrary to the later explanations given by
Nationwide and now appears to be incorrect. Mr H ought to have been able to rely on the
explanation given in the final response letter. But, instead of explaining what happened, it
caused further confusion and distress, leading Mr H reasonably to believe that Nationwide
had allowed an unauthorised transaction to remain pending on his account and deprived him
of his funds for several days to honour this unauthorised transaction. I dont find this to be
the case, as Ive explained above. But I think the response to the complaint exacerbated the
problem here and prolonged the distress for Mr H.
Mr H is unhappy with Nationwides complaints procedure and provided comments about this 
in his response to the provisional decision. I can understand his point of view. But the nature 
of the issues he has raised is outside the scope of what this service can look at, so Im not 
going to make any findings about that here. 
In conclusion, Im going to uphold this complaint. As I have said, its not the role of this 
service to tell businesses to change their procedures or arrangements with third parties. And 
I dont think Nationwide could stop a merchant forcing through a transaction with zero 
authorisation. The pending transaction has been removed from Mr Hs account and his 
balance restored. So, I think the most appropriate form of redress here would be for 
Nationwide to pay Mr H some compensation. As Ive said above, I dont think £75 is enough.
I think £200 would be more appropriate here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should pay £200 
to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman