DRN-3842696
The complaint
Mr N complains about the advice Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HL) 
gave in connection with his objective to transfer the benefits away from his defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme. Mr N said that HL should have known from the outset 
that it wouldnt recommend a transfer. So, in Mr Ns view, HL charged him a fee 
unnecessarily. He also said its charges were excessive for the work carried out. 
What happened
In 2022 Mr N asked for and received information from the administrators of his former 
employers DB scheme concerning his entitlements from the scheme. The administrators 
told Mr N that in order to transfer the sums involved to another pension arrangement, he 
would have to take regulated advice.
In April 2022 Mr N approached HL with a view to taking advice about transferring funds out 
of his DB schemer. One of its advisers spoke with him. The adviser told Mr N that before it 
gave any advice, he would have to pay its fee for doing so, even if it recommended that he 
should not transfer. HL explained the advice process and specifically that its starting point 
was that a transfer out of a DB scheme was not suitable for the majority of people. It 
confirmed with Mr N that he could afford to pay for the advice. It said it couldnt give him any 
indication of what the advice would be until the process was completed. It then emailed him 
to ask for information that it required him to complete. That included an adviser service 
charge agreement setting out what its fees would be if he went ahead with the advice. Mr N 
signed the service charge agreement in May 2022 to say he agreed to HLs fees.
HL then gathered information from Mr N about his DB scheme entitlement and obtained a 
transfer value analysis report. It completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ns 
circumstances and objectives. Amongst other things HL recorded that Mr N was 63 years 
old. He had a portfolio of buy-to-let properties. He had income from other sources too 
including from a limited company he ran, a stocks and shares ISA, a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) and another pension. He was considering transferring the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of almost £187,000 from his DB scheme to another arrangement. He 
wanted to use the tax free cash (TFC) from the transferred sum to pay deposits on two 
further buy to let properties  with interest only mortgages to cover the balance  and 
reinvesting the remaining funds in equities.
In June 2022, HL sent Mr N its suitability report setting out its advice. Its recommendation 
was that Mr N should not transfer out of the DB scheme. Amongst other things it said:
The CETV on offer was poor value.
Reinvesting the DB funds was unlikely to match the benefits from the scheme.
Investing in property carried risks Mr N didnt need to take with his DB funds and he 
could achieve his objectives by using income from other sources.
Mr N wasnt happy with HLs advice and complained. He felt that the adviser was refusing to 
recommend a transfer to cover his own back; that the advice process was fraudulent as HL 
could have told him from the outset that it would not recommend a transfer; and that the fee 
for the work was excessive. 
HL replied. It didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. Amongst other things it said it thought its 
advice was suitable for him and the charges reflected the work it had done.
Mr N brought his complaint to us. Amongst other things he said HL should reduce or remove 
its charges. One of our investigators looked into it. She thought HL had dealt with Mr N fairly. 
Mr N disagreed. He said he was aware from the outset that his DB scheme benefits were far 
superior to current annuity rates. He said he specifically made it clear that he was paying for 
HL to review his DB fund against reinvestment in a property portfolio. He said HL had since 
said it didnt compare pensions against property and if it had made that clear from the 
beginning he wouldn't have gone ahead with the process. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaints been referred to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of HLs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case. Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons the investigator gave. So, for brevity, I will focus my 
remarks below on Mr Ns comments following our investigators assessment of the 
complaint.
Should HL have told Mr N at the outset what its recommendation was likely to be?
Mr Ns said he specifically made it clear to HL that he was paying it to review his DB scheme 
against his proposed reinvestment in property. He's said thats something HL doesn't do, so 
it should have told him that at the outset. I've listened to the call, in April 2022, when HLs adviser spoke with Mr N before it gave him 
advice. HL set out what a consideration of a DB scheme transfer request would entail. That 
included saying its starting point would be  in line with the regulators guidance  for most 
people a transfer would not be suitable. At no point during the call did Mr N tell the adviser 
that he intended to reinvest the funds in buy-to-let properties. 
The only point at which property was mentioned was when HL said that it would consider 
rental income as part of someones overall finances. Although it said it didnt consider rental 
income to be secure but it factored it in. However, it didnt ask Mr N for any details of 
whether he had rental income at that stage nor did they discuss what Mr Ns intended 
destination of his DB scheme funds was.
HL also told him that its process would involve comparison of the DB scheme against 
reinvesting it in a money purchase (also known as defined contribution) pension scheme, 
including a comparison with annuity rates. 
HL made it clear to Mr N that, if he wanted to go ahead with the advice it was an all or 
nothing process, the actual term the adviser used was youre in or youre out. It told Mr N 
what it would cost him for the advice and that once he agreed to go ahead with that process 
he was committed to paying that fee, regardless of the outcome. And I think it was very clear 
on that point. 
HL also told Mr N that it couldn't give him any advice at that stage nor could it give him any 
indication of what the advice was likely to be. And I haven't heard anything within that call 
which indicated that HL should have told Mr N the process wasn't suitable for someone in 
his position, because  at that time  it hadn't done an analysis of his position. 
Mr Ns also suggested he told HL at the outset that he wanted it to compare his proposed 
property investment against his DB funds. But that didn't happen during the call that I 
listened to. In fact, as I've said above, HL didnt discuss with Mr N his plans at all. However, 
even if it had, HL had already told Mr N that it wouldnt be in a position to give him any 
advice until it had gone through the full evidence gathering and advice process, and it would 
only begin that process after Mr N had agreed to pay its fees. At that point in time Mr N 
hadn't agreed to pay its fees, so it wouldn't have been in a position to give him any advice.
It follows that I don't think HL did anything untoward at the outset. Neither do I think it should 
have told him what the outcome was likely to be. Its quite clear about its advice process; 
that it wouldnt give him advice until it had done all the necessary evidence gathering and 
analysis; and that it wouldnt begin that process until after Mr N had agreed to pay its fees. 
So I think it dealt with Mr N fairly and reasonably.
Was the advice suitable for Mr N?
Mr N said he was aware that his DB funds would be superior to an annuity and what he 
wanted was a comparison against the income from reinvesting his funds in property. Its fair 
to say that HLs transfer value analysis and suitability report make a number of comparisons 
between the value of his DB fund and what he could achieve by investing in an alternative 
pension arrangement. And that included if he was looking for an annuity on the open market.
As I've said above, in its initial call before actually giving Mr N advice HL told him that its 
review process would involve comparing his DB scheme benefits against what he might 
receive from a defined contribution pension plan and what was available on the annuities 
market. And, while Mr N clearly had no intention of transferring his DB funds in order to buy 
an annuity, the reason that such comparisons are used when considering pension transfers is because they give a clear understanding of the benefits a consumer might be giving up by 
choosing to transfer out of a DB scheme. And its something that the regulator requires firms 
like HL to do. 
in this case, HL's transfer analysis showed that the CETV on offer wasnt good value 
compared to the available benefits from the DB scheme, which included a full yearly pension 
of almost £8,700 a year. The DB scheme was in deficit - although the trustees had a plan to 
address that, and as a result the CETV was reduced by around £25,600. But, to replace the 
scheme benefits with something of equivalent value on the open market would cost Mr N 
around £367,000. That would be an extra £180,000, which was almost twice as much. So 
even though Mr N didnt intend to do that, I think it paints a clear picture of just how valuable 
his DB funds were and how the CETV represented poor value. 
Further, it's not the case that HL didnt consider the implications of Mr Ns plans to reinvest 
his DB funds into buy-to-let property. Instead its clear that HL didn't think it was in his best 
interests to do this. It said why it felt Mr Ns strategy carried significant risks. And it explained 
what those risks were and why. Amongst other things it pointed out that rental income wasnt 
guaranteed, the rental market could drop in value, and there could be void periods were the 
properties aren't let. 
HL also noted that Mr N could afford to buy the two properties by putting down deposits 
using the TFC from his DB scheme and topping that up with income from some of his other 
sources, including his stocks and shares ISA and his self-invested personal pension (SIPP), 
which together were worth over £142,000. In fact HL said Mr N might be better leaving his 
DB funds untouched until his normal retirement age of 65 and using funds from other 
sources to further invest in property. By doing so he could use the full value of the DB 
pension  without taking TFC as that would then be guaranteed and would escalate with 
indexation, whereas the sums held elsewhere were dependent on investment growth and 
subject to the volatilities of the market.
I think its worth repeating what both HL and our investigator have previously pointed out to 
Mr N. That is the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in COBS 19.1.6 
that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, HL 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Ns 
best interests. In other words HLs role wasnt to just transact what Mr N might have thought 
he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr N needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests. And it's plain from HLs transfer analysis and its suitability 
report that it didnt think it was in Mr Ns best interests to transfer out of his DB scheme. So 
that was its recommendation. And looking at the risks that Mr N would be taking by 
transferring, when he had no requirement to take those risks with guaranteed funds, I agree 
with HLs analysis that it wasnt in his best interests to transfer. It follows that I think HLs 
advice was suitable for Mr N.
Charges 
As I've indicated above, HL made its charges clear to Mr N at the outset and before it had 
given him any advice. It also made it clear that it couldnt say what the outcome of its advice 
would be until it had gone through the full process. Mr N was under no obligation to proceed 
if he didnt want to. But he chose to do so. It follows that, while he was unhappy with the 
outcome, for the reasons already given, I think HLs process was fair and as such I think it 
applied the charges Mr H agreed to pay reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman