DRN-4318548
The complaint
Miss G complains that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly avoided her motor insurance policy after she 
made a claim.
QIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As QIC has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to QIC includes the actions of the agents.
Miss G is represented in this complaint by her father, Mr G. For ease, Ill refer to anything 
said by Mr G as being said by Miss G.
What happened
In late 2022, Miss G made a claim under her motor insurance policy with QIC after she was 
involved in an accident with another vehicle. 
A few weeks later, QIC told Miss G it was avoiding her policy. It said she hadnt provided 
accurate information when she took it out and it wouldnt have offered her the policy if shed 
provided the correct information.
It said her claim would not be met and it retained the right to recover any outlay it was 
obliged to make in relation to a claim from a third party.
Miss G raised a complaint, but QIC maintained its position. So, Miss G asked our service to 
consider the matter.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Gs complaint should be upheld. She thought QIC had 
acted fairly, in line with relevant legislation.
Miss G disagreed with our investigators outcome. She felt she had taken reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation. She thought the brokers website was ambiguous when 
selecting the level of cover. She didnt agree that QIC wouldnt have offered her cover if 
shed selected business use when she applied for the policy. Her representative also 
commented that QIC had retained Miss Gs premium despite what it says in the legislation 
about returning it. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Reasonable care
QIC says Miss G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
took out the policy in January 2022. It says the policy was taken out on the basis that her 
class of use was social, domestic and pleasure, but it transpired that this information was 
inaccurate and that her vehicle was in fact used for business use. 
Miss G has acknowledged that she didnt request cover for business use, but she says this 
was an innocent mistake and not intentional. 
QIC says Miss G took out the policy via a comparison site. Its provided screenshots of what 
she would have seen at the time.
For the question What do you use your car for? there were three options  Social, 
domestic and pleasure only (SDP), Social, domestic, pleasure and commuting (SDPC) and 
SDPC and Business Use. There is also a description for each option.
The description for SDPC says it includes commuting to and from your single permanent 
place of work. The SDPC & Business Use description says this also includes business use 
and goes on to say: Business use is travelling to and from more than one location for 
business purposes.
Before selecting the quotation for QICs policy, the comparison site advised that some 
providers may ask extra questions to ensure they can offer cover that suits your needs, 
which may impact your premium. It also said: The important bit. Please check your details 
and make sure the policy information is suitable for your needs before purchasing.
QIC has also provided screenshots to show what Miss G would have seen after moving on 
to the brokers website. It asks: What will your car be used for? with a dropdown box to 
select Social, Domestic & Pleasure (SDP), SDP inc. commuting or a Business Use 
option. 
There is a ? next to it which allows the applicant to click on to Class of Use definitions.
Miss Gs representative has commented that the information on the brokers website is 
ambiguous. Hes referred to wording which says:
Do I need to select business use on my car insurance policy?
Providing you only travel to a single place of work then you will not need business use on 
your policy, though you will need to add commuting. If you travel to more than one place for 
work, then you will need to select business use in order to be covered correctly.
He thinks it would have been clearer if the statement said: If you travel to more than one 
location with regard to your employment then you will need to add business use.I appreciate Mr G believes Miss G would have been more likely to have given accurate 
information if this statement had been worded differently. However, the definition for 
Business Use  You on the brokers website says:
This covers personal use, driving to and from work, and use by you for your business and 
that of your employer (for example, driving to other sites and meetings elsewhere)...
Im satisfied, from what Ive seen, that the questions on both the comparison site and the 
brokers website were clear and unambiguous. 
The information the broker sent out with the policy documents says:
We rely on the information you give us when deciding whether or not to offer you an 
insurance quotation. You must take reasonable care to provide full and accurate answers to 
the questions we ask when you take out, make changes to and renew your policy. If you do 
not give us full and accurate information, we or your insurer may cancel your policy (or 
policies), refuse to pay any claim, pay only part of a claim, alter the extent of your cover or 
treat your policy as though it never existed. Also, your details may be added to the national 
Insurance Fraud Register.
There are further warnings that a failure to supply accurate and complete answers may 
mean that your policy is invalid and that it does not operate in the event of a claim on the 
statement of facts.
So, Im also satisfied that Miss G was made aware of the importance of checking that the 
information QIC held was correct, and the potential consequences of providing inaccurate 
information.
The policy documents show the use of the car as Social, Domestic, Pleasure.  And on the 
motor insurance certificate under Limitations as to use it says: Use for social domestic and 
pleasure purposes, including travel between home and any permanent place of work. The 
motor insurance certificate also says: This policy does not cover any trade, business or 
professional use.. So, Miss G appears to have selected SDP inc. commuting, rather than 
business use when she took out the policy.
In a telephone conversation after the accident, Miss G told QIC she used her car for 
journeys as part of her employment. The accident occurred when Miss G was carrying out 
one of her duties for her employer. Given the descriptions on both the comparison website 
and the brokers website, Miss G should have said her car would be used for business use. 
As she didnt, I think this means Miss G failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she took out the policy.
Qualifying misrepresentation
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies providing the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.Mr G says that after the avoidance of the policy, he and Miss G completed an online 
application for business use entering the same details for Miss G as before, (except for her 
name) and it wasnt declined. However, I havent seen evidence to support this. 
QIC has provided a screenshot of its underwriting criteria which shows it would have 
declined cover for business use for Miss Gs occupation. So, Im satisfied that Miss Gs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Remedy
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC has treated the misrepresentation made by Miss G as careless meaning that it didnt 
consider it to be deliberate or reckless. I think this is fair. If a qualifying breach is neither 
deliberate nor reckless and the insurer wouldnt have provided the insurance, it may avoid 
the contract and refuse any claims, but it must return the premium.
As QIC has shown that it would have declined cover if Miss G had provided accurate 
information when she took out the policy, I think its decision to avoid the policy was fair.
Mr G has questioned why the premium wasnt returned to Miss G. 
QIC says it retained the premium because Miss G was at fault for the accident. Its referred 
to wording in its policy which says:
Any claim made in relation to your vehicle will not be met by the insurer who also retains the 
right to recover from you any outlay which they are obliged to make (under the various Road 
Traffic Acts) in relation to a claim from a third party.
QIC says it has had a financial outlay to the third party, which would explain why the 
premium hasnt been returned.
I understand Miss G disputes being responsible for the accident and is unhappy that QIC 
admitted liability for it on her behalf. However, her concerns about this go beyond the scope 
of this complaint. So, I havent considered these matters here.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss G. I understand this has been a very 
distressing situation for her and I empathise. However, I think QICs decision to avoid her 
policy was fair and reasonable, in line with the relevant law.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman