DRN-4444595
The complaint
Mrs G and her children, Mr G and Miss G, complain that Interactive Investor Services 
Limited wont redesignate two general investment accounts (GIAs) from Mrs Gs name into 
Mr G and Miss Gs names. And they complain that Mr Gs junior ISA (JISA) didnt mature 
into an ISA account when he reached the age of 18. As a result, Mrs G holds accounts in her 
name containing assets that she says dont belong to her; and she has a second ISA in her 
name, instead of Mr Gs, which isnt allowed under the ISA rules. 
The complaint is brought on their behalves by a third party. For ease of reading, Ill refer to 
everything as if its been said by Mrs G. 
The accounts Mrs G complains about were opened with a predecessor business. Interactive 
Investor took over the accounts in 2018 and is responsible for this complaint. For ease, Ill 
refer to the business as Interactive Investor throughout.
What happened
In or around early 2017, Mrs G says she contacted Interactive Investor to ask how to set up 
GIAs and junior ISA accounts for her children. She completed the required account 
applications and funded the accounts. She says she understood the accounts would transfer 
into the childrens own names when they reached the age of 18. 
She complains that the two GIAs remain in her name, even though they were set up as 
designated to her children. The children are now 18 and shes instructed Interactive Investor 
to transfer the accounts to them. 
She says the JISA account for Miss G correctly matured into an adult ISA when she reached 
the age of 18 and she has been able to deposit money into the account herself. But the JISA 
account for Mr G didnt mature into an adult ISA when he reached 18. He couldnt deposit 
money into the account and, despite contacting Interactive Investor, the matter remained 
unresolved by March 2020. So that he didnt lose his ISA allowance for that year, he opened 
a fresh ISA account, but Mrs G says this was wrongly set up in her name. The same thing 
happened for the 2020/21 tax year. Mrs G made her own ISA subscriptions for these years, 
so it looks like shes made a double subscription each year, which is against the rules. 
She wants the GIAs transferred into the names of the rightful owners  Miss G and Mr G. 
And she wants Mr Gs ISA account put in his name. She would also like compensation for 
the time and trouble shes been caused. 
Interactive Investor said that, when the GIAs were set up, Mrs G was able to assign them to 
the intended beneficiaries, but they remained legally hers. They werent set up as bare 
trustee accounts. Interactive Investor cant transfer the accounts to Mrs Gs children without 
them opening accounts in their own names. 
Turning to the ISAs, it said a separate email address was provided meaning separate ISAs 
were opened and werent linked to Mrs Gs ISA account. 
Our investigators conclusions
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Gs complaint about the trading accounts should 
be upheld. She said the accounts didnt have the status or structure of a bare trustee 
account and the owner of the accounts was Mrs G. 
The investigator didnt think it was reasonable that Interactive Investor had allowed Mrs G to 
open multiple ISA accounts in the same tax year. She thought Interactive Investor should 
transfer any subscriptions that were over the permitted limit into a GIA in Mr Gs name. And 
that it should pay Mrs G £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The parties responses 
Interactive Investor said it had sought guidance from HMRC about the ISAs. It said it could 
void the ISA and return the funds to Mrs Gs bank account or transfer the stock into her 
trading account. These assets would be subject to capital gains tax as they shouldnt have 
been held in an ISA wrapper. It said it was Mrs Gs decision to open separate ISA accounts 
for each of the tax years and it was her responsibility to ensure she didnt exceed the annual 
allowance. And it said Mr G wasnt entitled to £40,000 in a tax-free wrapper as the JISA 
contributions were limited to £18,000 a year. 
Mrs G responded to say that Mr G had lost out on £40,000 of ISA contributions and that 
Interactive Investor should have stopped two ISAs being opened in the same name in the 
same tax year.
My provisional decision
As neither party agreed with the investigators conclusion, the complaint was passed to me. 
I thought the GIAs set up for the children should be transferred into their own names and I 
explained why. I said:
Mrs G says her intention when she opened and funded the two GIAs designated to 
each of her children, was that these accounts would transfer into each of their sole 
names when they reached the age of 18. Interactive Investor says it inherited the 
accounts from the previous business and they were set up as designated accounts. It 
says this was simply to segregate savings between beneficiaries whilst the 
ownership of the accounts remained with Mrs G. It told us the children would have 
had to provide their permission to set the accounts up as bare trustee. It couldnt 
provide any recorded phone calls from when the accounts were set up, or any 
additional paperwork. 
I dont find its necessary for a trust deed to be drawn up to establish a bare trust. 
Whats important is the donor/settlors intentions. Whilst it would have been helpful 
for Mrs G to clearly evidence her intentions at the time, Im persuaded there is 
enough evidence to show she intended the accounts to be held as bare trustee 
accounts. I say this because:
In her letter to set up the accounts dated 8 February 2017, she asked for two 
accounts to be opened in her name designated to each of her children. She 
said the first account is for my son and gave his full name and date of birth; 
and the second account is for my daughter and gave her full name and date 
of birth. If she wanted the accounts designated simply to remind her of the 
intended beneficiary, I wouldnt have expected her to provide dates of birth. I think this supports her intention that the accounts would be transferred to the 
children once they reached 18.
Most importantly, Mrs G has provided evidence to show that the accounts 
were funded from bank accounts in each of her childrens sole names. These 
payments were rejected by Interactive Investor because it had set the GIAs 
up in Mrs Gs name and the money was being transferred from bank accounts 
which werent in her name. It told her the children should transfer the money 
to Mrs Gs bank account and then she should fund the accounts from there. 
Im satisfied the money used to fund these accounts was the childrens and 
not Mrs Gs. Theres nothing to suggest the money was gifted to Mrs G or that 
she should have any ownership over the accounts now that the children are 
18.
Interactive Investor sent Mrs G regular statements and valuations. She 
received a separate statement for her own GIA, SIPP, and ISA accounts; a 
separate statement for her sons GIA and JISA accounts; and a separate 
statement for her daughters GIA and JISA accounts. This supports her 
intention that the two GIAs designated in her childrens names were not hers.
Mrs Gs actions when her children reached the age of 18 support her 
intentions. She contacted Interactive Investor to ask why the accounts hadnt 
automatically transferred to her children.
Mrs G has told us she has not paid any tax on the income or gains in the 
accounts. These have been declared in the childrens own tax returns. 
For these reasons, I think the money that was used to fund the childrens accounts 
was always their own and that Mrs G had to be named on the account because they 
were under the age of 18. Now that they have both reached the age of 18, the 
accounts should be in each of their sole names. 
Interactive Investor says it cant re-designate the accounts. But it will need to arrange 
for the assets in each account to be transferred into an account in the relevant childs 
name. And the children will need to complete whatever account opening forms and 
procedures that Interactive Investor requires. This should be carried out at no cost to 
Mrs G or her children. 
Mrs G is concerned that the transfer of the accounts from her name to her children 
will be wrongly treated as a gift. But I think the evidence shes provided shows that 
the accounts should always have been treated as her childrens accounts and that 
the money came from their own sources.
I agreed with our investigators conclusion about Mr Gs ISA account. I said:
Interactive Investor told us that Mr Gs JISA automatically converted to an adult ISA 
when he turned 18 in January 2019. But restrictions were placed on the account, 
meaning it was effectively blocked, until such time that Mr G provided the 
documentation it had requested. Im satisfied from what Interactive Investor has 
provided that it most likely would have sent a letter to Mrs G in August 2018 to tell 
her what Mr G needed to provide to be able to access his ISA once he turned 18. 
And that it most likely would have sent a letter to Mr G on the day he turned 18 to 
request the identity documents it required, because they hadnt been received. And 
Im persuaded that Mrs G would have been familiar with what was required because her daughter had already turned 18 and had provided the necessary documents to 
enable her to access her adult ISA. 
Interactive Investor said it didnt receive the documentation it had requested from Mr 
G until March 2021. So from January 2019 to March 2021, his ISA account couldnt 
be funded. 
Mrs G says she, or her son, made numerous complaints and telephone calls 
because Mr Gs ISA couldnt be funded and that, by March 2020, they were 
becoming increasingly concerned because he wanted to utilise his annual ISA 
allowance before the end of the tax year. But Ive not seen evidence of any contact 
with Interactive Investor about this. And I asked Interactive Investor for its contact 
records, and it said it only has what it sent to Mrs G in August 2018 and Mr G in 
2019. From what Ive seen so far, Interactive Investor told Mr G what it needed for 
him to be able to unblock and fund his account, but Mr G didnt send in the required 
paperwork until March 2021. 
In the meantime, Mrs G says Mr G was forced to open a fresh ISA account so that he 
didnt miss out on his 2019/20 subscription. But the account was opened using Mrs 
Gs customer number and details. Thats because, as noted above, the GIA was 
wrongly in Mrs Gs name rather than her sons. Our investigator thought Interactive 
Investor shouldve had procedures in place to recognise that Mrs G had funded two 
ISA accounts. I agree. Whilst a different email address was provided, the account 
was clearly set up as being Mrs Gs when shed already subscribed for an ISA in that 
tax year and Interactive Investor should reasonably have had procedures in place to 
identify this. 
For this reason, the ISA should be voided. 
As noted above, Ive not seen evidence to show that Mr G provided the documents 
he needed to to be able to fund an ISA account, until March 2021. For that reason, I 
dont find he should receive the tax-free ISA benefits of the voided ISA. The ISA only 
contains cash and Interactive Investor should transfer this to Mr G. There should be 
no cost to either Mrs G or Mr G for transferring and closing the ISA. 
Interactive Investor has provided information which shows that capital gains were 
made within the ISA. The transactions may need to be declared in Mr Gs tax returns.
I went on to consider the compensation Interactive Investor should pay for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused. I said:
Mrs G has been caused a considerable amount of distress and inconvenience 
because, firstly, Interactive Investor didnt set up the GIAs correctly and the accounts 
failed to automatically transfer into the childrens names when they turned 18. And, 
secondly, its failed to recognise shed funded multiple ISA accounts in her name. I 
think its fair and reasonable that Interactive Investor pays Mrs G £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Interactive Investor acknowledged my provisional decision but didnt provide any further 
evidence, information or comment.
Mrs G responded in some detail to say, in summary, that:In December 2021, she had liquidated the two GIAs designated to her children and 
transferred the proceeds to accounts in their names, repurchasing the investments. She 
said a nominal cash sum remained in each of the original accounts as she didnt want 
to close the accounts until the matter was resolved. She said it would be too time-
consuming now to calculate the cost of the transfers. But she said Interactive Investor 
had continued to charge a monthly account fee and she would like this refunded.
She said the documents needed for Mr G to access his adult ISA had been supplied 
twice by them, and it was only on the third occasion that Interactive Investor unblocked 
his account. She provided various information and supporting documents which she said 
shows Interactive Investor, rather than her and Mr G, were at fault.
She thinks the loss of the tax wrapper warrants a higher level of compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Mrs G responded in some detail to my provisional decision. Im not going to respond 
to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The general investment accounts (GIAs)
In my provisional decision, I said Interactive Investor needed to transfer the assets held in 
each of the designated GIAs to Miss G and Mr G. Until Mrs G responded to that, neither 
party had made us aware that the investments held in the GIAs and been sold, and the 
proceeds transferred to new accounts in each of the childrens names. Mrs G says a small 
amount of cash remains in each account. So to complete the transfer, Interactive Investor 
should transfer the cash held to each of the new accounts in Miss G and Mr Gs names.
Had the investments not been sold and re-purchased in the new accounts, I would have 
directed Interactive Investor to transfer the investments at no cost to Mrs G or her children. 
Mrs G says it will be too time consuming for her to calculate the costs incurred in taking the 
action she did so, without that evidence, I cant order Interactive Investor to reimburse her.
In taking the action she did, the two designated GIAs have only held cash since December 
2021 but Interactive Investor has continued to charge a monthly fee. Its not entirely clear to 
me why Mrs G didnt transfer the entire cash balance and close the accounts. She says it 
made sense to keep the accounts open until this service issued a final decision. I appreciate 
she isnt the expert here, but keeping the accounts open wasnt necessary and would have 
avoided incurring the monthly fees, which were charged in line with the agreed terms.
That said, Mrs G was trying to resolve matters because  as I have concluded - Interactive 
Investor made a mistake in not re-designating the accounts when the children turned 18. 
I think in the circumstances it would be fair and reasonable for Interactive Investor to refund 
its fees charged from the date Mrs G transferred the sale proceeds out, to the date of 
account closure.
Mr Gs ISA accountIn my provisional decision, I said the ISA account that was opened  because Mr G couldnt 
access his JISA  was opened using Mrs Gs customer number and details. And that, 
because shed already used her ISA contribution, this ISA needed to be voided.
Mrs G re-sent evidence of an Interactive Investor statement which shows the ISA account 
linked to the GIA account in Mrs Gs name designated to Mr G. But I was already aware of 
how the account was set up, and this statement, when I came to my earlier conclusion. 
I think Mrs G was acting with the best of intentions. But Mr G would only be able to keep the 
tax-free benefits of this duplicate ISA if I found he had provided the necessary documents for 
Interactive Investor to set up the account. Ive gone on to reconsider that.
In my provisional decision, I said I didnt think Mr G should receive the tax-free ISA benefits 
of the voided ISA because I hadnt seen evidence to show hed provided the documents 
needed to fund the ISA until March 2021.
Mrs G says the documents were sent in twice. She feels strongly that Interactive Investor 
either lost them or destroyed them because it couldnt match the documents to the account. 
Shes provided examples of Interactive Investors failures and her own diligent record 
keeping which she says suggests the fault is more likely to rest with Interactive Investor. 
Shes also provided a call history and suggested that if Interactive Investor was asked to 
supply recordings of the calls it would prove her case.
Ive considered everything Mrs G has told us. Even if I accepted that she, or Mr G, did send 
the documents Interactive Investor needed, Ive not seen evidence to show that Interactive 
Investor received them. Whilst I accept its possible that Interactive Investor received them, 
Ive seen insufficient evidence to conclude thats whats likely to have happened. And, whilst 
there were phone calls in 2019 and 2020, if recordings are available the content is unlikely to 
change my conclusion. Thats because, the calls wouldnt show any proof of receipt. Without 
that, I cant say Interactive Investor acted wrongly in not removing the block from the ISA 
account.
I set out in my provisional decision why I thought £500 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mrs G was caused. I appreciate Mrs G 
thinks this sum should be higher and Ive reconsidered this in the light of her further 
comments. But Im not persuaded to change my conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that Interactive Investor Services Limited should: 
1. Refund the fees charged in Mrs Gs GIA designated to Miss G, from the date the bulk of 
the investments were sold in or around December 2021 to the date of settlement.
2. Refund the fees charged in Mrs Gs GIA designated to Mr G, from the date the bulk of 
the investments were sold in or around December 2021 to the date of settlement.
3. Arrange for the cash, and any remaining assets, in Mrs Gs GIA, designated to Miss G, 
to be transferred into Miss Gs name at no cost to Mrs G or Miss G. 
4. Arrange for the cash, and any remaining assets in Mrs Gs GIA, designated to Mr G, to 
be transferred into Mr Gs name at no cost to Mrs G or Mr G. 
5. Void Mrs Gs duplicate ISA. Transfer the assets in that ISA to Mr G, at no cost to either 
Mrs G or Mr G. 6. Pay Mrs G £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G, Mrs G and 
Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman