DRN-4098088
The complaint
Mrs T complains about AXA Insurance PLC (AXA) who declined her claim under her 
buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs T discovered a leak in her home coming through her ceiling and contacted her home 
emergency provider. They attended and advised her that the leak was coming from failed 
shower seals. Mrs T was unhappy with the diagnosis and contacted an independent 
contractor who attended and said that the leak was coming from a water inlet pipe, that was 
located in a wall cavity, access of which was via a bedroom wardrobe. 
Mrs T then contacted her home emergency provider again to repair the leak, which they did 
by cutting a hole in the wall and gaining access. Mrs T then contacted AXA to claim for the 
repair of the wall.  
AXA sent a surveyor to assess the damage. He wrote a report in which he said that the leak 
that had caused damage to Mrs T ceiling, wasnt from the inlet pipe in the wall cavity, as the 
cavity and insulation that was inside the wall was dry. So, AXA declined Mrs Ts claim. 
Mrs T complained to AXA as she was unhappy with the conclusions reached by its surveyor. 
In its final response, AXA maintained its position, that the source of the leak wasnt from the 
inlet pipe as the area that it was contained in, was dry. It also said that there were service 
issues and for those including the delays in responding to Mrs T, it offered and paid a total of 
£175 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mrs T was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. He said that AXA 
had been fair to decline the claim as there was no evidence that the leak had occurred from 
the inlet pipe, given that the area that the pipe was located, was dry. He said there mightve 
been a leak in that pipe, but the water wasnt sufficient to have caused the damage to the 
ceiling. In addition, the ceiling had evidence of mould on it, which indicated that the leak had 
happened a while ago. He agreed with the expert that AXA had used and concluded that 
there was nothing further he could reasonably ask AXA to do. 
AXA accepted the view, Mrs T did not.  She said that she believed that the leak came form 
the inlet pipe. She said that her ceiling didnt have mould. She said that the shower might 
have had mould, but the sealant was working as intended. As she disputed our investigators 
view, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs T, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Having reviewed the evidence provided to me from both sides, I think the main issues of this 
complaint are whether there is persuasive evidence that shows that the leak originated from, 
either failure of the shower sealant, or from the inlet pipe that was located in a cavity wall. 
And whether AXA was fair to decline Mrs Ts claim. I have also reviewed the policy terms 
and conditions and I note that both parties have relied upon their respective expert evidence 
in support of their respective positions.  
Mrs T relied upon two reports from her home emergency provider and from an independent 
contractor. The report from the home emergency provider, found that the inlet pipe was 
loose and required tightening. The pipe was located in a wall cavity and the area was 
positioned above the ceiling. The damage was noted as water damage to ceiling, flooring 
and a room carpet. 
The report from the independent contractor noted that the source of the leak came from the 
inlet pipe but noticed that there was water dripping from the shower. Mrs T said that this was 
evidence that the shower seals were intact, but the source of the leak was from the inlet 
pipe. 
AXA relied upon its surveyor who attended Mrs Ts home and assessed the damage. The 
report that was written (including extensive photographs) found that inside a cupboard was a 
hole cut into the wall, which exposed the inlet pipe. The area was full of insulation which he 
found to be dry. As well as the wall having no presence of moisture. He found that the floor 
was extremely wet and that the chipboard had no signs of long-term exposure to water and 
had small damp patches. He concluded that it was impossible for water to have caused the 
damage to the ceiling below, without there being any presence of water on the insulation or 
wall, which were both dry and showed no water damage at all. 
He also found that the shower seals had failed and that water was present in the area. The 
damage to the up and downstairs was consistent with failed shower seals. And he noted that 
the first engineer from Mrs Ts home emergency provider, had identified that the shower 
seals had perished. He concluded that it would have been impossible for the insulation and 
wall to have no moisture reading or dry, if the source of the leak had been the inlet pipe. The 
damage seen was typical of failed shower seals. 
I have carefully considered all the expert reports before me. I note that the independent 
expert as well as the first home emergency engineer who attended, both saw water coming 
from the shower seals. The AXA surveyor noted damage from the shower seals and 
provided photographic evidence that showed that the seals were in a very poor state.  
Whilst I understand that Mrs T believes that the shower seals were intact, given the evidence 
before me, Im persuaded that they were not. Also, had the source of the leak been the inlet 
pipe, as Mrs Ts independent contractor appears to say in his report, then I wouldve 
expected that the internal walls and the insulation would be wet from the escape of water. 
But, having reviewed the photographs and the AXAs surveyors report, I think it is more 
likely than not, that the source of the leak wasnt the inlet pipe. The area in which the pipe 
was contained and the insulation surrounding it was dry. The readings showed no moisture 
being present. So, Im persuaded that the more likely source of the leak was the failed 
shower sealant, which the evidence shows had occurred over a period of time.Whilst I understand how disappointed Mrs T will be, I dont think that AXA did anything 
wrong here. Im satisfied that it fairly declined her claim under the policy exclusions and that 
it relied upon its expert in which to do so. 
I also think that AXA was fair to pay Mrs T a total of £175 for the poor service failings, she 
experienced. Consequently, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman