DRN-2706337
The complaint
Miss M and Mr M are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined their claim 
under their contents insurance for theft of a watch.
The policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr M throughout my decision.
What happened
The circumstances are well-known to both parties and have been the subject of a previous 
complaint and ombudsmans decision, so I wont repeat the detail here. In brief, Mr Ms high-
value watch was stolen when he was on a beach overseas. Aviva declined his claim 
because he hadnt reported the theft to the police.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because she thought Aviva had declined the 
claim fairly under the terms of the policy.
Mr M didnt agree because hed tried to report the theft to the police but was hindered by the 
language barrier.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for the same 
reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Aviva declined Mr Ms claim because he breached General Condition 4a:
4. Claims
Your duties
As soon as you are aware of an event or cause that is likely to lead to a claim under this 
policy, you must:
a. tell the police immediately about any property which has been lost, stolen ormaliciously 
damaged, and get a crime reference number.
Ive looked at the reports Mr M made to Aviva and its agents about what he did when he 
noticed the watch was missing. While there are some discrepancies, in general it seems he 
reported the theft to a uniformed officer on the beach. Its not clear whether this officer was a 
police officer or a beach security officer, but I dont think that matters. Thats because Mr M 
confirmed that he didnt obtain a crime reference number (CRN) from the officer because 
there was a language barrier. That being the case, Mr M mustve been aware that while hed 
tried to report the theft, he hadnt succeeded in communicating it properly to the police, nor 
had he obtained a CRN.
Mr M went on to report the theft to the hotel reception staff on more than one occasion, but 
he felt they were disinclined to help, and the language barrier was a factor here, too. I can 
sympathise with Mr M and the frustration he mustve felt, but it doesnt change the fact that, 
at this point, he had still failed to report the matter to the police successfully and obtain a 
CRN.
Ive noted that Mr M didnt know where the police station was and, if he had, hed have spent 
more than five hours making the report using a translator. Aviva provided evidence showing 
that theres a tourist police station on the beach where the theft took place, and just a six-
minute walk from Mr Ms hotel. I appreciate that spending a day at the police station wasnt 
what Mr M wouldve wanted to do while on holiday, but with his watch valued at £10,000 its 
reasonable that Aviva expected him to meet the conditions of his policy.
Mr M feels he did enough to try to report the theft by telling the uniformed officer on the 
beach and reporting it to hotel staff. He also says the country he was in doesnt provide CRN 
or police reports. After a brief search, I understand that although time-consuming, its 
possible to obtain a police report. But that point is irrelevant because Mr M didnt visit the 
police station to try to get one. The policy clearly states that he must report the theft to the 
police and obtain a CRN, but theres no evidence that he did either.
Overall, Im satisfied that the terms of the policy are clear, and that Aviva fairly declined Mr 
Ms claim because he didnt report the theft to the police and obtain a CRN.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman