DRN-2707474
The complaint
This complaint is about the amount of compensation The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
offered to Miss F in relation to payment protection insurance (PPI) that was mis-sold to her 
alongside a credit card in 1989. Miss F states she is confused as to why the offer RBS 
initially made to her was reduced by more than £3,000. 
I know that Miss Fs credit card was with NatWest. Ill refer to RBS for the rest of this 
decision because thats the business responsible for answering Miss Fs complaint. 
What happened
On 2 June 2020, RBS agreed that it had mis-sold PPI to Miss F and it offered to pay 
£8,086.46 in compensation. RBS identified that Miss F made a successful claim on the 
policy between 2002 and 2003 and so it deducted the value of that claim from its offer of 
compensation.
 
In the final response letter, RBS said that it did not have Miss Fs card account records 
before 2001. So it made assumptions based on Miss Fs more recent card data about what 
she had most likely paid in premiums between 1989 and 2001. RBS told Miss F that the 
assumptions it made were probably favourable to her, but that if she had more accurate 
information and wanted the offer to be recalculated, she should provide it with that 
information. 
On 11 June 2020, Miss F sent RBS a number of credit card statements from 1994 to 2001 
and she asked for the offer of compensation to be recalculated. On 15 September 2020, 
RBS wrote to Miss F to say that it had undertaken the requested recalculation and upon 
using the data she provided, it offered to pay her £4,837.90.  
Miss F did not accept the revised offer and she complained to this service. 
After making further enquiries of RBS, our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said he thought the second offer RBS made was fair and it was based upon the 
data Miss F had provided in her statements. Miss F disagreed with that view. She said that 
the compound interest had decreased by £3,000 when the amount of premiums she paid 
had not differed significantly from those assumed by RBS. She also said that when she 
submitted statement data to RBS, she believed it was likely RBS would increase its original 
offer. I can see Miss F has provided some alternative calculations she believes show RBS 
did not compensate her fairly.
RBS agreed to provide its calculation of compensation to Miss F. Miss F did not think it 
constituted fair redress. In summary, she said: 
It was wrong of RBS to deduct the value of her PPI claim from the compensation she 
was owed. The claim payouts were against her statement balance and not her PPI 
premiums. By doing this, the amount of compound interest RBS paid had reduced 
significantly. She said that RBS had double counted the PPI claim by then deducting 
it from her PPI claim; 
Premiums and actual interest should be paid without being adjusted by payment 
activity against the reconstructed balance. The approach of RBS materially affected 
its offer of compound interest and Miss F considered it to be materially unfair; 
Statutory interest should be awarded on the combined total premiums and total 
associated premium interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, I dont have to look at how the policy came to be 
sold to Miss F. The issue for me to consider is whether the compensation RBS offered for 
that mis-sale was fair. 
I am sorry to hear that this matter is causing Miss F a lot of stress. I can see she has put a 
lot of time into pursuing her complaint and I am very grateful for her efforts in that regard. I 
want to assure Miss F that I have considered this matter at some considerable length. But 
having done so, Im afraid I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below. 
I think it is very important for me to stress that the question for me is whether the approach 
RBS took when it calculated Miss Fs redress was a fair approach. As I said above, I am 
grateful to Miss F for the efforts she has made in providing alternative calculations. I accept 
there are many ways in which compensation could be calculated. But just because it could 
be calculated in different ways, that doesnt mean the approach undertaken by RBS is unfair. 
Generally speaking, as far as it is practicable, I would expect RBS to put Miss F in the 
position she would have been in if the PPI hadnt been sold. So in this credit card case, RBS 
would need to reconstruct Miss Fs credit card account as though she hadnt taken out a PPI 
policy. It would need to refund all the extra she had paid because of the PPI policy, including 
any additional interest and charges. The business would also need to pay 8% simple interest 
for any periods when the account would have been in credit if PPI had not been added. 
At times, particularly if a consumer has had their credit card for a long time, a business may 
not have all of the records going back to the date the PPI policy started. In such 
circumstances, the business would need to make some reasonable assumptions about how 
much the consumer would have paid for PPI.  
I have given careful consideration to the calculation RBS undertook in September 2020. I 
can see that it calculated the PPI premiums Miss F paid between 1989 and 2008. It has also 
calculated compound interest it said Miss F would have paid based upon those premiums 
from that time. I can also see RBS has calculated 8% simple interest for the periods when 
her account would have been in credit but for the PPI policy. I can also see that RBS 
deducted the value of the successful claim Miss F made in 2002/3.   
As set out above, in the calculation, RBS made some assumptions about how much Miss F 
paid up to May 1994. This is because it did not have any statement data up to that point. I 
can also see it made some assumptions where there are gaps in the data it holds after that 
date. Im satisfied that the assumptions RBS made in that regard are reasonable. And 
although Miss F disagrees, some of the assumptions may well be in Miss Fs favour. Thats 
because RBS may have assumed a higher premium than shown in the data both 
immediately before and after the date of the missing information. 
I appreciate Miss F doesnt think RBS should have deducted the value of her PPI claim from 
the compensation. But I think RBS was right to do so. I say this because the purpose of 
compensating Miss F is to return her to the position she would have been in if she didnt 
have a PPI policy. So if I tell RBS to refund all of the PPI premiums without deducting the 
value of the claim, Miss Fs would be in a better position because she would have had all of her money back for the policy, as well as benefitting from the PPI claim. I dont agree with 
Miss F that it amounts to double counting. 
Ive also given careful thought to what Miss F said about premiums and interest being 
refunded to her without taking account of her payment activity. I note from the calculation 
revised in September 2020 that RBS has not assumed payments where it does not have 
data. But where it does have data, I think it is right for RBS to take account of the payment 
activity. And thats because of what I said above  the purpose of compensating Miss F is to 
put her in the position she would have been in if PPI hadnt been mis-sold. So when she 
made payments, elements of PPI would be taken out of the outstanding balance and so the 
compound interest would also reduce. If RBS ignores the payment data as Miss F suggests, 
it would mean she was put in a better position.  
Miss F thinks that simple interest (or statutory interest as Miss F refers to it) should be paid 
on top of the refunded premiums and the refunded interest. I think its helpful for me to 
explain that the purpose of such interest is to compensate Miss F for the lost opportunity to 
use the money she used to pay for PPI in the way she might have chosen to do so if PPI had 
not been mis-sold. So, she would have only lost the opportunity to use those funds when her 
account was in credit. When there was an outstanding balance on her account even when it 
had been reconstructed, she wouldnt have had that money in her pocket because there 
would still have been some money owing on her credit card account regardless. So I dont 
think it would be right to tell RBS to pay 8% simple interest to her for any periods when her 
account would not have been in credit. 
Miss F raised a query as to apparent spending on her account when she said the credit card 
itself has been returned to the bank and she has not used the card since November 2009. I 
can see that data from RBS appears to show that from 2017, Miss F had generally made 
payments of £1 per month towards the outstanding statement balance. Miss F interpreted 
the data as also showing she spent an equivalent amount each month. The payment activity 
is outside the scope of this complaint, but insofar as it is relevant to this complaint, the 
payments Miss F queried wouldnt have been enough to put her account into credit, so 
would not have affected the simple interest due. No PPI had been charged on the card since 
2009 and interest on the outstanding balance looks as though it has been frozen since 2009 
as well. In summary, I dont think the query about the payments would have altered the 
calculation of her compensation. 
I fully understand why Miss F feels aggrieved because the revised offer RBS made to her is 
significantly lower than its original offer. But the offer was only revised after Miss F sent her 
statements to the bank so that the compensation could be recalculated using her actual 
data. I appreciate Miss F thought using the actual data meant she would get more, but in its 
customer offer, RBS did say it thought its assumptions were in Miss Fs favour. I cant 
reasonably say RBS led Miss F to believe the offer would increase if she sent her actual 
statement data. On the contrary, it appears to have put her on notice that its offer may well 
have been favourable to her. 
I am sorry to hear that this matter has caused Miss F such stress and preoccupation. I have 
thought very carefully about all of the issues she has raised. I appreciate she doesnt agree, 
but I think the way RBS calculated its offer is fair and in line with what I would have expected 
it to do. I dont need to tell RBS to take any further action. But if the compensation payment 
has not yet been processed, it will need to recalculate the 8% simple interest up to the date 
of payment. 
My final decisionI dont uphold the complaint and I dont require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to take any 
further action in respect of the complaint. However, if the redress it offered has not yet been 
processed, it must update the 8% simple interest to be calculated up to the date it is paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman