DRN-3793507
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy. 
References to LV include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr R was selling his car and advertised it online with a company Ill refer to as C. He says he 
had agreed a price for the car with C. Mr R says a potential buyer came to view the car, and 
paid £19,000 directly to the finance company to settle the finance agreement. He says the 
buyer then wanted to negotiate a lower total price for the car, which he didnt agree to, but 
the buyer drove off, without paying him the balance for the car. Mr R says he complained to 
C and he later received £7,700, however he says this was still £1,300 less than the agreed 
amount. 
Mr R says he reported the incident to the police, and he later phoned LV to make a claim on 
his policy for theft. LV declined the claim, it said as the car was exchanged for money, it was 
classed as a sale. It thought it was a civil matter for Mr R and C to come to an agreement on 
how to resolve it. Unhappy with its decision Mr R complained. He was also unhappy with the 
way his phone calls with LV had been handled. LV thought Mr Rs claim was excluded under 
the terms and conditions of the policy. It thought its call handlers had remained professional 
throughout their conversations with Mr R. 
Mr R brought his complaint to us. He says the questions LV asked were irrelevant. He thinks 
it tried to block his claim because he didnt have a crime reference number. Mr R says he 
went back to the police to obtain a crime reference, so he would like LV to honour his claim.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the questions LV 
asked Mr R were unnecessary. Our investigator said we generally think its standard for an 
insurer to expect the customer to provide a crime reference number. He said the checks LV 
carried out showed that there wasnt a stolen marker on the car at the time. And he didnt 
think the information Mr R gave was enough to show a theft took place. Our investigator 
thought the exclusions LV relied on would apply irrespective of if it was defined as theft or 
not. And he thought it was fair and reasonable for LV to conclude it was a civil matter and to 
decline the claim. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He says he did provide a crime 
reference number. He says the car was recovered and is still in the police impound because 
it is under a criminal investigation as it had stolen parts put on to it. Mr R thinks the evidence 
is there that it was stolen and recovered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy say LV will provide cover against loss or damage, 
caused by fire and theft and in the case of an accident. Mr R made a claim because he says 
his car was stolen. LV declined the claim because it thought the loss was more of a civil 
matter, a disagreement over the price of the car. So, I must decide if it applied the terms and 
conditions of the policy fairly and reasonably and if its decision to decline his claim was fair. 
To do this, Ive firstly considered whether what Mr R says happened, would be considered 
an insurable event under the policy and valid grounds for a claim. I dont think it was, and Ill 
explain why. 
The policy documentation says if the car is subject to a theft or attempted theft, to call the 
police and obtain a crime reference number. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to 
request one from Mr R. I can see from its claim notes, Mr R did later provide a crime 
reference number. But I dont think thats enough to say the car was stolen or that the claim 
should be paid. 
Neither party could provide the police report and Mr R says the car was picked up and is still 
in the police impound awaiting a criminal investigation. Its not clear whether thats in relation 
to the theft report Mr R says he made or because, as he says, the car had stolen parts 
added to it or for another reason. But I dont think that changes things.
Mr R said he was in the process of selling his car, which I have no reason to doubt, and as 
he confirmed he found the details of the person who he says took it on Cs website. He said 
that person paid towards the car, and considering they attempted to negotiate a lower price 
for it, Im satisfied they were looking to purchase it in response to Mr R offering his car for 
sale. 
I think its clear Mr R was intending to sell his car to the buyer and had agreed for them to 
settle the finance agreement as part of the payment for the car, which Mr R confirmed the 
buyer did do. I appreciate Mr R says the buyer then took the car before paying the remaining 
balance into his bank account. But after complaining to C, Mr R also received a further 
payment by bank transfer, though he says he is unsure who paid him. Regardless of 
whether the money transferred into his account was from C or directly from the buyer, Mr R 
seems to accept this was a payment towards the car.
LV said as Mr R had received money for the car, it considered this a sale. I dont think thats 
unreasonable. I say this because, while the amount he was paid may not have been what he 
agreed to, and regardless of when the additional payment was made he had still received 
£26,700 across the two transactions in exchange for the car. So, I can see why LV considers 
this to be more of a disagreement over the purchase price of the car, which wouldnt be 
covered under the policy, rather than a theft. I appreciate Mr R thinks the car was stolen, but 
as he already received payment for it, I cant reasonably expect LV to also pay him for it. LV 
said this is a civil matter to be settled between Mr R and C and I think thats reasonable.
Even if I were to agree that LV should consider Mr Rs claim for theft, it doesnt automatically 
follow that the claim would be paid. LV must still consider it in line with the exclusions of the 
policy. The terms and conditions of the policy state that cover isnt provided for: 
loss of or damage to your car caused by deception, fraud or trickery, including when you are 
offering your car for sale.
I find the policy didnt provide cover for loss in the circumstances in which Mr Rs car was 
taken. Ive thought about what Mr R says happened the day the buyer came to buy the car 
from him and whether he took reasonable steps to ensure the car was protected. And in these specific circumstances, I dont think he did. I say this because, when Mr R logged his 
claim, he informed the call handler that the spare key and the cars documentation had been 
inside the car at the time. He also said he didnt know who the buyer was and did not have 
any of his details at the time. Furthermore, after taking the car for a test drive, the main key 
was left in the buyers possession. Therefore, I dont find Mr R took reasonable steps to 
guard against the car being taken. So, even if Mr R had valid grounds to make a theft claim, 
I think its reasonable for LV to rely on this term to reject it.
Customer service
Ive listened to phone calls Mr R had with LV. When he phoned to log the claim, I note the 
handler asked several questions, but I didnt find the questions were excessive. When a 
claim is made, LV will ask questions in order to fully understand and establish what 
happened. Mr R was making a claim for a stolen car, so I do think its unreasonable he is 
asked questions to establish the circumstances of the theft. I note he did have to repeat 
some the information and I understand this would have been frustrating for him, but I think 
this was done so the call handler could understand and accurately record the details of the 
claim. 
I understand Mr R was upset about what had happened with the sale of his car and LVs 
decision to decline his claim. However, having listened to the phone calls I find he at times 
shouted at the call handlers. The call handlers had also felt it necessary to warn Mr R that 
they would terminate the call because of the language he had used. Despite this, I found the 
call handlers remained patient and professional. Therefore, I dont think LV needs to 
compensate Mr R for the service he received.  
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, but ultimately, I find LVs decision to 
decline the claim in these circumstances was fair and reasonable, and I dont think it needs 
to do anything differently. I note that Mr R says that the car is with the police pending a 
criminal investigation. If at some point in the future he has new information regarding this 
incident which he feels LV should consider, this is something he can raise with it and 
potentially with us if he is unhappy with its response.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman