DRN-3754114
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that the advice they received from Phoenix Life Limited in 1998, to 
take out a  unit-linked savings plan, was unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs P are represented in this matter. Their representative says the adviser:
- didnt discuss any alternative products with them;
- didnt discuss the charges involved; and,
- recommended a product that included life cover, but Mr and Mrs P didnt want 
additional life cover.
Their representative also says there was no clear rationale recorded for Mr and Mrs P 
wanting to take out the plan.
What happened
In early 1998, an adviser from Abbey Life (now part of Phoenix) met with Mr and Mrs P. He 
recorded that Mr and Mrs P were both aged 38 and were married with three dependent 
children. The adviser also recorded that they: 
- were self-employed;
- had a joint annual income of over £20,000; 
- had a monthly income of £1,600 and their monthly expenditure was £900, leaving 
them with a monthly disposable income of £700; and
- had no unsecured debts, owned their home (with a mortgage), and had three joint 
Abbey Life savings plans, a term assurance plan and personal pensions.
The adviser also recorded that Mr and Mrs P said they had additional money on deposit that 
they could use as an emergency fund, but he noted that Mr and Mrs P didnt want to disclose 
the value of their deposit based savings. 
Their attitude to risk was recorded as balanced and the adviser noted their investment 
priority was saving a regular amount towards a special birthday for their sons. 
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs P should take out an Abbey Life WealthMaster 
Plan, investing in its Managed fund, with a term of ten years.
The plan was a unit-linked savings plan and included an element of life cover. The 
guaranteed sum assured was £7,920. The payments into the plan started at £60 escalating 
each year for the first five years by £6 to £90 a month and remaining level thereafter. The 
plan included a waiver of premium benefit.
In 2022, Mr and Mrs Ps representative complained to Phoenix about the advice Mr and Mrs 
P had received from its adviser in 1998. Phoenix did not uphold the complaint. It said, in 
summary, that Mr and Mrs P already held a WealthMaster plan in 1998, when this advice 
was given, that they had taken out to save for their daughter. In view of this it said it was 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs P would have understood that the plan included death benefits and 
the charges involved with the plan.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative did not accept Phoenixs response and referred the complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator said she didnt think this complaint should be upheld as she didnt think the 
plan was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Ps personal and financial circumstances. 
She said she was satisfied that the fund recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps 
attitude to investment risk. She also said she was satisfied that the premiums, even after 
they had increased to £90 per month, would have been affordable based on the information 
recorded about Mr and Mrs Ps income and expenditure, at the time the advice was given. 
And she also said she was satisfied that there was a clear rationale for Mr and Mrs P taking 
out the plan as the documentation available showed that their overall objective was to save 
for their sons.
With regard to the charges attached to the plan, our investigator noted that Mr and Mrs P 
were provided with an illustration and Key Features document that detailed the charges 
involved. 
Likewise, although she noted the points Mr and Mrs Ps representative had made regarding 
the life cover attached to the plan, she said she didnt agree that the inclusion of life cover 
meant that the plan must be unsuitable. She noted that Phoenix had confirmed that over the 
life of the plan a total of £190.76 was deducted to pay for life cover, so the life cover was 
only a small element of the plan. In addition, she noted there was also the additional benefit 
that due to the life cover element the plan was qualifying, so the proceeds would not be 
subject to income or capital gains tax.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative did not accept our investigators view. It said, in summary that 
it felt the charges made the plan an unsuitable proposition. And it said:
Having the charges set out in an illustration without considering the alternatives that were 
available in the marketplace is not reasonable in our view. The client is not able to make a 
balanced and informed decision before proceeding. How can they know if the charges are 
reasonable when only this product was discussed when a PEP had far lower charges, 
greater tax efficiency and was far more flexible?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same view as our investigator, and for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
As Mr and Mrs Ps representative has not raised any new points about the affordability of the 
plan, the rationale for recommending a savings plan, the fund selection, or the term of the 
plan, I will not comment further on these points, other than to say that I agree with our 
investigators view on these aspects of the complaint.In its response to our investigators view Mr and Mrs Ps representative said it felt that:
Having the charges set out in an illustration without considering the alternatives that were 
available in the marketplace is not reasonable in our view.
It appears there may be a misunderstanding on the part of Mr and Mrs Ps representative 
about what the adviser was required to do.
As Mr and Mrs Ps representative will be aware, Mr and Mrs P were advised by an adviser 
working for Abbey Life when they took out the WealthMaster plan in 1998. The adviser was 
a tied adviser. This means he was only authorised to advise on the products available from 
Abbey Life. He would not have been permitted to advise Mr and Mrs P on the alternatives 
that were available in the marketplace. If Mr and Mrs P had wanted independent advice, 
they would have needed to get advice from an independent financial adviser.
As the adviser was not permitted to give advice on products outside Abbey Lifes product 
range, I cannot reasonably agree with Mr and Mrs Ps representatives view that the adviser 
should have discussed or considered the alternatives that were available in the 
marketplace.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Ps representative feels that the charges attached to the 
WealthMaster plan were too high, and that Mr and Mrs P would have been aware of this if 
they had been provided with details of a PEP which had far lower charges, greater tax 
efficiency and was far more flexible. It is not in dispute that another product, for example a 
Personal Equity Plan (PEP) may have had lower charges, but there was no requirement on 
the adviser to recommend a product with the lowest charges and as I have already 
explained, the adviser could only recommend products from the Abbey Life product range.
I am satisfied that the Key Features document and personal illustration, provided to Mr and 
Mrs P at the time they took out the WealthMaster plan in 1998, clearly set out the charges 
involved, in line with the regulatory requirements at that time. I cannot reasonably say that 
the adviser was required to do more.
Having carefully considered this matter, I dont think the advice Mr and Mrs P received in 
1998, to take out a WealthMaster plan was unsuitable based on the information recorded 
about their personal and financial circumstances at that time.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman