DRN-3762872
The complaint
Mr F complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as George Banco acted 
irresponsibly when it accepted him as guarantor for a loan.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in September 2022 that I summarise 
below.
Mr F entered into a guarantee and indemnity agreement in respect of a £7,500 loan that EDL 
provided to the borrower, a close family member, in September 2017. The loan was due to 
be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £282. The total amount to be repaid over the 
five-year loan term was around £16,922 including interest. From what I understand, the 
borrower had difficulties repaying the loan and Mr F was called to repay the loan, as 
guarantor.
Mr F thinks EDL didnt properly explain what he was agreeing to as guarantor, and that it 
didnt carry out sufficient checks at the time. Mr F says he couldnt afford to guarantee the 
loan and didnt realise that he would end up paying for it on the borrowers behalf.
I explained that my provisional decision was confined to looking at Mr Fs complaint about 
being accepted as a guarantor, and that I was not considering whether or not EDL did 
anything wrong when it lent to the borrower. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
EDL needed to do. EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't act 
irresponsibly when it accepted Mr F as guarantor for the loan  including obtaining his 
properly informed consent and carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that he was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower 
did not, as Mr F was equally liable with the borrower.
I explained that having listened to recordings of telephone conversations between EDL and 
Mr F at the time he agreed to become a loan guarantor, I thought Mr F had consented and 
had reasonably understood the potential consequences of guaranteeing the loan.
EDL asked Mr F for information about his income and expenditure. It carried out some credit 
checks and made an affordability calculation using ONS data. EDL thought Mr F was in a 
position to repay the loan if the borrower had been unable to do so.
Mr F was guaranteeing a costly loan, which was potentially repayable by him as guarantor 
every month for an extended period. Given this, I would have expected EDL to want to gain 
a thorough understanding of Mr Fs financial position - to ensure that he could sustainably 
repay the borrowers loan over the whole loan term if he was called to do so.
I reviewed the bank statements that Mr F supplied to this Service. I thought if EDL had 
carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, such as requesting bank statements, 
its likely that it would have realised that Mr F was having difficulty managing his finances. I 
set out in my provisional decision why I thought Mr Fs bank statements were showing 
evidence of the beginnings of financial distress.  
EDL was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably make the loan repayments, if 
called upon as loan guarantor  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Mr F potentially had to maintain the loan 
repayments as guarantor every month for five years  repaying in the region of £16, 922 in 
addition to his existing financial commitments. Overall, I thought EDL ought fairly to have 
realised that Mr F was most likely already finding it difficult to manage his financial position 
and that it was unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay a substantial new debt, if 
he was called to do so as guarantor, over the extended loan term. I thought in these 
circumstances, EDL should reasonably have concluded it was not appropriate to accept Mr 
F as loan guarantor.
I considered what Mr F told us about the impact that this matter had had on the borrower 
and he and his family and I am sorry for the difficulties he has experienced. But I hadnt seen 
enough information to say that I thought EDL treated Mr F unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.
But on balance, I didnt think EDL ought reasonably to have accepted Mr F as loan guarantor 
and I said I was intending to uphold the complaint.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Mr F says he has 
nothing to add and EDL has accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr F and EDL for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. I now confirm the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision and I uphold Mr Fs complaint that he should not have been accepted as 
a loan guarantor. EDL needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id expect that business  in so far 
as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer back in the position they would be in now 
if that wrong hadnt taken place. In this case, this means EDL putting Mr F in the position 
hed now be in if he hadnt unfairly and unreasonably been accepted as a guarantor on this 
loan.
EDL should put things right for Mr F by:
a) Releasing Mr F from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and then terminating it.
b) Refunding any payments made by Mr F as guarantor. EDL must add 8%* simple 
interest a year to each of those sums, from the date Mr F paid them to the date the 
refund is paid to him.
c) Removing any information about this loan from Mr Fs credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should give Mr 
F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as George Banco to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman