DRN-4239671
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W were booked to go on holiday in June 2022. Unfortunately, due to strike 
action, their outbound flight was cancelled. Mr and Mrs W say they tried to find other flights 
but were unable to do so. Therefore, they cancelled their trip. Their airline refunded the costs 
of both the outbound and return flights. But their accommodation provider said no refund 
was due. Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their policy for the cancellation costs they incurred.
Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Ws claim. It said the policy terms and conditions didnt 
cover the situation in which Mr and Mrs W had found themselves. And it referred to policy 
exclusions which it said would apply to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws claim. It did 
recognise that there had been delays in logging Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, so it offered 
them £50 compensation.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with Great Lakes decision. They didnt think the policy 
documentation made the terms and exclusions sufficiently clear. They asked us to look into 
their complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He 
didnt think the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws claim were covered by the cancellation 
section of the policy. He felt it might be open to Mr and Mrs W to make a travel delay claim if 
they could provide evidence to support it.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and Ive summarised their responses. Immediately after their flight 
had been cancelled, theyd tried to find an alternative flight, but had been unable to do so. 
They maintained that the policy documentation hadnt made the relevant exclusions clear 
enough and they referred to provisions of contract law. They felt the exclusion Great Lakes 
had relied on was significant and had been hidden in a lengthy policy document. They 
questioned whether our remit included checking whether insurers adhered to the law.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I think it was fair for Great 
Lakes to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the policy terms, relevant law and good industry practice, and the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Ws claim, to decide whether Great Lakes treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs W found themselves was completely 
outside of their control. However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers 
are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for 
a policy.  Therefore, Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs W are 
limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
Mr and Mrs W made a cancellation claim on their policy after their flight was cancelled. So I 
think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to consider their claim under Section 2  
Cancellation. This says that Great Lakes will pay a policyholders unused travel, 
accommodation and other listed costs, if their holiday has to be cancelled for one of the 
following specific events:
1. The death, Bodily Injury or Illness, as certified by a Medical Practitioner, of You, Your 
Relative, Colleague or travelling companion or of a friend with whom You had 
arranged to stay; or 
2.  Your attendance at a court of law as a witness (except as an expert witness) or for 
Jury Service where postponement of the Jury Service has been denied by the Clerk 
of the Courts Office; or 
3. You or Your travelling companion being a member of the Armed Forces, Police, 
Ambulance, Fire or Nursing Service and Your or their authorised leave being 
cancelled due to an unexpected emergency or a posting overseas at the time of Your 
trip; or 
4. You or Your travelling companion being instructed to stay at Home (within 7 days of 
Your departure date) by a relevant authority due to severe damage to Your or their 
Home or place of business in the United Kingdom caused by serious fire, explosion, 
storm, flood, subsidence or burglary; or 
5.  Your involuntary redundancy or that of Your travelling companion or Your spouse, 
civil partner or cohabiting partner, notified after the purchase of this Policy or after the 
trip was booked, whichever is later.
In my view, Great Lakes has clearly set out the listed, defined insured events it provides 
cover for under the cancellation section of the policy. Mr and Mrs Ws trip wasnt cancelled 
for any of the above reasons, so I dont think it was unfair for Great Lakes to conclude that 
their claim wasnt covered by this section of the contract. Great Lakes has also referred to an 
exclusion contained in section 2, which it considers applies to the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Ws claim. This says that Great Lakes doesnt cover:
Any claim as a result of the failure in provision of any service connected with Your trip 
including error, omission, financial failure, or default of, or by the provider of any service, 
travel agent, tour operator or organiser through whom the trip was booked.
It's clear that Mr and Mrs Ws trip had to be cancelled due to their airline cancelling their 
outbound flight. So I think it was fair for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr and Mrs Ws claim 
wouldve been caught by this exclusion clause in any event.
Mr and Mrs W feel strongly that the policy documentation isnt sufficiently clear. They 
consider that the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and other documentation 
ought to highlight the relevant cover and exclusions. Effectively, they consider that the 
exclusion Great Lakes has relied upon is buried in the policy terms. Ive thought about this 
carefully  taking into account contract law and statute.
An IPID is intended to provide an at-a-glance summary of the main features, benefits and 
exclusions of an insurance policy. It isnt intended to provide a comprehensive list of all of the contract terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs Ws IPID clearly states:
This Insurance Product Information Document is only intended to provide a summary of the 
main coverage and exclusions, and is not personalised to your specific individual needs in 
any way. Complete pre-contractual and contractual information on the product is provided in 
your policy documentation.
The IPID sets out the main cover headings and applicable policy limits, while a table sets out 
a list of the key exclusion clauses which apply to the policy. I find that Great Lakes drafted 
the IPID sufficiently clearly to show that it didnt include the full contract terms and 
exclusions. And that the IPID made it clear that exclusions could apply to claims.
An insurer should draw significant, onerous or unusual policy terms and conditions to a 
policyholders attention in the policy documentation. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W feel that the 
exclusion Ive set out above is significant and therefore ought to have been highlighted. But I 
dont agree. I dont think the exclusion is significant, unusual or onerous and in my 
experience, most, if not all, insurers include similar terms in their policies. This means I dont 
think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably by not including this exclusion in the IPID. 
Accordingly, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr 
and Mrs Ws claim wasnt covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
I appreciate the investigator referred to the abandonment cover provided under section 11  
Travel delay. Its open to Mr and Mrs W to make a claim under this section of the policy 
should they wish to do so. I would add though that while the policy covers abandonment due 
to strike action, it does require a policyholder to have been delayed at their international 
point of departure and to have been checked-in. By Mr and Mrs Ws account, their flight was 
delayed the day before they were due to fly. It will be for Great Lakes to consider any 
abandonment claim Mr and Mrs W may choose to make in line with the policy terms and it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a finding on whether such a claim would be 
successful.
Great Lakes acknowledged that thered been delays in logging Mr and Mrs Ws complaint 
and it offered £50 compensation. In my view, this is a fair and proportionate award. Its open 
to Mr and Mrs W to now contact Great Lakes to accept this offer should they wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman