DRN-2772920
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was inconvenienced as a result of the time it took Ald Automotive 
Limited (ALD) to arrange collection of the car he had under a hire agreement.  
What happened
In March 2017, Mr F entered into a hire agreement with ALD to acquire a new car. Mr F 
provided an advance payment of around £2,931, and the monthly payments were around 
£489 over a 35-month period. 
Mr F says that his car was due for collection on 30 March 2020, but it couldnt be collected 
due to a government imposed national lockdown as a result of Covid-19. And when he was 
corresponding with ALD he says he received contradictory advice on various occasions, 
which he says caused him huge worry. He says he spent a lot of time trying to rectify the 
situation by arranging duplicate car insurance and then cancelling it. Plus, he says he was 
inconvenienced as he spent a lot of time moving cars around at home to make room for the 
car while it was awaiting collection. Unhappy with this situation he raised a complaint with 
ALD.
On 27 April 2020, ALD wrote to Mr F. In this correspondence, they explained that 
Governments stance on business activity during the pandemic was that any non-essential 
work was not to be carried out, and therefore the collection of the car couldnt happen on 30 
March 2020. In this correspondence, ALD apologised to Mr F that he didnt receive an 
answer to his email dated 28 March 2020, in which he questioned whether he would be 
reimbursed for any extra insurance costs. ALD go on to acknowledge that Mr F received 
conflicting information regarding whether he needed to insure the car. They said that the 
email dated 15 April 2020 advised him that the car would be insured by them, but later the 
17 April 2020 email said he would be advised when ALD have insured the car. So, they 
apologised that he was not given clear answers to the concerns he had raised with them.
In 27 April 2020 correspondence, ALD confirmed that the car will be covered under their 
insurance while it remains in his possession, and once government guidelines are lifted, they 
will be in contact with him to arrange collection. They also explained that incorrectly 
receiving a late hire invoice must have contributed to the experience Mr F had with them. So, 
they explained that when a car is not collected on or before an end of a contract date, late 
hire charges are applicable and are automatically raised on the account. But as it was not Mr 
Fs fault that the car was not collected, these have now been removed from his account. 
Considering all the above ALD paid Mr F £100 compensation. 
Mr F says that ALD then arranged to collect the car on 9 July 2020. But ALD say they 
couldnt collect the car on that day. So, a day prior to the collection they say they emailed 
him at 16:44 PM and changed the date to 14 July 2020. Mr F says this caused him further 
inconvenience because again he had to rearrange his appointments and had to take a 
further half a days holiday.
As Mr F was unhappy with the compensation amount ALD paid to him, he brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, and asked ALD to pay a further 
£200 compensation. 
ALD disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure Mr F and ALD that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr F acquired the car under a regulated consumer hire agreement. Our service can look at 
these sorts of agreements. 
ALD say they dont agree that they should pay a total of £300 compensation to Mr F. They 
say that there is no evidence of any costs incurred for the storage, insurance cost and loss 
of earnings. They say the pandemic was a circumstance beyond their control and they were 
unable to collect the car due to government guidelines at the time. They say they agree that 
the customer service that Mr F received is not to the standard they would have expected, but 
they dont feel that it warrants an additional £200 compensation in addition to the £100 they 
already paid. 
I agree with ALD that the pandemic was a circumstance beyond their control, and they were 
unable to collect the car on 30 March 2020 due to government guidelines at the time. But 
Ive considered whether ALD acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr F during the time in 
question. 
Mr F was unhappy that he needed to store the car until it was collected by ALD. I understand 
that the car was stored in his garage at home, and he says this caused him considerable 
inconvenience as he spent a lot of time moving cars around at home to make room for the 
car while it was awaiting collection. Ive taken this into consideration, but Ive also taken into 
consideration that due to the Governments guidelines at the time, it was reasonable for ALD 
to ask Mr F to store the car safely until such time as they were able to collect it. 
However, Ive also taken into consideration that ALD caused a delay by changing the 
collection date from the 9 July 2020 to the 14 July 2020. I understand that a day prior to the 
9 July 2020 collection, ALD emailed him late in the day at 16:44 PM and changed the date of 
collection to 14 July 2020. Mr F says that the changing of the collection date caused him 
further inconvenience. He says he had to rearrange his work appointments again and had to 
take a further half a days holiday. So, Ive considered the inconvenience this has caused 
him, and I considered what impact ALD giving him conflicting information about the 
insurance had on him.Mr F says that he spent several days on contacting ALD and on arranging and then 
cancelling the insurance for the car. He has also told us that because he was given 
contradictory advice on various occasions by ALD this caused him huge worry, and he spent 
a lot of time trying to rectify the situation. I can understand how not knowing whether the car 
needed to be insured would cause Mr F a huge amount of distress, and how he was further 
inconvenienced when he had to deal with this matter. 
Mr F has not provided us with any specific evidence relating to his financial loss, but Ive 
considered the impact this situation had on him, and the distress and inconvenience that he 
was caused by everything that has happened. ALD apologised for the conflicting information 
and paid Mr F £100 compensation. But based on the circumstances of this complaint and on 
everything I mentioned above, I believe it is fair and reasonable for them to pay a further 
£200 compensation to reflect the impact of this situation.     
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Ald 
Automotive Limited have offered to pay Mr F £100 compensation, and I understand they 
already paid this to him, but if they have not already done so they should pay this directly to 
him. Also, Ald Automotive Limited should pay Mr F an additional £200 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman