DRN-2736144
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim for storm damage on 
their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H said a section of garden wall was damaged during strong winds. So they rang 
AXA to report the claim. After AXA arranged a surveyor to look at the wall they were told the 
damage had been caused by poor construction. So it wasnt an insured event. Mr and Mrs H 
didnt agree with the surveyor. The wall was about 30 years old and part of it had been 
dislodged during the high winds. Mr and Mrs H had seen it moving. So they want AXA to 
reconsider their claim for storm damage.
AXA said itd reviewed its surveyors report. And it believed the weather had highlighted a 
pre-existing issue with the wall. It wasnt the main cause of the damage. And gradual 
deterioration wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with AXAs response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the weather report for the period in 
question. And she was satisfied storm conditions had taken place at the time of the claim.
But our investigator felt AXA had applied the gradual deterioration/maintenance exclusion 
correctly. Although the weather conditions may have contributed to the damage, she didnt 
think it was the main cause. The surveyor had found evidence to show the bricks had 
displaced due to a lack of drainage holes. And the storm had highlighted the damage. So 
she wouldnt be asking AXA to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. Theyd arranged for a bricklaying firm to view their wall. The 
builder said the pillar had become unsecured as a result of the high winds. So theyve asked 
for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the problems Mr and Mrs H have been through. Theyre sure the 
boundary wall was damaged by strong winds rather than poor design. And theyve spoke to 
a bricklayer who had the same opinion. So Ive looked carefully at everything Mr and Mrs H 
and AXA have said to see if AXA has acted fairly in declining the claim.
The first thing I look at in this type of complaint is whether or not there was a storm at the 
relevant time. This is important because if there was no storm there cant have been any 
storm damage. 
At the time the damage occurred the weather reports show strong winds of the level we 
would normally consider to be approaching storm conditions. 
The second question I look at if Im satisfied theres been a storm is whether the damage to 
Mr and Mrs Hs property is consistent with what Id expect a storm to cause. On this 
occasion part of the brick wall was dislodged. So Im satisfied the damage to the wall is 
consistent with the sort of damage a storm might cause.
So I will now consider the third question of whether the storm conditions were the main 
cause of the damage. This third question can be the most contentious  as is the case here. 
Insurers often appoint a surveyor with experience in this sort of work to inspect the damage. 
And thats what AXA did here. I think thats a reasonable thing to do  and I also think its 
reasonable for AXA to rely on their report when deciding whether or not to meet the claim.
The surveyor found a crack in the wall reaching to the ground. And they felt a lack of 
drainage holes wouldve created a pressure build-up over time behind the wall. The surveyor 
thought the storm had highlighted the declining condition of the wall  which was around 30 
years old. But they didnt feel the damage was consistent with the sort of damage that would 
be caused by a one-off storm event.
Ive read all of the points raised by Mr and Mrs H. And Ive looked again at the surveyors 
findings. Based on what Ive seen I cant say it was unreasonable for AXA to say there were 
existing issues with the wall. And I cant say it acted unfairly when it applied the exclusion 
clause for gradual deterioration/maintenance. Mr and Mrs Hs home insurance policy says 
damaged caused by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, 
mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use, maintenance and 
upkeep of your buildings and its contents is excluded from cover.
AXA was entitled to rely on its surveyors opinion when declining the claim. And I dont think 
it was unreasonable for it to do so. I havent disregarded the view of Mr and Mrs Hs builder. 
And I recognise his experience. But I dont think its thrown sufficient doubt on the surveyors 
conclusion to make me think that AXA should change its position. 
The high winds may have contributed to the problem. Mr and Mrs H said theyd seen parts of 
the wall moving during the storm. But I think AXA has shown its more likely than not that 
there were existing problems with the wall and that the storm wasnt the main cause of the 
damage.
I realise Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed with this outcome. But Im not persuaded AXA 
made a mistake in deciding the damage was the result of a gradual cause. Thats not 
something thats covered under the terms and conditions of their home insurance policy. So I 
cant ask AXA to approve the claim. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman