DRN-4001833
The complaint
Miss B complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) wrongly 
informed her about a payment plan and didnt clear arrears from her credit file as agreed. 
She would like her credit file amending and more compensation than Virgin has offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Virgin accepts it didnt advise Miss B of the  implications on her credit file of taking 
out a short-term forbearance plan (STFP), and that had it done so Miss B might not 
have chosen to take out the plan. It agreed to remove reference to this plan on Miss 
Bs credit file. It also incorrectly advised her of payment dates, didnt return phone 
calls and didnt respond to her complaint within the 8 weeks it had to do so. 
Acknowledging the stress and inconvenience these issues caused  Virgin said it 
would write off the balance of £587.41 on Miss Bs account and pay £350 
compensation. Given the issues Miss B experienced I think it was reasonable for 
Virgin to compensate her.
I appreciate Miss B doesnt feel the level of compensation is sufficient particularly as 
she has evidenced that the reference to the STFP is still showing on her credit file. 
Miss B  has also told us this information has impacted on her ability to get a 
mortgage although she hasnt evidenced this or any subsequent financial loss as a 
result. I think the total compensation Virgin has offered  writing off her outstanding 
balance and compensation for the distress and inconvenience totalling £937.41 is 
sufficient  it is in line, if not more, than we might have awarded.
In terms of the credit file information Virgin has told us it agreed to remove the STFP 
but not the arrears markers. It has evidenced to us that it asked the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs) in March 2022 to remove the STFP of May 2021. If this is still 
showing on Miss Bs credit file that might be down to how CRAs choose to display 
information provided over which Virgin has no control. If so, Miss B will need to take 
that up with the relevant CRAs
However, the note Virgin sent to the CRAs makes no reference to removing missed 
payment markers. Whilst Virgin has told us it didnt agree to remove these I dont 
think that is fair to Miss B. Leaving that information on her credit file indicates she 
was in a payment plan. Given it accepts Miss B might not have taken out the plan if it 
had explained the credit file implication to her I think its only fair and logical it 
removes all, not part, of the information in relation to this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money should:-
Write off the outstanding balance of Miss Bs loan (£587.41) if it has not already done 
so.
Pay Miss B £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience if it has not already 
done so.
Remove any reference to the STFP including arrangement to pay and missed 
payment markers on Miss Bs credit file in relation to the STFP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman