DRN-3729998
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the way AWP P&C SA dealt with a claim they made under 
their home emergency insurance policy.
Mrs F has primarily dealt with things, so Ill refer to her only for simplicity.
Reference to AWP includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs F got in touch with AWP after she noticed a warning light on her boiler.
It sent an engineer, who increased the pressure and restarted the boiler.
The warning light returned, so Mrs F got back in touch with AWP. After a delay and 
missed appointment, an engineer restarted the boiler again. But it stopped soon 
after. The engineer agreed to send a quote to AWP for further work. It was accepted.
After another delay and missed appointment, an engineer attended to install a new 
part. They did so, it failed immediately, and water leaked into the boiler. I understand 
the water damaged the electrics and the engineer said the boiler was beyond 
economic repair (BER).
AWP offered Mrs F £500 toward the cost of a replacement boiler. She paid a 
contractor £2,850 to have the boiler replaced. She complained about the way the 
claim had been handled and the offer AWP had made.
AWP accepted its service had been poor and offered Mrs F £200 compensation. It 
didnt offer anything further for the boiler.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said the engineer had 
caused the boiler to become BER, so it would be fair for AWP to pay in full to replace 
it. And he thought the compensation should be increased to £350 in total.
Mrs F agreed. AWP didnt. It said the part had failed through no fault of the engineer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute the boiler became BER. The policy provides cover for up to £500 
toward a replacing a boiler BER. AWP has offered that, so Im satisfied its fulfilled 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
The crux of this complaint is about whether AWP should pay the remaining £2,350 
Mrs F paid to replace the boiler. Theres no cover under the policy for that. But if 
AWP caused an otherwise repairable boiler to need replacing, I may find it fair for 
AWP to compensate Mrs F for the additional cost involved.
Mrs F has shown she had the boiler serviced around a year prior to the claim. No 
faults or problems were identified.
The notes from the first and second engineer visits didnt identify any faults. On both 
occasions they took steps to repressurise the boiler without carrying out any work. 
After the problem reoccurred for the third time, they recommended replacing a part. 
The notes contain no suggestion the boiler was or may become BER.
AWP hasnt provided any comments or notes directly from the engineer about the 
third visit. AWPs own notes say the engineer installed the part and it subsequently 
failed and leaked a massive amount of water. The final response letter said the part 
failing was a consequential result of the previous part being fitted. This shows the 
replacing of the part led directly to the water leak and subsequent damage.
After our investigator upheld the complaint, AWP said the part had failed through no 
fault of the engineer. It provided no supporting evidence or further comment to 
explain how it had reached this opinion.
Mrs F has provided detailed notes of her claim experience. She recalls the engineer 
expressing concern about replacing the part in the way theyd been instructed to.
Overall, the evidence shows the boiler wasnt thought to be BER until after the failed 
repair and water leak. Before then, it had passed a service and the engineers thought 
it could be repaired by replacing a part. So Im persuaded the boiler became BER as 
a result of the work carried out by AWP.
This may have been the fault of the engineer who carried out the work, an 
inappropriate repair recommendation or something else. AWP hasnt set out what it 
thinks the underlying cause was. But I dont think I need to make a finding on this. 
The key point is that the boiler wasnt considered at risk of becoming BER. The 
evidence shows it was repairable. As a result of the way AWP handled things it 
became BER and a repairable boiler had to be replaced.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied it would be fair for AWP to ensure Mrs F doesnt 
lose out as a result of having to replace the boiler. That means it should pay £2,850.
In line with our usual approach, AWP should also pay interest for the time Mrs F has 
been without the money.
AWP accepts its service was poor. It didnt challenge our investigators suggestion to 
increase compensation to a total of £350. Mrs F accepted it. So Im not sure this 
point is in dispute. But for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied £350 is a reasonable 
figure in the circumstances. Theres clearly been delays and missed appointments, 
which would have caused inconvenience. Having to replace the boiler unnecessarily 
would have added to that. This all happened in colder months of the year, when the 
impact of going without hot water and heating unnecessarily would have been worse.
Mrs F has said the failed repair to the boiler also caused a problem with her kitchen 
lights and she would ask an electrician to put that right. If shes paid to have that done, and the work can be linked directly to the failed repair, she can send evidence 
to AWP. I would expect it to consider whether it should also pay this cost.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to:
Pay a total of £2,850 for the cost of replacing the boiler. If £500 has already been 
paid, that can be deducted from this figure.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on this figure, from the date Mrs F made 
payments for the boiler until the date AWP makes the payment.
Pay a total of £350 compensation. If £200 has already been paid, that can be 
deducted from this figure.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman