DRN-3544258
The complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation claim he
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
On 25 June 2020, Mr W booked a trip abroad to a country Ill call F. He was due to travel
between 22 and 30 August 2020.
However, due to Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advice against all
but essential travel to F, the trip had to be cancelled. So Mr W made a claim for the costs
associated with the cancellation.
UKI turned down Mr Ws claim. It said that when Mr W had booked the trip, there had
already been FCDO advice in place against all but essential travel abroad. And it considered
that the trip cancellation couldve been an anticipated event  which was specifically
excluded by the policy terms.
However, UKI acknowledged that it shouldve turned down the claim when it was first made,
as it had had enough information at that point to do so. Instead, it had asked Mr W for
information it didnt need and had delayed giving him an answer. So it paid him £200
compensation.
Mr W was unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. In
particular, he referred to guidance issued by the industry regulator (the Financial Conduct
Authority  FCA) on 19 March 2020, which stated that it expected travel insurers to clearly
communicate policy exclusions relating to Covid-19 which might impact cover. UKI hadnt
sent Mr W such a communication setting out Covid-19 cover until after the trip had been
booked. Mr W said that if itd sent him this communication ahead of the holiday booking, he
wouldnt have gone ahead with arranging the trip.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that UKI
hadnt sent communications relating to its Covid-19 cover until August 2020. However, he
didnt think this made a difference to the outcome of Mr Ws claim. He noted that the
cancellation section of the policy covered changes in FCDO advice if such advice hadnt
been in place at the time the trip was booked. He felt this term was clear. And as Mr W had
booked the trip while FCDO advice against travel was in place, he felt it had been fair for UKI
to conclude that the claim wasnt covered.
The investigator also thought that given the evolving situation surrounding Covid-19 and
given the advice that was in place at the time of booking, it wouldve been reasonable for Mr
W to check the policy or get in touch with UKI before arranging his trip.
Mr W disagreed.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 May 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it had been fair for UKI to turn down Mr Ws claim. I said:
First, Id like to reassure Mr W that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint
and his detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. In making
my decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do our rules
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Ws policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether UKI treated
him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy, as these form the basis of his
contract with UKI. I appreciate that when Mr W opened his packaged account, the
circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen by either
policyholders or insurers.
But no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what
level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, UKIs
obligations under its contract with Mr W are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions
which are set out in the policy. Mr W didnt take out an all-risks policy. This means that UKI
has set out the specific, listed insured events its chosen to cover if a policyholder has to
cancel their holiday.
One of the listed events UKI covers in the event of cancellation is:
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against "All Travel or "All but essential
travel to your intended destination, providing the advice came into force after you
opened your Black account or booked your trip (whichever was the later) and was in the
28 days before your departure on your trip. (Emphasis added.)
I think the policy makes it clear that UKI will cover cancellation due to the FCDO advising
against all but essential travel to a policyholders destination, so long as that advice wasnt in
place at the point a holiday was booked. This isnt an uncommon term  most travel
insurance policies which provide cover for cancellation in the event of a change to FCDO
advice will only do so if the advice wasnt in force at the time a trip was booked.
Theres no dispute that Mr W cancelled his trip because the FCDO had advised against
travel to F due to Covid-19. However, I need to bear in mind the relevant timeline of events.
On 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel abroad as a result of
Covid-19. This advice was still in place when Mr W booked his trip to F on 25 June 2020. It
was briefly lifted on 4 July 2020, before the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to
F again around a week before Mr W was due to travel. Whats clear then is that when Mr W
booked the trip, there was FCDO advice against all but essential travel abroad  including to
F. His policy doesnt cover cancellation in this scenario. And its for this reason that I think it
was fair for UKI to conclude that the claim isnt covered by the cancellation section of the
policy.
UKI has also set out a specific list of events it doesnt cover under the cancellation section of
the policy. One of these is: anticipated events. UKI has defined what it means by an
anticipated event. The policy says:
Anticipated event - any event or occurrence which you or your immediate family knew would
occur or could reasonably have expected to occur during your trip and which you or yourimmediate family were aware of at the time you became an insured person or the date when
you booked your trip, whichever is later.
The purpose of travel insurance is to protect policyholders against the risk of unforeseen
events. No travel insurance policy available on the market covers events a policyholder
knows will happen or which could reasonably be foreseen at the time the policy is taken out
or a trip is booked. And most, if not all, travel policies will contain broadly similar exclusions.
So I dont think the anticipated events exclusion is unusual or so onerous that UKI
specifically needed to draw it to Mr Ws attention.
In this case, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic on 11
March 2020. And as Ive set out above, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel on
17 March 2020. On 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed widespread restrictions on
movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. While some lockdown provisions had been
lifted when Mr W booked the trip, the FCDO advice was still in place and had been in place
for over three months. The worldwide disruption on travel and movement caused by Covid-
19 was widely reported on and known about by the time Mr W booked the trip. And
therefore, I think it shouldve been reasonably foreseeable to Mr W when he booked his trip
that there was a chance that FCDO advice against travel to F would still be in place. And
therefore, I think it ought to have been reasonably foreseeable that he might need to cancel
his trip and make a claim.
The FCA guidance
The FCA issued guidance to insurers on 19 March 2020, which set out its expectations of
firms in response to Covid-19. I acknowledge that UKI didnt set out its specific Covid-19
cover until August 2020, which post-dated the holiday booking. But in my view, the policy
terms were already sufficiently clear to set out the cancellation cover UKI provided in the
event of the FCDO advising against travel. And the exclusion its relied upon isnt specific to
Covid-19  it refers to any event a policyholder might anticipate could lead to a claim.
Id add that given the ever-changing situation in relation to Covid-19 and the FCDO advice
which was in place, I do think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr W to check his policy terms
before booking the holiday. Or it was open to him to contact UKI ahead of booking the
holiday to check whether or not any cancellation would be covered.
It mightve been helpful if UKI had set out its Covid-19 cover sooner. But the relevant
cancellation term was already available to Mr W and clearly set out in the contract. So in
these circumstances, I think Mr W had enough information available about the level of
cancellation cover in order to check whether any claim would be covered ahead of booking
the trip.
So I dont currently find that any delay in UKI setting out its specific Covid-19 cover
prejudiced Mr Ws position in any way, because Im satisfied the relevant information was
already available to him to check when he booked his trip.
UKIs customer service
UKI accepts it didnt handle Mr Ws claim as well as it shouldve done. It acknowledges that it
had enough information upfront to decline the claim. Instead, it asked Mr W for further
information and it delayed in providing an outcome to his claim. Its paid Mr W £200
compensation to recognise the impact this had on him.
It's clear Mr W was put to time and effort in sending unnecessary claims evidence and then
there was a delay in reporting the claim outcome to him. I dont doubt this caused Mr W
some frustration and upset. And in my view, £200 is fair compensation to reflect the likelytrouble and inconvenience UKIs handling of the claim caused Mr W.
Summary
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Ws position, I dont currently think UKI treated him
unfairly when it turned down his claim. So Im not planning to direct it to do anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr W didnt accept my provisional findings and Ive summarised his response. He felt the 
decision was appalling. In particular, he was unhappy that Id said that it mightve been 
helpful if UKI had issued Covid-19 guidance sooner  thereby agreeing with his points 
regarding the FCA guidance  and yet had ruled against him. He queried how this mightve 
been helpful and felt that the only possible answer is that he couldve made his holiday 
booking in full possession of the facts. He maintained that this supported his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, I still think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I do think it mightve been helpful had UKI provided 
specific information relating to Covid-19 cover sooner than it did. Thats because this 
wouldve detailed exactly what cover UKI was prepared to offer specifically in relation to 
Covid-19. 
However, I also explained why I thought the fact such information hadnt been sent until 
August 2020 hadnt prejudiced Mr Ws position. Thats because the relevant contract term 
setting out the circumstances in which cancellation claims due to a change in FCDO advice 
would be covered was already clearly set out in the policy. These terms had been available 
to Mr W at the time he booked the trip. So I still think that Mr W had enough clear policy 
information available to him to check whether any potential claim was likely to be covered 
before he booked the holiday.  And this means I still dont find that any delay in UKI sending 
Covid-19 specific guidance prejudiced Mr Ws position. 
Id add too, that as I set out above, there had been well-publicised disruption; impact on 
travel and movement and ongoing FCDO advice against travel as a result of Covid-19, at the 
time Mr W booked the trip. I do still think it shouldve been reasonably foreseeable to him 
then at the time of booking that FCDO advice against travel to F could still be in place at the 
time he booked the trip. And Im still persuaded that therefore, Mr W ought reasonably to 
have been aware of a reason he might need to cancel the trip at the point he booked it. As I 
explained, no travel insurance policy on the market covers events a policyholder knows will 
happen or which may reasonably be foreseen either when a trip is booked or a policy is 
taken out. UKI has specifically excluded claims which are caused by anticipated events.
Overall then, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ws position, as I appreciate hes been 
left out of pocket, I find that it was fair and reasonable for UKI to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman