DRN-3208535
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) declined her claim for a refund of 79 
transactions on her credit card that she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
Mrs D disputes 79 contactless payments that were made on her credit card between 
January and April 2020. She says she had her card on her all the time and didnt notice it 
going missing at any time, and that six of the transactions she disputes took place on the 
same day as some genuine transactions she did make. She also said she was at work at the 
times of some of the transactions, in a different location to where the transactions were 
made.
Lloyds rejected her claim and issued its final response letter on 11 May 2020. It said she had 
confirmed she had the card in her possession and that the transactions were made using the 
card.
Mrs D rejected Lloyds outcome and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked at Mrs Ds complaint, but didnt uphold it. She said she couldnt see a point at which 
Mrs Ds card had been compromised and that, if the transactions had been made by a 
fraudster, the card would have had to have been taken and returned to Mrs D 79 times over 
the course of three months, which she found unlikely.
She said the pattern of spending didnt match what she would expect to see from a 
fraudster, and that Mrs D hadnt produced sufficient evidence to demonstrate she was in a 
different location to the transactions, as Mrs D had claimed.
Mrs D remained unhappy, so she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In simple terms, if Im to uphold this complaint, Id need to be persuaded that Mrs D didnt 
authorise the transactions herself. That is to say that she didnt make the transactions 
herself, or give someone permission to make the transactions. Having reviewed all of the 
evidence both parties have provided me, Im not persuaded Mrs D didnt authorise the 
transactions herself. Ill explain why.
Because the transactions in dispute were made using the physical card, its important to 
establish what happened to the card at the relevant time. Mrs D told our service that she had 
her card in her possession throughout the time the disputed transactions took place. She 
says she keeps her card in her purse, in a handbag which is also always in her possession. 
She also said that she used her card to make genuine transactions around the same time as 
the disputed transactions, including six on the same day as some of the disputed 
transactions.
With that being the case, if Im to say Mrs D didnt authorise the transactions, I would be 
accepting that Mrs Ds card was taken and replaced without her noticing on anything up to 
79 occasions. While I accept thats possible, I have to base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is to say what I think more likely than not happened.
Having reviewed the evidence, there doesnt seem to be any obvious point at which Mrs Ds 
card could have been taken in order to make the transactions in question. Mrs D has 
provided a mileage claim that she says demonstrates she wasnt in the location of the 
disputed contactless payments, but Im afraid I dont agree that the claim details prove her 
whereabouts. All it shows is that Mrs D was paid business mileage on some of the dates in 
question. And, while that could mean Mrs D had travelled to a destination away from where 
the payments were made, it could equally mean she travelled to the destination the 
payments were made. So it doesnt help prove Mrs Ds case.
I also agree with our investigator that this would be a very unusual fraud pattern, if the 
transactions werent made by Mrs D. Based on Mrs Ds version of events, the fraudster 
would have had to remove her card from her purse, in her handbag, travel to the destination 
of the payments, several miles away, then return the card to Mrs Ds purse. All without Mrs D 
noticing, and on up to 79 occasions. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I cant reasonably uphold this complaint. And I find it 
more likely than not that Mrs D authorised the payments herself.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman