DRN-2725661
The complaint
Mr H says that a car supplied by Close Brothers Limited under a conditional sale agreement 
was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr H bought a car under a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers. The
car cost just under £7,000, had been first registered in December 2013 and had covered
around 67,000 miles.
In July 2019 Mr H returned the car to the dealership because of a coolant leak in the engine.
The dealership said that a pipe needed replacing.
Theres a dispute about what exactly happened next. The dealership says that, because the 
leak would cause the engine to overheat, Mr H should not drive the car; it ordered a 
replacement pipe and told him not to drive the car. It would fix it the following day. It says 
however that Mr H refused to leave the car with the dealership. Mr H says that he was told it 
was safe to drive the car and so he took it away. The dealership fixed the leak with tape.
The following day Mr H returned to the dealership to say that the engine had failed.
The dealership replaced the engine with a reconditioned one. Mr H contributed to the cost,
as did the dealership.
A few months later Mr H complained that coolant was leaking into the drivers footwell. He
said that this was because the engine repair had not been carried out correctly and that he
wanted to reject the car.
Our investigators broadly accepted what Mr H had said. The initial problems had arisen soon
after Mr H had taken delivery of the car and had not been repaired in a satisfactory manner.
In the circumstances, he should be allowed to return the car and have any payments made
under the conditional sale agreement refunded.
Close Brothers did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case. I did that and, 
because I was minded to reach a different conclusion, issued a provisional decision. 
I noted that the initial problem with the car had been the result of a coolant leak. The 
dealership said it was prepared to replace the damaged pipe that was the cause of the leak 
at no cost to Mr H. It ordered a replacement at a cost of £40. I thought it more likely than not 
that Mr H had been advised against driving the car, but that he had nevertheless done so  
causing major damage which meant the engine needed replacing. 
I noted that, in a subsequent email exchange, Mr H had agreed to contribute £1,100 towards 
the cost of a replacement engine, an arrangement he had described as good news. In my 
view, that showed that Mr H had agreed to a resolution of the problem with the engine and 
that he accepted that the damage had been caused by an error on his part. 
The second leak was, I thought, unconnected to the first. Again, it was a minor issue of the 
type which was to be expected in a car of this age and was fixed at no cost to Mr H. 
Neither of the faults involving leaking seals or pipes meant the car was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale. The more significant damage was caused when Mr H had driven 
the car before the coolant leak had been fixed. That was not the fault of Close Brothers and 
so I concluded, provisionally, that I was unable to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
In response, Mr H accepted that replacing the coolant pipe was a minor issue which the 
dealership had offered to fix for free. He says he was not told that he should not drive the 
car.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There remains a dispute about what Mr H was told by the dealership about driving the car 
before the coolant leak was fixed. He also says that the replacement engine has now failed 
an emissions test and that he was not given any paperwork in connection with it. He is still 
paying for the finance agreement, even though he cant use the car.
I sympathise with Mr H, but Close Brothers duty was to supply a car that was of satisfactory 
quality. I am satisfied it did that. The subsequent problems were the result of Mr H driving 
the car before a minor repair was carried out. Whether he did that because the dealership 
did not warn him not to or despite its warnings, I cannot properly hold Close Brothers 
responsible. 
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I do not require Close Brothers Limited to do anything further to resolve Mr Hs 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman