DRN-2931751
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs T. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2009. The policy was sold to 
Mrs T when she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Barclays has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
This is because I think the information Barclays gave Mrs T about the costs and benefits of 
the PPI, during the online application process, wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Mrs T has said that the sickness benefits she had from her employment were better than the 
cover offered by the PPI  and I think shes probably right. Shes provided information about 
the insurance cover that her employer currently provides after the first six months of cover to 
top up wages  which is 75% of salary.  I think, given the type of firm it is, a similar kind of 
cover is likely to have been offered back in 2009. I think its likely the insurance cover would 
have been paid on top of reduced sick pay. And even if employer sick pay stopped after six 
months, the evidence is that the scheme was not time-limited, and so would have provided 
employees with reasonable financial security long term. Mrs T is unlikely to have faced 
significant difficulty in covering her outgoings, including her credit card bill. 
Given this level of cover, I think its unlikely Mrs T would have taken the PPI if shed 
understood the costs, and the limitations on benefits.  
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put Mrs T in the financial position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI.
A. Barclays Bank UK PLC should find out how much Mrs T would have owed when she 
closed her credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should then refund the difference between what Mrs T owed 
when she closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays Bank UK PLC can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. Barclays Bank UK PLC should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Mrs T would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Barclays Bank UK PLC works out what Mrs T would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mrs T paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs T paid. And it should carry on 
paying interest until the point when Mrs T wouldve owed Barclays Bank UK PLC 
something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. Barclays Bank UK PLC should tell Mrs T what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this 
interest. Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs T the redress as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021. 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman