DRN-2940430
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that an appointed representative of First Complete Ltd didnt tell them 
their re-mortgage wouldnt complete in time to avoid going onto their lenders standard 
variable rate (SVR). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J say First Complete approached them about re-mortgaging. It made an 
application to a lender on their behalf to re-mortgage and take out additional borrowing for a 
buy to let property. Mr and Mrs J say their only requirement was that the re-mortgage 
completed on 31 March 2021, when their product ended, to avoid paying interest at their 
lenders SVR. 
Mr and Mrs J say it wasnt until 31 March that they realised the mortgage wouldnt complete 
in time. They decided to stay with their lender and take out a new product. However, this 
wasnt in effect until 10 April 2021. Mr and Mrs J say this caused financial loss and 
considerable worry which could have been avoided if First Complete had been honest and 
clear about when the re-mortgage might complete. 
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs J reduced the amount they wanted to borrow in late March 
when they decided not to go ahead with the purchase of an investment property. The lender 
asked for up to date income evidence, and different mortgage products became available. 
The investigator said at this point it was clear that the re-mortgage wouldnt complete on 31 
March and First Complete should have told Mr and Mrs J this. However, their lender 
backdated their new product to 1 April 2021 and so they werent out of pocket.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. Mrs J said they couldnt afford to pay interest at the SVR. She 
said if theyd continued with the application and the re-mortgage had taken another month 
theyd have been in difficulty. Mrs J said their complaint is that First Complete didnt keep 
them informed about whether the re-mortgage would complete on 31 March 2021.
Mrs J said they have financial loss of about £1,750 because their current fixed interest rate 
product is less beneficial. And were worried about what their mortgage would cost while on 
their lenders SVR.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs Js product was due to expire on 31 March 2021. They wanted to re-mortgage 
and take out additional borrowing on that date, to avoid paying interest at their lenders SVR. 
The additional borrowing was for the purchase of an investment property.
First Complete made an application on Mr and Mrs Js behalf. The lender wanted information 
about the investment property before making a mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs J were unable to 
find a suitable property and decided to reduce the amount theyd applied to borrow. First 
Complete sent an amended application to the lender on 25 March 2021. On 31 March the 
lender asked for up to date information. Mr and Mrs J say this is when they realised the re-
mortgage wouldnt happen that day.
Mr and Mrs J ask that First Complete pays compensation for financial loss and their worry. In 
deciding whether this is fair and reasonable, Ive taken the following into account.
If Mr and Mrs J told First Complete they wanted to re-mortgage on 31 March 2021, I 
think its reasonable for it to aim for this. But, as Mr and Mrs J say they accept, theres no 
guarantee a mortgage will happen on a given date. First Complete has limited control 
over a process that involves several other parties. 
While Mrs J says First Complete should have told them a few weeks before that the re-
mortgage wouldnt complete on 31 March, I cant see how First Complete could have 
known this. It wouldnt have known that Mr and Mrs J would be unable to find an 
investment property. Or that theyd change their plans about buying an investment 
property in late March and ask to borrow less. 
Mr and Mrs J changed their application on 25 March 2021  only a few working days 
before 31 March 2021. No mortgage offer was issued by the lender that Mr and Mrs J 
applied to. I dont think its reasonable to expect a mortgage to complete when the lender 
hasnt made an offer to lend.
Mrs J says she was given misleading and incorrect information by First Complete during 
calls which were not recorded, including being assured the week before that the 
mortgage would complete by 31 March. I appreciate Mrs Js frustration that theres no 
call recordings or other evidence to support what she says. But based on the available 
evidence, I dont think I can fairly find that First Complete misled Mr and Mrs J.  
If First Complete had told Mr and Mrs J on 25 March that it was unlikely the re-mortgage 
would complete by 31 March, theyd have had a few days to talk to their lender about a 
new product, or decide whether to continue with the application to re-mortgage. But, 
given the short amount of time since the amended application and the absence of a 
mortgage offer, I dont think First Complete would reasonably have known that Mr and 
Mrs J still expected the re-mortgage to complete on 31 March 2021. 
Lenders usually write to customers before a product expires to remind them of this and 
tell them what their new monthly payment will be. If Mr and Mrs J didnt receive this 
information, First Complete wouldnt have known this. I dont think First Complete would 
reasonably have known that Mr and Mrs J were worried about not knowing what their 
next monthly payment would be. 
Mr and Mrs Js lender backdated their product switch to 1 April 2021. So they didnt pay 
interest at its SVR. 
Mr and Mrs J might have been able to secure a better interest rate by re-mortgaging. But 
they chose to stay with their lender and take out an interest rate product from its range. I 
understand they wanted to avoid being on their lenders SVR, and didnt know when the 
re-mortgage would complete. But ultimately this was a decision for Mr and Mrs J to make. I dont think its fair to say that First Complete is responsible for them deciding to 
stay with their lender, or that it should compensate them for doing so.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs J feel strongly about this matter and that they will be 
disappointed with my decision. But based on the available evidence I dont think First 
Complete made an error or treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly such that it would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require it to pay compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman