DRN-2034178
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging 
her a fee for a mis-sold payday loan claim that she said she didnt authorise them to make. 
She said shed made claims herself with her lenders.
What happened
In November 2019, Ms H was told her mis-sold payday loan claim was successful by one of 
her lenders, Ill call S. And they offered her compensation for the successful claim. A few 
days later Ms H said FTR asked her to pay their fee for the successful claim. Ms H 
complained to FTR as she said she hadnt authorised them to work for her and didnt think 
she should have to pay their fee.
FTR said Ms H had agreed in September 2019 to use their services. And had signed a letter 
of authority (LoA) authorising them to act on her behalf to pursue mis-sold payday loans for 
a number of her lenders. FTR said Ms H had also completed an on-line lender 
questionnaire. A couple of her lenders didnt accept on line applications and further 
documents were sent to Ms H to complete. As she didnt return these, the claims with these 
lenders were closed. But FTR said theyd submitted her claim to lender S, who accepted 
the electronic documents. And theyd agreed Ms H had been mis-sold her payday loan. FTR 
said as the claim was successful and their agreement with Ms H hadnt been cancelled, their 
success fee was justified.
Ms H wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said FTRs could charge their fee as they had submitted Ms Hs claim. And 
the claim was successful. Ms H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Ms Hs frustration as she doesnt think she authorised FTR to act on her 
behalf. And hadnt returned documents they asked for. But in making my decision I need to 
determine whether Ms H had authorised FTR to act on her behalf. And if she had, whether 
she let them know she no longer wanted them to work for her. 
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold payday loans in September 
2019. The personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Ms H has 
given this service. So, on balance I think  Ms H completed the on-line form. FTR has said to 
pursue a claim lender details were needed. And these were supplied, this included several 
payday loan lenders, one of which was lender S  again personal information that I think on 
balance shows Ms H completed the application. On completing the application, a LoA was 
generated, populated with the above information. And this could only be submitted with a 
signature. FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Ms 
H had agreed to them. 
FTR has said that their terms and conditions show that their fee is justified. So, Ive looked at
these. FTRs terms and conditions say:
FTR will pursue a claim for mis-sold payday loans against the lender on behalf of you for all
financial products. FTR will also provide updates on the progress of the claim, which will be
undertaken on a 'No Win No Fee' contingency basis. 
The agreement Ms H had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
FTRs terms and conditions go on to say:
We will not process your claim(s) until we receive your instructions. You can
provide your instruction by completing the lender questionnaire over the phone,
online or returning this letter of authority.
I can see that Ms H completed both the LoA and the lender questionnaire in September 
2019. And on the same day, FTR sent an email  to Ms H confirming theyd received this and 
would begin working on her letter of complaint. In October 2019, FTR submitted Ms Hs letter 
of complaint to lender S.  So, Im satisfied that FTR was authorised to act on Ms Hs behalf.
So Ive now looked to see if Ms H told FTR she no longer wanted them to work for her.
FTRs terms and conditions say: 
Once you have provided your instructions to FTR and the claims process has
begun you may terminate this agreement with FTR verbally or in writing. No
cancellation fee will be charged if you decide to terminate this agreement prior
to the claim being successful. Your claim is deemed successful if we send a Letter
of Complaint and you go on to receive an offer from the lender which you accept.
Upon signing this agreement, you will have 14 days to cancel the agreement
without any consequence or charge. This process is known as cooling off, and
where FTR are instructed to do so, they will acknowledge that the agreement has
been terminated in writing.
I havent seen any evidence that Ms H asked FTR to cancel her agreement. Ms H says she 
made the claims herself. And that she didnt think shed authorised FTR to act on her behalf 
as she hadnt responded to their requests for further information. The claim may not have 
been formalised according to Ms H, but its not enough that she simply disengaged from the 
process. And by not telling FTR she didnt want them to act on her behalf theyd submitted 
her claim to her lender. And the claim was successful.
And in November 2019, lender S on telling Ms H her claim was successful also copied FTR 
into the notification, which Ms H could see. And I think shows lender S still saw FTR as 
Ms Hs representative for the claim. So, I dont think Ms H had cancelled her agreement with 
FTR. And the claim they submitted for her was successful, so I think they can charge their 
fee.
FTRs fees were charged in line with what Ms H agreed to:FTR will charge a contingency fee representing no more than 36% inc. VAT in respect of 
any redress/compensation/goodwill payment recovered on your behalf 
And I can also see that they gave monetary examples of how much redress Ms H would 
receive. 
Ms H could have cancelled her claim with FTR. But I cant see she cancelled the claim 
before it was successful. And I dont think it was enough by Ms H no longer engaging with 
FTR to consider this as her cancelling her agreement with them. So, Im satisfied that FTR 
was authorised to act on Ms Hs behalf and her claim was  successful. This means FTR can 
charge their fees for these claims. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman