DRN-4343369
The complaint
Dr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, kept their personal data on its 
computer system when that data should have been deleted.
What happened
Dr L says they had registered for online banking with Halifax. In 2010, they closed their 
Halifax accounts. They thought their data would have been deleted from Halifaxs online 
banking facility at that time. They were not notified that any data was to be retained by 
Halifax.
In 2022, Dr L applied for a new Halifax credit card. They said they couldnt register for online 
banking because they were still registered from the last time they had a Halifax account.
Dr L says that Halifax should not have retained their data in a live system if they didnt have 
an account. They were able to reactivate online banking. But they believe their data had 
been at risk for over ten years.
Dr L says Halifax failed to keep customer data secure. They said there was information in 
the press in 2015 showing a Halifax data security flaw. Dr L said they wanted Halifax to 
undertake a review to identify historic data that should be removed from its electronic 
systems. Dr L also told us Halifax did not handle their complaint very well. They wanted 
Halifax to apologise for this.
In its first response to Dr L, Halifax said it was not part of its procedures in 2010 to deregister 
online banking when accounts were closed. It said that Dr Ls information had been 
protected.
Halifax then issued a further response to Dr L. It said it had reviewed their complaint after 
receiving further information. It then said it was an error not to cancel Dr Ls online banking.
It also said Dr L should have been sent a letter saying they could cancel their online banking 
when they hadnt logged on for a long time. Halifax offered to pay £50 to Dr L to compensate 
them for what had happened.
Dr L said they didnt think they had sent any new information to Halifax. They questioned 
whether Halifax had taken their disability into account when it was communicating with them.
Our investigator looked at all of this. She thought Halifax had already made a fair offer to put 
things right for Dr L. She didnt think it needed to take any further action.
Dr L did not accept our investigators view and so the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I asked our investigator to find out some more about how all of this had affected Dr L. Dr L 
told us that they have autism spectrum condition. They said the Equality Act 2010 deems the 
way they experience the world to arise from a disability. They said their experience with 
Halifax had caused them very intense and very unpleasant feelings. Dr L told us that the 
consequence of the mistake made by Halifax and the lack of clarity in its complaint response 
had an impact on their physical and mental health. In their response, Dr L said it might help 
effective communication if they could speak with me directly.
I issued a provisional decision in this matter because I thought Halifax needed to do more to 
put things right for Dr L. I said: 
I know Dr L said they thought it might help effective communication if they could 
speak with me directly. But Im satisfied I have enough information to make a 
decision from the written documents Dr L and Halifax have given me.
I intend to tell Halifax to do more to put things right for Dr L. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have to make clear what I can consider about Dr Ls complaint.
Dr L said they want Halifax to change its processes and identify other customers who 
may have been impacted by the same data issue as them. As a service, we dont 
regulate financial businesses. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. What 
that means in practice is that I cant tell Halifax what its processes should be. 
However, I can look at Dr Ls individual complaint and how they have been affected 
by the problems they identified with Halifax.
In the complaint form, Dr L said they wanted me to look at how Halifax had failed to 
show it had complied with the Equality Act 2010. Our service cant determine whether 
Halifax has complied with the Equality Act 2010  that would ultimately be for a court 
to decide. But in this decision, I have considered the Equality Act 2010 to help me 
decide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Dr L and Halifax now agree that it made a mistake. Dr Ls online banking should have 
been closed in 2010 when they closed their accounts. And Halifax should have sent 
them a letter to see whether they still needed access to their online account when 
they hadnt logged on for a long time.
When Dr L complained about all this to Halifax, the response Halifax sent was 
confusing.
First of all, it said there had been no mistake. Then it said it had new information and 
there had been a mistake. But Dr L hadnt sent any new information and it wasnt 
clear what Halifax was referring to.
So, what I have to look at now is how this has all affected Dr L. It looks as though 
there was some inconvenience to Dr L initially in that they couldnt get online access 
and this took a little bit of extra time to sort out. I think this would have caused Dr L 
some inconvenience at the time.
Dr L told us they were worried that their data had been at risk for over ten years. 
They told us about a Halifax data breach theyd read about that happened in 2015. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that Dr Ls data was impacted by that breach 
or that any of their data fell into the wrong hands.
But its clear from reading Dr Ls complaint that the matter has caused them a lot of 
worry since they found out their online banking data had been retained. Dr L told us 
they have autism spectrum condition and the situation with Halifax had caused a 
significant knock-on effect on their physical and mental health. Dr L told us that it 
should not be assumed that all of this would have a small impact on them just 
because that impact may be small on a typical person. Dr L told us that because of 
what happened and the impact on their mental health, they developed poor eating 
habits. They did not go out to exercise, which they said led to back pain.
Dr L also said that Halifax didnt take account of their disability through all of this. 
Looking at the information Halifax had, I can see Dr L disclosed they had health 
concerns and could be vulnerable. I havent seen anything to suggest that Halifax 
took any further action to find out more about Dr Ls health or how it impacted on 
them day-to-day.I think it would have been reasonable for Halifax to find out more about what Dr L 
had said about their health. Id expect Halifax to think about how it communicates 
with customers who may be vulnerable and take account of their needs. If Halifax 
had done this, I think it would have realised it could have been helpful to adapt the 
way it communicated with Dr L.
As I said above, the way Halifax communicated with Dr L when it responded to their
complaint was confusing. I can see that from what Dr L told us that this caused them 
a lot of concern and worry as well.
Putting all of this together then, my provisional view is that Dr L was put to some 
inconvenience when they ran into trouble setting up their online banking again. They 
have experienced a lot of worry because of the mistake Halifax made in retaining 
their data. And this worry was exacerbated by the unclear information in the letters 
Halifax sent to them. All of this had a greater impact on Dr L because of the way they 
experience the world.
With all of this in mind, I plan to tell Halifax to pay £250 to compensate Dr L for the 
upset and worry caused to them. I know Halifax already offered to pay £50, but its 
not clear whether thats already been paid to Dr L. If it has, Halifax will be able to take 
that off what it will then owe Dr L.
Halifax said it accepted what I said in the provisional decision. It said it had already paid £50 
to Dr L and agreed to pay a further £200. 
Dr L made some comments about the provisional decision. By way of brief summary, they 
said: 
their complaint around the Equality Act 2010 was that Halifax had not provided 
evidence of how it had attempted to comply with the legislation; and
it was not clear from my decision whether this service had investigated whether 
Dr Ls personal data had been part of any breach whilst it was improperly 
retained. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have upheld the complaint to the same extent as set out in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why. 
I have carefully considered the additional information Dr L sent to us. I am sorry to learn that 
my provisional decision caused Dr L some anxiety. It was not my intention to cause them 
any upset. I also want to make clear that the reason I set out the parameters of this service 
in my provisional decision was not intended to be a criticism of Dr L, but to explain why I 
could not recommend the outcome they sought on their complaint form. 
I can see Dr L was concerned as to whether we had investigated whether their data was 
affected by a data breach whilst it was improperly retained. Our investigator did look into this 
and made enquiries of Halifax. 
Halifax told her that it did not record the names of data subjects who had been impacted by 
a data breach where such a breach had affected a large number of its customers. Halifax is 
unable to say definitively whether Dr Ls data was affected by a breach. That said, as I set 
out in my provisional decision, I have not seen any evidence to suggest that Dr Ls data has 
been affected or there had been any detriment to Dr L arising from such a breach. However, I do acknowledge that Dr L has been very worried that their data was at risk when 
it was erroneously retained by Halifax. I took this into account when recommending Halifax 
compensate Dr L for the worry caused in that regard. 
Dr L also said that their complaint in respect of the Equality Act 2010 was that Halifax had 
not shown how or if it attempted to comply with the legislation. As I said in my provisional 
decision, I cant decide whether the Equality Act 2010 has been breached and similarly, I 
cant make a finding about whether Halifaxs actions complied with the legislation. 
What I can consider is whether Dr L was treated fairly. On that basis, my finding is that 
Halifax made a mistake when it closed Dr Ls account. As a result of that mistake and the 
way Halifax communicated with them afterwards, Dr L was caused a lot of worry. And it is on 
that basis that I think Halifax should pay compensation to Dr L. 
I said in my provisional decision that I could not tell Halifax what its internal processes 
should be. Dr L said that there was no obstruction to me concurring with their desire for 
good practice even if this service cannot enforce such practice. However, it is my role to 
consider individual complaints that arise between a customer and a business. We cannot 
consider the general policies and procedures of individual businesses as a whole. So, Im 
sorry that I cannot suggest to Halifax how it must put things right for others who may have 
been affected by the data breach Dr L referred to. 
With all of these things in mind and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im 
satisfied that a fair outcome to Dr Ls complaint is for Halifax to pay £250 in total to them. 
Putting things right
Halifax must pay £250 in total to Dr L to compensate them for the impact the errors I have 
identified above. I understand Halifax has already paid £50 to Dr L, so it must now arrange 
to pay them £200. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to put things 
right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman