DRN-4215535
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his account.
Background
In April 2023, Barclays took the decision to close Mr As account and it sent Mr A a letter on 
19 April 2023 confirming that it would be doing so in two months. Mr A complained about 
Barclays actions. Barclays didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A remained dissatisfied,  
Mr A referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards    
Mr A and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr A, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr A is unhappy 
that Barclays closed his account. However, each bank has its own criteria and risk 
assessment for deciding whether to close an account and providing a customer with an 
account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And typically, as long as it 
provides reasonable notice it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision.
In this case Mr A was provided with reasonable notice. So Im satisfied that Barclays had 
sufficient grounds to close Mr As account and as such its decision wasnt unfair in the 
circumstances. I realise that Barclays decision will have been very disappointing to Mr A 
and I can appreciate why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. But 
despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell Barclays it has to continue offering   
Mr A an account in circumstances which it has legitimately decided it no longer wishes to 
provide him with one. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr A and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why Barclays was entitled to close his account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman