DRN-3784465
The complaint
Mr B complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to include in its terms and conditions that he 
couldnt apply for a new monthly saver account, until the anniversary of the opening of his 
existing monthly saver account had passed. 
What happened
Mr B says he opened a TSB monthly saver account (MSA) online on 1 June 2022. Mr B says 
he then discovered a new monthly saver product had been introduced by TSB, offering a 
higher interest rate and allowable monthly deposit. Mr B says there was no upgrade to this 
new account to existing MSA holders and contrary to what he believed, he wasnt able to 
close his existing account and apply for the new MSA.  
Mr B says this restriction is not detailed in the general terms and conditions or the product 
conditions. Mr B wants TSB to revise its product literature and terms and conditions to make 
this clear and allow him to take advantage of the new MSA and pay him compensation for 
his trouble. 
TSB says while the documents Mr B reviewed, regarding the terms and conditions, may 
have not included the restrictions for existing MSA holders, it was detailed online in a 
summary document before he applied for the MSA.
Mr B wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says the restrictions for the MSA were reasonably prominent on TSBs website 
and the additional information, made it clear that customers couldnt open another MSA 
before the anniversary of any existing MSA. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr B, having read the terms and 
conditions of the MSA to then be told he couldnt apply for an improved MSA product, until 
the 12-month anniversary of his existing MSA opening had passed. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if TSB were at fault in not allowing Mr B to 
open a new improved MSA until the anniversary of his existing MSA had passed. 
The first thing to say is Mr B initially made mention of an issue regarding interest on early 
closure of a savings account, but this has been dealt with to Mr Bs satisfaction, so I wont be 
commenting on that.
Mr B s complaint centres around the fact there is nothing detailed in the general terms and 
conditions nor the MSA product conditions, restricting him from opening an new MSA before 
his existing MSA had passed its 12-month opening anniversary. 
Like the investigator I have looked at the online process to open an MSA and have also 
been provided by TSB, with extracts from its website. 
When Mr B applied online originally for his existing MSA in June 2022, from the information I 
have seen that would take him to a front page for the MSA, and under important 
information at the top of the page there would have been three documents to view:
 Monthly Saver summary box
 Monthly Saver product conditions
 Savings Account General Conditions
While I understand Mr Bs point that the specific restriction regarding existing MSA holders 
isnt detailed in the second two documents, it is clearly detailed in the MSA Summary box 
and its not clear why Mr B decided to read the other two documents and not this. The 
summary box states :
One account per customer.
If you close your Monthly Saver before the end of the 12-month term, you wont be able to 
open another account before the first anniversary of this account. 
Its also worth mentioning this restriction is also detailed in full on the application page of the 
MSA, before Mr B would have clicked on log in and apply. 
Its not unusual for businesses to provide separate terms and conditions for individual 
products alongside the general terms and conditions. I can understand why Mr B feels the 
restriction to existing MSA holders should  be detailed in TSBs product terms and 
conditions. 
That said, what is important here is whether or not TSB made it clear and visible to its MSA 
applicants of any restrictions on their accounts when they applied - on balance I am satisfied 
it has here, for the reasons I have already stated. Afterall, the summary document detailing 
this restriction, is the first document to view and repeated on the application page itself.
While Mr B be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of TSB. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 Barry White
Ombudsman