DRN-2281293
The complaint
Miss P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold her a life assurance policy. 
She expected it to cover her for her whole life but it was a term assurance policy that only 
covered her for 24 years.
What happened
Miss P purchased a life assurance policy from Aviva (then trading as Norwich Union) in 
2004. The policy provided life cover around £53,500 for monthly premiums of £30.
Miss P complained to Aviva in July 2019. Shed recently reviewed her policy and became 
aware that it had an end date in November 2028. She said that this should be a whole of life 
policy and wanted Aviva to put things right.
Aviva looked into her complaint but didnt uphold it. They explained that they hadnt provided 
financial advice to Miss P. They no longer had the phone call recordings from 2004 but 
confirmed that the policy Miss P had taken was a term assurance policy. They said that the 
application form showed that Miss P applied for a term assurance policy to cover 24 years. 
Aviva said that they provided the relevant documentation to Miss P to explain her policy. 
Aviva explained that her term assurance policy didnt have the option to be converted to a 
whole of life policy, so they were unable to change it.
Miss P didnt accept Avivas answer and brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint. She explained to Miss P that she thought that 
the available evidence showed Miss P applied for a policy with a term of 24 years. And said 
there was no evidence that Aviva had provided any personal recommendation to Miss P. So 
she didnt think that Aviva had done anything wrong. Miss P disagreed with this view, so this 
complaint was referred for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss P is distressed at the thought that she has been paying for a life 
assurance policy that will end in 2028. I know that Miss P will be disappointed with my 
decision, but for the reasons Ill explain, I wont be upholding her complaint.
Our investigator explained that Aviva no longer have the call recording from 2004 when this 
complaint was set up. So I cant know what was said. After so long a time it would be difficult 
to expect somebody to remember the exact details of a conversation regarding the setting 
up of a policy. I know that Miss P feels that she was pressurised into taking out this policy, 
but I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that was the case.
Miss P sent us a copy of a letter that she received in 2004 from Norwich Union. The letter 
appears to be part of a promotional campaign and starts thank you for enquiring about Life 
Insurance* with Norwich Union. A note at the end of the page said *also referred to as 
Term Assurance. The letter also explained that the cost of cover will depend on the level 
and period of cover selected. This letter doesnt indicate that the product that Miss P was 
interested in was a whole of life insurance policy. 
Aviva have shown us the application form that Miss P submitted. The reference numbers on 
that application relate to the promotional letter Miss P had received. Under the section 
headed Plan Details Miss P had entered £53,546 as the insured amount, and directly 
beneath that entered 24 years as the term. So I think that the policy Miss P applied for in 
2004 was a term assurance policy. Which means that the policy she was provided was what 
she asked for.
Miss P has said that she was mis-advised in taking this policy. But Ive insufficient evidence 
to be able to say that she was provided with advice. I know that she has referred to the 
promotional letter that she received which said that if she wished to obtain personal advice, 
she could contact Norwich Union. It meant that the option of obtaining advice was available if 
needed. But I dont think it means that any call made to set up a policy amounted to advice.
Aviva have said that advice would involve a personal recommendation. Which would have 
required an adviser to obtain Miss Ps personal financial information to be able to give a 
tailored recommendation. Which I think is fair. Had this happened Id expect there to be a 
fact-find and a suitability report outlining the advisers recommendation. Ive seen no 
evidence of these things from either Aviva or Miss P. Its possible for a consumer to call a 
provider to set up a life assurance policy without paying for or receiving financial advice. 
Given the information that I have, I think its more likely than not, that is what happened in 
this case. So Miss P wasnt mis-sold the policy by Aviva.
I dont think that Aviva have done anything wrong in this case. They provided Miss P with the 
product she appears to have applied for. So I wont be asking Aviva to do anything to put 
things right. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman