DRN-3300801
The complaint
Mr G held an account with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. He complains that he was 
unable to change his address or close the account without going into branch, which is 
impractical and so he was unable to update his account. 
 
What happened
Mr G held an account with Halifax from 1996. 
Halifax say that the account was unused, and so they sent Mr G a letter asking him what he 
wanted to do with it.  As Mr G didnt reply, the account was classed as dormant. 
This meant that Mr G was then required to attend the local branch with identification 
documents to change his address and close the account. 
In February 2021 Mr G complained to Halifax about this as he was unable to easily access 
his local branch to change the address and close the account.
    
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. They confirmed that the process for unused accounts 
is to send out mail asking what the account holder wants to do. If the mail is unanswered, 
the account is classed as dormant and will require the account holder to attend the local 
branch with identification documents to change the address, reactivate it or close it.  They 
said this is a fraud prevention measure to ensure the account doesnt fall into criminal hands.
 
Mr G was unhappy with this response as he says that his local branch was not near to him 
and wasnt open at the weekend. This was also during one of the national lockdowns and so 
the opening hours were reduced. 
Mr G brought the complaint to us and it was looked into by one of our investigators who 
thought that Halifax had fairly followed their process.   
 
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have reviewed all information provided by both Mr G and the business.
Mr Gs main complaint is that he wasnt able to complete a change of address without going 
into branch. He says that he completed a change of address form in February 2021 when 
there was a national lockdown and he couldnt attend a branch. He says that he was told by 
staff during a telephone call that this would be sufficient. 
He also says that he had received no prior communications from Halifax asking what he 
wanted to do with his account or advising of any restrictions on it. 
I have thought about this and considered all the evidence including Halifaxs policy. I can see 
that Halifax put Mr Gs account into a dormant state when he didnt reply to their mail which 
was sent to his last known address. I assume that Mr G didnt receive this as it was sent to 
the address the Halifax had on record, which we know was not his current address. 
So, I dont think Halifax have done anything wrong in making the account dormant. It was Mr 
Gs responsibility to notify Halifax of any change of address, and I have seen no evidence 
that he did this prior to the account being made dormant. Halifax have followed their 
documented process for unused accounts and following no response have made the 
account dormant. 
Halifax have also sent us the reactivation process for dormant accounts, which requires the 
customer to provide identification and address verification in person at a branch. If a 
customer has moved house the address cant be updated until the reactivation process has 
taken place which requires a customer to go into branch. This is a fraud prevention measure 
to stop criminals hijacking unused accounts. All financial institutions are required to have 
measures like this in place to protect customers. 
I appreciate that being required to go into branch would have been frustrating and 
inconvenient for Mr G, but as it is in line with the policy, I cant say it is unfair. I have also 
then considered whether this was an unreasonable request when the country was in a 
national lockdown, and there was a stay at home rule in place. I can see that this 
requirement was communicated to Mr G at the end of February 2021. The easing of 
lockdown restrictions was announced on 22 February 2021 and stay at home rule was lifted 
on 29 March, with all non-essential shops opening on 12 April. Banks were open throughout 
the lockdown, but I appreciate they might have been on restricted opening hours and Mr G 
may not have felt comfortable travelling to the branch.  
I can see that Mr Gs nearest branches were 8 miles and 8.7 miles away respectively. Whilst 
they were not in his town, they were both accessible by car, or by public transport from Mr 
Gs house. Their published opening hours included Saturdays between 9-1. Although I 
accept that at the time in question in February 2021 it may have been difficult to make the 
journey to branch, and they may have been on reduced opening, this would have reverted to 
normal on 29 March 2021. As I am not aware of any urgency to Mr G reactivating his 
account and changing the address, I dont think it would have been unreasonable for him to 
have made the trip to the branch at the end of March. The account had no money in it and 
had not been used for several years.     
Mr G has said that he made two telephone calls to Halifax in which he wasnt told his 
account had been restricted, and that he made requests by telephone, internet and post to 
change his address. Although Halifax have no record of the calls, I dont dispute that Mr G 
made these calls. However, whether he was advised of restrictions or not doesnt change my 
view that Halifax have correctly followed their process for dormant accounts and Mr G is 
required to attend the branch. 
I am also satisfied that although Mr G had requested address changes in several different 
ways, there was no obligation on Halifax to make that change until Mr G had attended the 
branch with his identification documents. 
I note that Mr G has said that this account remaining open will have impacted on his credit 
file, but I havent seen any evidence of this, and the presence of a bank account that holds 
no funds would be unlikely to have an adverse effect on any credit searches.  For the reasons state above, I agree with the investigator that Halifax havent done anything 
wrong here. 
In view of the above I wont be recommending that Halifax do anything further.    
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman