DRN-3663230
The complaint
Mr O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund him the money 
he lost when a course he had paid for wasnt provided. 
What happened
Mr O is represented in this case but as he is the account holder, Ill refer to Mr O throughout 
this decision. 
Mr O wanted to complete a course and chose a course provider Ill refer to as T. The total 
cost of the course was £3,000 and Mr O was asked to pay an initial amount of £1,000 
quickly to secure his place on a course. The course was due to start in January 2022 and Mr 
O made the first payment (of £1,000) in May 2021. Between May and August 2021 Mr O 
made four further payments of £500 each to T. All payments were made by bank transfer. 
Before the course was due to start Mr O became aware of problems with T. Mr O had 
queries about the course but didnt get any response to calls or emails and Ts website had 
been suspended. Ts office was empty and there were reports that items had been cleared 
from it. Mr O also noted that the person hed communicated with about the course who held 
herself out to be the director of operations resigned as a director years before. It also 
became clear that T hadnt submitted other students work to the examining body. Mr O 
reported these issues to NatWest in December 2021.  
NatWest said that Mr O had a dispute with T, and it couldnt help. 
As Mr O was unhappy with the response, he brought a complaint to this service. The 
investigator who considered this complaint agreed that Mr O most likely had a civil dispute 
with T. He said this because he hadnt seen any evidence that the course provider intended 
to defraud him at the time the payment was made. 
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator and asked for his case to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me. In summary, he said:
- NatWest should refer the matter to its cyber-crime unit and complete a full 
investigation which should involve other parties like the police and HMRC so that the 
criminals involved are caught and brought to justice.
- The individual who took Mr Os funds called herself a director but had resigned so 
took his money under false pretenses. 
- By September 2021 T knew it would disappear as the website was removed and they 
stopped responding to calls and emails and submitting work to the examining body.
- A former director of T has been able to open a new business without any 
investigation into where the funds came from. 
- He has spoken to a tutor at the college at the time who says T owed money for tax, 
rent and to the examining body. Tutors were told to sign people up to further courses 
and use the fees to pay their wages. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about whats happened in this case. I can totally 
understand Mr Os wish to get his money back and for there to be a greater investigation into 
Ts actions. But it isnt NatWests role to complete a criminal investigation or to refer to other 
bodies like HMRC. I can only look at whether NatWest has treated Mr O fairly and 
reasonably in determining that he has a civil dispute with T. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam (excepted in limited circumstances). But the CRM Code is quite 
explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a 
legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So the CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers against non-receipt of services. 
Instead it only applies in very specific circumstances  where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam.
Its clear that Mr O did not receive the course he paid for. However, in order to be satisfied 
that Mr O has been the victim of a scam, Id have to be satisfied that the directors of T were 
intent on defrauding him from the outset. Im not persuaded I can say that is most likely what 
happened here and will explain why. 
There were some aspects that werent right at the time Mr O made the payments, like the 
fact he received emails from someone claiming to be a director but who had resigned this 
position. But I dont consider theres enough evidence to say that in May to August 2021, 
when Mr O made the payments, T intentionally accepted payments for a course it had no 
intention of providing in January 2022. Its difficult to pinpoint when a business that has 
traded legitimately ceases to do so, but it seems more likely to me that things changed after 
Mr O made the payments. I note that Mr O said to this service that by September 2021,T 
knew it was going to disappear and it stopped responding to all communication  but this 
was after Mr O had paid the full balance for the course. 
In reaching my decision Ive seen confidential information (that I cannot share in any way) 
from Ts bank and had the opportunity to see transactions on the account. Nothing I have 
seen leads me to believe that at the time Mr O made payments T was acting fraudulently. 
Likewise, I havent seen any evidence that the police have concluded that the directors of T 
acted fraudulently. 
I also dont think the payments Mr O made were sufficiently out of character or unusual for 
NatWest to have had any concerns about them so I dont consider it should have intervened 
for that reason. The payments were relatively low in value and were spread out from May to 
August 2021. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr O but overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I cant fairly or reasonably ask NatWest to refund the money he lost.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman