DRN-4496434
The complaint
Mr B and Miss M complain that the amount U K Insurance Limited (UKI) offered them to 
settle their home insurance claim is too low.
Mr B and Miss M are joint policyholders. As most of the communication relating to the 
complaint has been from Miss M, Ill refer mainly to her in my decision.
UKI is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As UKI has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to UKI includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In early 2023, Mr B and Miss M discovered an escape of water which had caused a hole in 
the ceiling and damage to the kitchen beneath it. Mr B and Miss M called an emergency 
plumber and borrowed some driers from Mr Bs employer. They then telephoned UKI to 
register their claim.
UKI arranged for a representative to visit the property to assess the damage. By the time of 
the visit, the property was dry. Mr B and Miss M had disposed of the damaged flooring and a 
kitchen cabinet they said had been damaged by the incident.
Miss M was asked to get a quote from a builder showing a breakdown of repairs. The builder 
quoted them around £60,000 which included works that werent covered by the claim.
UKI offered Mr B and Miss M a cash settlement of around £4,500 (less the policy excess). It 
said it wasnt able to offer any settlement in respect of their kitchen units because the 
cabinet had been disposed of prior to claiming.
Miss M was unhappy with UKIs settlement offer, so she raised a complaint.
UKI said it would be willing to review a quote from another contractor. Miss M obtained 
another quote for works UKI had agreed were covered by the claim. However, UKI didnt 
agree to meet the costs quoted. It increased its cash settlement offer to £6,000 (less the 
excess).
Miss M remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator 
didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She thought UKIs decision to not include the 
kitchen units in the settlement of the claim was fair. She thought UKIs cash settlement offer 
was reasonable and above what it was expected to pay under the policys terms. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2023, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr B and Miss Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr B and Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Kitchen cabinet
The policys terms and conditions say:
For any claim you must:
give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for, including proof of 
ownership or value of the lost or damaged item and written estimates for repair
allow us (or our appointed suppliers) to access or inspect the damaged items and/or 
property
UKI wouldnt agree to cover the cost of replacing the units in Mr B and Miss Ms kitchen 
because there was no evidence of the damaged wall unit. 
Miss M says the water had come through the ceiling onto the kitchen cabinet that was 
underneath it, causing it to swell and come away from the wall. It had proceeded to fall onto 
the washing machine, damaging the electrics and the floor.
Miss M says she hadnt realised that she needed to keep the kitchen unit that was damaged 
by the incident. I understand there arent any photographs of the damaged item either.
 
I appreciate Miss M feels that the large gap on the wall where the cabinet had been, and the 
hole in the ceiling above it, should be enough to prove her loss. However, UKI has noted that 
the unit was solid wood which is less prone to swelling and it says it might have been able to 
repair the cabinet if it had been given the opportunity to do so. 
UKI says it agreed to cover the cost of replacing the flooring despite this also being 
unavailable for inspection because it accepted it was unlikely this would have been suitable 
for repair.
Given what it says in the policy terms, I dont think its unfair for UKI to refuse to cover     
Miss Ms claim for the damaged kitchen cabinet and matching units.
Cash settlement
The policys terms and conditions set out how UKI settles building claims. They say:
If we can repair or rebuild the damaged part, but we agree to use your suppliers or make a 
cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our suppliers and 
therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged by your suppliers.
If we cannot repair or rebuild the damaged part we will pay the full cost of rebuild or repair.
According to UKIs notes, its initial cash settlement offer was based on the middle quote from 
its three approved suppliers. Its second offer was based on the highest quote of its three 
suppliers, rounded up to the nearest £1,000. It added a further £1,000 for its final settlement 
offer of £6,000 (less the £450 policy excess). 
However, this still falls below the second quote Miss M obtained for repairs which was 
£9,651.60.The rates an insurer pays its approved suppliers tend to be below market rates. UKIs initial 
two offers were based on quotes from its own suppliers, rather than the market rate. So, its 
unlikely they would have been sufficient to indemnify Miss M and Mr B for their loss.  
The terms of the policy only allow UKI to limit the settlement to its own costs if it can repair or 
rebuild the damage using its own suppliers. UKI has confirmed that it never offered Miss M 
the option of having the repairs carried out by its suppliers. 
I appreciate UKI added £1,000 to the highest quote for its most recent offer. However, based 
on what Ive seen, Im still not persuaded that this will be enough to cover the cost of Miss M 
having the work carried out by her own contractors. 
UKI has noted that the scope on the quote provided by Miss M is the same as on its scope 
of works. The reason it appears to have rejected the quote was because it was higher than 
the quotes of its approved suppliers. However, UKI didnt offer for the work to be done by its 
approved suppliers. Nor did it give Miss M the opportunity to provide another quote. So, I 
think it would be fair for UKI to increase the cash settlement for the repairs to the amount 
showing on the quote (£9,651.60).
I understand that UKI is yet to pay Miss M the £150 it has agreed to for plumbing costs, so 
this will also need to be paid. 
Miss M says they havent been able to carry out repairs, aside from taking down the ceiling 
because their claim hasnt been settled. This means she and Mr B have been left in poor 
living conditions for a lot longer than they should have been. So, I think it would be fair for 
UKI to also pay them £400 for distress and inconvenience.
I set out what I intended to direct UKI to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Miss M said she had no final points to add, and she was happy with my decision. UKI agreed 
to accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party disagrees with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to change them. 
Putting things right
UKI should pay Miss M and Mr B:
£9,651.60 (less the policy excess) for the repairs and
£150 for the plumbing costs and
£400 for distress and inconvenience.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr B and Miss Ms complaint and direct U K 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman