DRN-2160518
The complaint
Mrs H complains that administrative errors by Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited meant 
she lost track of a pension policy and so missed the opportunity to raise a complaint about 
the sale.
What happened
Mrs H worked for a large insurance company (R) in the south east of the UK under her 
maiden name and was a member of its occupational pension scheme (OPS). In November 
1988 she changed jobs to work for a small insurance broker and one of the partners 
recommended she contract out of the state earnings related pension scheme (SERPS). So 
Mrs H started a pension policy with Norwich Union. She signed the application for a Section 
32 buyout plan in May 1989, which transferred her deferred benefits with R. In June of that 
year she got married and changed her name, providing a copy of the marriage certificate to 
her employer. Then in December 1989 she relocated to the west country and re-joined her 
original employer R, and its OPS. 
Around 2002 Norwich Union became Aviva so Mrs Hs policy is now with Aviva. While 
Norwich Union had a copy of Mrs Hs marriage certificate it hadnt changed her name on the 
policy. From 2010 Aviva carried out several tracing exercises for policy holders it lost touch 
with, including Mrs H. She moved address several times over the years and although she 
had her mail redirected, didnt receive any of the correspondence. Her old employer went out 
of business around 2003 and it appears the partners have since died. In 2009 the trustees of 
her OPS provided an incorrect transfer value statement which showed she still retained 
deferred benefits from pensionable service between December 1980 and November 1988. 
In 2018 Mrs H says she found out about the Aviva policy which records show was started 
with a single premium contribution of £4,383 in July 1989. In January 2019 it was valued at 
just over £32,249, but Mrs H is worried wont provide the same retirement benefits as the 
OPS she transferred away from. Mrs H thinks she was given bad advice to start the policy 
but its too late for her to complain or raise a claim with the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme. She thinks that if the policy had been changed to her married name as it should 
have been, tracing attempts would have had a better chance of success. This is because 
she believes she has a more unusual married surname than the maiden name on the policy. 
So Avivas poor administration has deprived her of the opportunity to complain to her ex-
employer about the sale. 
Aviva admits Mrs Hs policy should have been in her married name as they always had her 
marriage certificate. But the name isnt the only information it uses to trace policy holders. 
For example it had provided the Department of Social Security with Mrs Hs national 
insurance number to locate her without success. And it says policy holders have a 
responsibility to advise of their updated contact details. Mrs H said she couldnt have done 
that as she didnt know until 2018 she had a policy with Aviva and believed her deferred 
benefits were still with the OPS. 
So Mrs H brought her complaint to this service. Shes particularly concerned about her 
retirement provision as she can no longer work due to a car accident. 
Our investigator understood Mrs Hs concerns but was satisfied Aviva had done all it 
reasonably could to trace her, and it wasnt responsible for the failure of other agencies or 
the incorrect information provided by the OPS trustees. But Mrs H maintains Aviva could 
have traced her if it had updated the policy name. She suggested various ways she could 
have been found  shes been on Facebook since 2007, been on the electoral roll 
throughout, and has remained in touch with an ex-colleague who couldve provided her 
address if asked for it.
So its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I realise this will be disappointing news for Mrs H 
given her circumstances, so let me explain why.
Its clear there was a failure in the administration of Mrs Hs policy at an early stage when 
Norwich Union received a copy of her marriage certificate but failed to update the name, and 
this wasnt noticed when Aviva inherited it. But in order to uphold this complaint Id have to 
be satisfied that this error is the sole reason Mrs H missed the opportunity to complain about 
the sale of the policy to her old employer. And on balance I cant fairly say that. 
Mrs H said she didnt know the policy existed until 2018 so she had no reason to let Aviva 
know when she changed address. Due to the passage of time theres little paperwork 
available, but we do have a copy of the original proposal form which Mrs H signed on 
19 May 1989. Im not a handwriting expert but Im satisfied the signature on this form 
matches the one on the marriage certificate which Mrs H doesnt dispute, and Mrs H recalls 
signing a form which she thought was to contract out of SERPS, as recommended by the 
partner of the firm where she worked. Contracting out was quite common around that time 
as growth rates were higher than today. So it looked likely contributions invested in the 
markets via a personal pension might grow to provide more retirement benefits than SERPS.
But I can see the proposal form related to a transfer. The application booklet is headed 
Norwich Unions Transfer Plan and is stamped with the name of the insurance brokers 
Mrs H worked for. And on the final page is a four-point declaration Mrs H had to agree to. 
Point (ii) reads the transfer value arises from the proceeds of an occupational pension 
scheme . 
And just above the signature it reads In addition to the above declaration, I the Member 
agree to accept the Transfer Plan in substitution to all the benefits to which I or my 
dependents could be entitled under the above-named Scheme and I release the Trustees 
from all liabilities in respect of such benefits.  
I cant be sure all the handwritten information in the boxes was present at the time Mrs H 
signed the form, as the section for completion on behalf of the trustees is signed by a Ms L 
whose job title is noted as Section Head Leaver Benefits on 7 June 1989. 
But section 2 of the form is completed with details of the R OPS, section 5 details the 
benefits under the OPS (such as a widowers pension) and only section 6 relates to contracting out of SERPS. So I think Mrs H had the opportunity to see what she was signing 
up to, even if she trusted the partner who recommended the product. 
About a month after signing the application Mrs H got married abroad, and later that year 
relocated to another part of the UK changing jobs again. So she clearly had a lot going on in 
that year. But while its completely understandable if she didnt think much about the policy 
over the years, thats not the same as not knowing anything about its existence until 2018 as 
Mrs H claims. 
She might have been focussed on her wedding plans in May and June 1989, but it doesnt 
seem likely shed have forgotten completely about the application as soon as she signed it. 
Or at any point in the six months between Mrs H applying for the policy and when she 
changed jobs and moved away in December 1989. She gave her employers a copy of her 
marriage certificate, so they might have passed it to Norwich Union. And even if this wasnt 
with her express consent I think Mrs H would prefer and expect that if shed applied for a 
policy in her maiden name it would be updated to reflect her recent marriage. The proposal 
form included her address at the time, which is where any correspondence in relation to the 
policy is likely to have been sent, rather than to her employer. 
When she started her new job with R and re-joined its OPS shed have expected her 
deferred benefits to still be in place rather than having been transferred away. Its 
unfortunate the OPS trustees misled Mrs H in 2009 by giving the impression it still held her 
deferred benefits for the period to November 1988. But it might not have made a difference, 
as her ex-employer had ceased trading several years previously around 2003 so it looks like 
shed have been too late to complain then, even if shed been given the right information. 
I understand Mrs H thinks Aviva could have used other methods to trace her. But apart from 
the Data Protection considerations of contacting ex-colleagues or checking social media, I 
dont think it would be reasonable or practical for Aviva to have undertaken such labour-
intensive searches when carrying out routine tracing exercises in respect of orphan 
policies. 
So while I understand Mrs Hs concerns that she might have lost out on valuable retirement 
benefits by transferring, it wouldnt be fair to hold Aviva responsible for that. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman