DRN-4210118
The complaint
Mr G complains that Koto Card Limited trading as The Credit Thing (TCT) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr G applied for a credit card with TCT. TCT approved the application and 
gave Mr G a card with an initial credit limit of £500. The credit limit was increased to £800 in 
April 2022.
Mr G complained that TCT had lent to him irresponsibly.
TCT didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr G.
Mr G remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that TCT had completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Mr G didnt agree. He said hed had other complaints about irresponsible lending determined 
in his favour and that he shouldnt have been given the card because he already had several 
cards and loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Gs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, TCT needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mr G could sustainably repay what was being lent to him.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to carry out. But lenders are required to 
consider things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ive looked at the checks that TCT completed prior to each lending decision to see if these 
were reasonable and proportionate.
Mr G declared income of £2400 per month when he applied for the card. He declared 
expenditure of £250. TCT used an industry tool to verify Mr Gs income.
TCT carried out a credit check to see what other credit commitments Mr G had. This showed 
that Mr G had several credit card accounts. TCT looked at the total amount of credit 
available to Mr G across all of these credit accounts, as well as his utilisation of that credit. 
TCT also looked at how the accounts were being managed, for instance, whether payments 
were up to date, and whether there had been any missed payments, defaults or CCJs.
TCT didnt see anything in the information gathered which gave it cause for concern. It 
carried out an affordability check and found that the credit was affordable for Mr G.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by TCT were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Looking at the information 
gathered, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr G was struggling to repay his debts, or 
that he was overly reliant on credit. His monthly disposable income was sufficient to afford 
the repayments on the credit card. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think there was any 
reason to think that Mr G wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the credit.
For these reasons I dont think TCT lent to Mr G irresponsibly.
Ive taken account of everything Mr G has said. I can see from the credit check that Mr G 
had other credit cards and loans. But this of itself isnt a reason for a lender not to approve 
credit. The checks didnt indicate that Mr G was struggling to repay his existing credit 
commitments or that he was dependent on credit.
I appreciate that Mr G may have had other complaints about lending resolved in his favour. 
But this service considers every complaint on its own merits, so Im not bound by the 
outcome in other cases, even if the circumstances are broadly similar.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman