DRN-3908308
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax recorded information about late 
payments on his credit file. To settle the complaint he wants the markers removed.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr A being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr A has a mortgage with Halifax, and had arranged for his mortgage direct debits to be 
taken on the 28th of the month. Mr A had set up a separate bank account into which he paid 
money every month, out of which the mortgage would be paid. However, on two occasions, 
June 2022 and September 2022, because there were insufficient funds in the account on the 
28th, it couldnt be made. The payments were each made about two weeks later, but late 
payment markers were recorded on Mr As credit file.
Mr A asked Halifax to remove the information from the credit file because he wanted to move 
house, but the bank declined to do so. Unhappy with the Halifaxs response, Mr A brought 
his complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that the bank had correctly and accurately 
reported the position on the account.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators findings. He explained that for the two months where 
the payments were missed hed neglected to transfer sufficient funds into the account to 
cover them, and acknowledged that this was his responsibility. But he said it wasnt fair, just 
because hed set up his direct debit to be taken on the 28th of the month, that a missed 
payment went over into the next month. Mr A said that if hed set up the payment on the 
1st of the month and didnt have enough money in his account to pay it, it would have been 
caught up in the month it was due. Mr A also said that his financial adviser had told him that 
it is standard that they have to give you 30 days to pay. 
Mr A is adamant that it is unfair, when he is trying to move house, that Halifax has acted 
unfairly by showing two missed payments on his credit file, as this looks bad. 
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has accepted that it was his responsibility to ensure that there were sufficient funds in 
the account from which the direct debit was paid to cover the mortgage payment. Hes 
acknowledged that, by an oversight, on two occasions this didnt happen. Therefore its not 
in dispute that reason the two missed payments werent made on the 28th was not as a result 
of any error on the part of Halifax.
It was Mr As choice to set up his monthly repayment to be taken on the 28th of each month. 
This is the latest date that can be chosen in order to avoid payments being collected in the 
following month.  I agree with Mr A that if hed set up the payment date as the 1st of the 
month that he could have made up the missed payments before the end of the months in 
which they were due. But it was his choice to set the repayment date as the last possible 
date it could be made. I cant hold Halifax responsible for this decision, nor do I have any 
power to tell Halifax to change its policy on collection of payments.
In any event, I note Mr A took out the mortgage after receiving advice from his own 
independent financial adviser, who would have been required to advise him on the 
implications of choosing the payment date. Mr A says his financial adviser told him that it is 
standard that they have to give you 30 days to pay. This isnt correct. The payment has to 
be made in the month in which it is due. 
Mr A also says that the letters he received explaining hed missed a payment and that the 
bank would try to collect it again in ten days time gave him a false sense of security that 
there would be no repercussions for having missed a payment. However, Im not persuaded 
Halifax ever suggested to Mr A in the letters he received about the missed payments that 
these would not affect his credit file.
Halifax is under an obligation to provide accurate reports to credit reference agencies, 
including instances where payments due under a credit agreement have not been made on 
time. In the circumstances, Im unable to find Halifax has done anything wrong here.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. If Mr A believes the entries on his 
credit file are incorrect or inaccurate, it is always open to him to write to the credit reference 
agencies requesting that a Notice of Correction be added to his credit file. 
A  Notice of Correction is a note of up to 200 words that a consumer can leave on their credit 
report to explain something that prospective lenders may otherwise call into question. The 
Notice of Correction must accurately explain whats happened, so Mr A would need to 
explain accurately the reasons why he missed the two payments in June 2022 and 
September 2022. 
There are both advantages and disadvantages to Notices of Correction, depending on what 
they are being used for. If there is a genuine reason for submitting a Notice of Correction 
(such as helping prevent identity fraud), then the consumer should benefit from having one. 
If a consumer went through a period of unemployment or illness and missed payments as a 
result, a Notice of Correction can also address this. But potential lenders are obliged to read 
Notices of Correction and so can add to the time it takes for a lender to reach a decision.
However, in all the circumstances of this case, Im unable to find that Halifax has done 
anything wrong, and so theres no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order 
Halifax to remove the markers from Mr As credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman