DRN-3801771
The complaint
Mrs M complains that when she claimed for her dogs treatment for Gastric Dilatation and 
Volvulus (GDV) Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd declined her claim, 
and added an exclusion to her policy in respect of all claims related to the digestive system. 
She wants them to remove the exclusion from her policy and pay her claim.
What happened
Mrs M has cover for her dog with C&G. Her cover started on 11 July 2021 and covers vet 
fees up to £4,000 subject to a policy excess of £90.
On 14 January 2022 Mrs M took the dog to her vet as he had a massively distended 
stomach. He was referred for emergency surgery for GDV which was carried out the same 
day. Mrs M has told us that she paid the vet £1,285.43 and an administration fee on £120. 
And she gave her vet C&Gs details so they could submit a claim for the balance of their fee. 
The vet submitted a claim to C&G on 14 January 2022 with a copy of the clinical notes in 
respect of the dogs treatment and confirmation of the sums paid by Mrs M.
C&G declined Mrs Ms claim as they said her dog had problems with retching and vomiting 
in July 2021, a few days before she took out her cover, which she hadnt declared. And had 
she declared this theyd have added an exclusion to her policy in respect of all claims 
relating to the digestive system. So they added the exclusion to her policy, backdating it to 
11 July 2021, and declined her claim based on this.
Mrs M wasnt happy with C&G declining her claim, so she raised a complaint. While C&G 
accepted that her dog didnt have GDV before his policy started, they said hed been seen 
by her vet for vomiting and retching, and had she told them about this theyd have added an 
exclusion to her policy. So they said the exclusion regarding her dogs digestive system had 
been correctly added to the policy. And theyd acted correctly in declining the claim based on 
the exclusion.
Mrs M wasnt happy with C&Gs response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and upheld Mrs Ms complaint. She said C&G should remove the 
exclusion from Mrs Ms policy and reconsider her claim under the remaining policy terms. 
Our investigator said that the relevant legislation she needed to consider was the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA requires consumers 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out insurance. And its 
for insurers to show that it asked clear questions at the point of sale.  
When Mrs M purchased her policy, she was asked whether she was looking for cover for 
pre-existing conditions. She was also asked to read the policy assumptions and as part of 
that, she was able to read the definition of pre-existing, and confirm that she understood this.
C&G have confirmed that theyre not saying GDV is a pre-existing condition but say had Mrs 
M declared her dogs history of retching and vomiting, they would have applied an exclusion. 
But our investigator said theres no evidence that Mrs M was asked a clear question about 
any previous symptoms whether these resulted in a diagnosis of a condition, or not. 
So our investigator didnt think Mrs M had failed to take reasonable care to not make a 
misrepresentation. And she didnt think it was fair for C&G to apply a retrospective exclusion 
to Mrs Ms policy and decline the claim based on it.
C&G didnt accept our investigators opinion. Theyve said that the terms and conditions of 
Mrs Ms policy say they will apply an exclusion if they become aware of a pre-existing 
condition. Which is what theyve done, as they became aware the dog was seen about an 
episode of retching and vomiting on 5 July 2021, when Mrs M made her claim for GDV. And 
as the dogs records refer to vomiting the appropriate exclusion is in respect of anything to 
do with the digestive system. And in respect of bloat the appropriate exclusion is for gastric 
torsion, dilation and bloat.
The case has now come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For C&G to be able to add exclusions to Mrs Ms policy when she made her claim, I have to 
be satisfied that there was a misrepresentation when she took out her policy. CIDRA says 
that when taking out insurance a consumer must take reasonable care not to make any 
misrepresentations. CIDRA also says that an insurer must ask clear questions at the point of 
sale. 
When setting up her policy online Mrs M was asked to select the type on policy she wanted. 
She was then asked to read and to agree to a number of policy assumptions. The relevant 
assumption in this case is that she wasnt seeking cover for any pre-existing conditions. A 
link was provided to the policy definition of a pre-existing condition. This definition is Pre-
existing Condition Means any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated 
Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical signs or Symptoms of existing in any 
form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Mrs M confirmed that shed read the assumptions and wasnt seeking cover for any pre-
existing conditions. The question about whether she wanted cover for pre-existing conditions 
doesnt require her to disclose anything. She wasnt asked about previous illnesses or 
conditions, so she didnt have to disclose them.
C&G have said Mrs M didnt declare that her dog had an episode of retching and vomiting in 
July 2021, but as she wasnt asked about it, she didnt need to disclose it.
As there was no misrepresentation by Mrs M, C&G werent entitled to add an exclusion to 
her policy when she submitted her claim in January 2022, and to decline her claim on the 
basis of that exclusion. So I require them to remove the exclusion added to her policy in 
January 2022 and to pay her claim subject to any applicable policy limit and excess. 
Together with interest at 8% on any amount paid by Mrs M from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint about 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.And I require them to pay her claim for her dogs January 2022 surgery, subject to any 
applicable policy limit and excess. Together with interest at 8% on any amount paid by Mrs 
M from the date of payment until the date of settlement. And to remove the exclusions added 
to her policy following her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman