DRN-1164956
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained that the broker, Fresh Insurance Services Group Limited renewed his 
car insurance policy against his wishes. 
What happened
Mr W bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Fresh Insurance in 2018. In February 
2019 Fresh emailed Mr W a renewal notice a month before his policy was due to renew on 
21 March 2019. It didnt hear from Mr W, so Fresh automatically renewed his policy as it said 
it would. 
In April 2019 after the cooling off period Mr W called Fresh. He said he hadnt asked it to 
renew his policy. Mr W said he noticed the first monthly instalment had been collected from 
his account. Fresh said it would arrange for his policy to be cancelled, but Mr W would need 
to pay for the time he was insured and cancellation fees. Mr W was very unhappy about this. 
He said hed returned the car to the finance company. So he didnt think he should pay 
anything. So Fresh said if Mr W could provide proof of the date he returned the car to the 
finance company  it would ask the insurer to consider backdating the cancellation of his 
policy to the same date. 
Mr W had changed the registration plate for his car to a private one in 2018. He provided a 
notification from the DVLA dated 8 April 2019  after the renewal date - with the previous 
registration plate details. It confirmed he was no longer the registered keeper of the car. Mr 
W said Fresh asked him for further information as the registration details werent the same 
as the registration details at renewal. Mr W said he didnt provide further information. 
Mr W asked us to look at his complaint. He said he didnt have easy access to emails. He 
believes Fresh should have sent the renewal invitation by post. 
Our investigator thought Fresh had acted reasonably. It had given Mr W sufficient notice of 
the renewal by email and text message.  As it didnt hear from Mr W, it had correctly 
renewed his policy to prevent him from driving uninsured. It didnt receive enough 
information to show Mr W had returned his car to the finance company before the renewal 
date, so it hadnt asked the insurer to backdate the cancellation.
Mr W didnt agree. He provided a copy of a cover letter and certificate of insurance showing 
a change of registration details in 2018. Mr W said this was sent to him by post. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What I've decided - and why
Fresh Insurances Terms of Business say the following:Renewal of your policy
We will inform you if we are able to offer automatic renewal and we may renew your policy 
automatically each year unless you request otherwise. If you are paying by monthly 
instalments, your finance company will issue a new agreement and will then continue to 
collect direct debits from your account. If the direct debit fails we may need to debit the card 
from which the original deposit was taken to ensure continuity of cover. If you paid in full we 
will collect the renewal premium from the same card. You will receive a renewal invitation 
from us and this will normally be issued 21 days prior to your renewal date. To ensure your 
payment processes correctly we will debit cards seven days before renewal unless you 
advise us otherwise. Insurers do not provide a period of grace to renew your policy. If we are 
not able to offer an automatic renewal, your renewal invite will state this and you must 
contact us in good time prior to your renewal to ensure continuous cover is in force.
I appreciate that Mr W may have received amendment documents from Fresh by post in 
2018 when he made changes to his policy. But I dont think this means Fresh was 
unreasonable for sending the renewal information by email to Mr W. And I havent seen 
anything to show that Mr W asked Fresh to only communicate with him by post. 
I understand Mr W feels Fresh shouldnt have renewed his policy. But I think it gave Mr W 
proper notice of its intention to renew his policy. And as it didnt hear from him, the renewal 
went ahead. 
The DVLA document that Mr W provided is dated 8 April 2019 and records that he is no 
longer the registered keeper of the car. But the registration details are different to the 
registration details on the renewal notice. And as its dated after the renewal date of Mr Ws 
policy, I dont think it was enough for Fresh to ask the insurer to consider backdating the 
cancellation.
Fresh said that Mr Ws insurer charged him a separate cancellation fee of £30. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Fresh as the broker to charge its cancellation fee as it arranged the 
policy. But we dont generally think its fair for a consumer to be charged two sets of 
cancellation fees. So Mr W can contact the insurer directly about the cancellation fee they 
charged him. If he remains unhappy, he can ask us to look at things for him  as the insurer 
is a separate business to the broker, Fresh. 
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Fresh gave sufficient 
notice of its intention to renew Mr Ws policy. As Mr W didnt contact it until after the renewal 
date, I think Fresh charged its cancellation fees in line with its Terms of Business which it 
sent to Mr W before the policy started.
My final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
 
 
 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman