DRN-4266146
The complaint
Mr B complains that Next Retail Limited (NRL) has acted unfairly in relation to applying a 
charge to an account he has with it.
What happened
Mr B bought an item of clothing online from NRL. Mr B used finance provided by NRL to 
purchase the item. Mr B was dissatisfied with the item and decided to return it. By mistake 
he sent back the wrong item of clothing. However, NRL did not realise this at first because 
the label from the original item had been resewn onto the returned item. Once this error 
came to light, Mr B sent NRL the correct item and it in turn gave him a refund for the item.
However, a clause in the finance agreement between Mr B and NRL allows NRL to add an 
investigation charge to Mr Bs account in these circumstances, and initially NRL did add this 
charge to Mr Bs account. However, later, as a goodwill gesture, it refunded this charge. This 
left a credit balance of £20 on Mr Bs account which NRL also refunded.
Mr B objected to being charged the investigation charge in the first place and complained to 
NRL about this. In Mr Bs opinion NRLs staff had not been clear about why the charge was 
applied to his account. In particular, Mr B indicates NRL ought not to have levied the charge 
if it does not correlate to the time spent by staff on dealing with the return. And if this is what 
the charge covers then he wanted a breakdown of the costs incurred. 
In any event, Mr B also indicated this clause was hidden in the small print of the finance 
contract, so it was unfair for NRL to rely on this provision. 
Moreover, Mr B considered that NRL had wasted his time and caused him distress. Also, Mr 
B considered that in refunding the £20 credit balance that arose from refunding the 
investigation charge, NRL was conceding it had acted incorrectly. 
Therefore for all of these reasons, Mr B asked that NRL pay him £250 to compensate him for 
distress and inconvenience.  It appears that Mr B also asked NRL to close his account.
NRL responded that it was entitled to add the investigation charge to Mr Bs account, and it 
declined to pay Mr B £250. NRL closed Mr Bs account.
Dissatisfied, Mr B complained to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. Our investigator explained that this 
service only has the power to look at the part of Mr Bs complaint that relates to NRLs 
actions as a lender under a regulated finance agreement. Therefore this service only looked 
at this part of the complaint.
Our investigator did not recommend that Mr Bs complaint ought to be upheld.
NRL accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr B did not. Our investigator asked Mr B 
to tell us why he did not accept the recommendation, Mr B declined to give his reasons.
Mr B asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It does not seem that there is any dispute between the parties about the sequence of events 
that led up to the charge being imposed (i.e. the purchase of one shirt and subsequent 
return of two shirts). In any event, even if there was a disagreement about this, as we have 
already explained, wed have no power to look at that part of the complaint, as it is to do with 
NRLs actions as a retailer rather than as a lender under a regulated credit agreement. And 
this service can look at NRLs actions as a lender but cant look at complaints about NRLs 
actions as a retailer. Moreover, it is not clear if Mr B intends to complain about NRLs actions 
as a retailer as his communications have focused on the investigation charge (i.e. NRLs 
actions as a lender under a regulated finance agreement).
The crux of this complaint is whether NRL acted fairly in imposing the investigation charge 
and whether NRL ought fairly to pay Mr B £250 compensation as a result of adding this 
charge to his account.
Ive seen a sample copy of the finance contract between Mr B and NRL. Ive no reason to 
doubt this contract reflects the contract the parties signed. In any event, neither party is 
disputing this.  I think it is reasonable to assume, as a starting point, that when a person 
enters into an agreement  they understand the terms of the agreement and they are 
agreeing to be bound by them. The finance contract provides that NRL can add the 
investigation charge to Mr Bs account in these circumstances. Specifically it says:
If you return or attempt to return, substitute or alternative items when using our returns 
facility for any item an investigation charge of £35 will be added to the balance owing on 
your account.
Therefore on the face of it NRL was entitled to add the £35 to Mr Bs account. 
Mr B suggests that NRLs staff at various times did not explain why it was requiring him to 
pay the charge. In particular, Mr B wanted information to show that the charge equated to 
the staff costs NRL incurred in handling the return. But I think what charge NRL charges is a 
commercial judgement for it to make. Im not saying NRL can do whatever it wishes as long 
as it making its own commercial decisions. What Id say is we dont interfere if businesses 
are operating fairly, and Im satisfied this is the case here. Moreover, I dont find it 
unreasonable that the staff members were not able to tell Mr B whether the charge was 
linked to the amount of time spent on investigating the return. 
Further, Mr B indicates that NRL made it hard to know he was agreeing to the investigation 
charge when he contracted with it because the clause is hidden away in the small print. I 
dont agree, rather I am satisfied that the clause is in plain sight on page two of a four page 
agreement. Therefore I find that it is fair and reasonable that NRL can rely on the clause.In any event, as a goodwill gesture, NRL has refunded the investigation charge. But Ill add if 
NRL had not already done this, I would not have said it had to do this. In other words, Im 
satisfied that NRL has already done more than I think it was fair and reasonable to ask it to 
do. 
Also as a goodwill gesture, NRL refunded the credit balance which arose when it refunded 
the investigation charge. Mr B characterises the £20 refund goodwill gesture as an 
admission from NRL that it did something wrong. However, Id say it is quite the reverse. A 
business makes a goodwill gesture when it thinks it has done nothing wrong but decides to 
make a gesture in any case. Moreover, its a moot point as Ive already found that NRL did 
nothing wrong in applying the investigation charge to Mr Bs account. It follows that any 
action that flows from the refund of the investigation charge is not something that shows that 
NRL made a mistake, nor does it entitle Mr B to compensation. That said given that NRL 
closed Mr Bs account I would have expected it to refund any credit balance.
It follows from what Ive said above that I have no proper basis for saying that NRL needs to 
pay Mr B compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Therefore, for all of these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman