DRN-3083642
The complaint
Miss J has complained that a county court judgement (CCJ) was registered against her 
incorrectly and the delays that her motor insurance provider Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited (Hastings) caused having it removed.
What happened
Miss J was involved in an accident in April 2018 and her car was written off as beyond 
economical repair. Miss J made a claim for her loss under her motor insurance held with 
Hastings.
On 2 November 2018 Hastings received court proceedings from a third party making a claim 
against Miss Js motor insurance. Miss J also sent Hastings a copy of similar proceedings 
she had also received.
Miss J received a CCJ on 7 December 2018. Hastings settled the CCJ on 8 January 2019 
and a letter was sent by the third-party solicitor to the court shortly after acknowledging the 
payment had been received, so the CCJ could be removed. 
Hastings accepted it had made mistakes and should have been more proactive from the 
outset. If it had settled the third party claim more quickly a CCJ would not have been applied. 
In recognition of its mistakes Hastings paid Miss J £750 compensation.
A final response to the above issues and compensation offer was made in March 2020. As 
our Investigator explained, Miss J had six months from the date of this response to bring her 
complaint to us. As Miss J didnt bring her complaint to us in time, I am unable to consider 
the issues raised. 
However, Miss J made a separate complaint about different issues that were not covered in 
the final response letter in March 2020 that I can consider. I have included the above 
circumstances as it sets out the background that led to Miss Js second complaint.
Miss J applied for a mortgage several times and noticed she was unsuccessful. With further 
investigation Miss J realised the CCJ that should have been removed in January 2019 was 
still showing on her credit file.
Miss J complained to Hastings again. Hastings explained it had made the correct requests to 
have the CCJ removed when it responded to her first complaint outlined above. But it had 
received a letter from Registry Trust that it had not forwarded to Miss J. The letter explained 
Registry Trust had notified the credit reference agencies to remove the judgement from their 
files. The letter also stated that if the CCJ was still showing on Miss Js file after one week, a 
query would have to be made with the credit reference agency directly.  
Hastings acknowledged it should have sent the above letter to Miss J and offered £100 
compensation for not doing so. It also advised Miss J that she would need to contact the 
credit reference agencies directly to raise the query with them.
Miss J was not happy with the response provided by Hastings. She didnt think the offer it 
had made was fair considering the amount of stress and inconvenience its errors had 
caused her. Our Investigator considered Miss Js complaint but thought Hastings had offered 
a fair outcome, so he didnt ask Hastings to do anything more.
Miss J disagreed with our Investigators view, so this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained above, I am unable to look at everything Miss J has complained about. The 
CCJ being issued and Hastings first response to that complaint was referred to us too late. 
I am only able to consider what happened when Miss J realised the CCJ was still showing 
on credit reference agency files some time after it should have been removed, and the affect 
the actions of Hastings had on Miss J.
It doesnt appear that either Miss J or Hastings dispute the circumstances of Miss Js 
complaint. When Miss J made her second complaint, that the CCJ had not been removed 
from her file, it came to light that a letter sent to Hastings following the removal of the CCJ by 
Registry Trust should have been sent to her.
I have considered the content of the letter and can see that Registry Trust explains it has 
sent information to the credit reference agencies to remove the CCJ. However, it also states 
that if the CCJ is still showing after one week that a query would need to be raised directly 
with that agency.
I accept Miss J has experienced difficulties applying for a mortgage several times because 
the credit reference agencies did not update their files when Registry Trust asked them to, 
and that had Hastings sent her the letter Registry Trust had sent to it, she would have had 
the opportunity to check her file sooner. But it appears Hastings did update Registry Trust 
correctly, and Registry Trust did update the credit reference agencies, the credit reference 
agencies didnt then update their files.
Hastings made an error of not forwarding the letter sent by Registry Trust to Miss J, but I 
dont think this was the main reason the credit reference agencies files were not updated. I 
think the offer of £100 compensation in recognition of this is reasonable. So, Im not asking 
Hastings to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman