DRN-2221243
The complaint
Mrs R complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) settlement of her pet insurance claim. 
My references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Mrs R had pet insurance for her dog, insured with UKI. The policy covers vet fees up to 
£3,000 or 12 months (whichever is reached first) for each separate condition.
In mid September 2018 Mrs Rs dog was diagnosed with a UTI by her regular vet practice 
and prescribed an antibiotic as treatment. About 10 days later her dog returned to the 
practice with bleeding gums, bruising and blood in her urine.
Mrs Rs dog was referred to specialist vets. In October 2018 she was diagnosed with 
immune medicated thrombocytopenia (IMTP). The specialist treating vet stated it was 
unknown whether the IMTP was primary origin or secondary to the antibiotics used to treat 
the UTI. While at the specialist vet Mrs Rs dog was also diagnosed with diabetes and 
hepatopathy (increased liver enzymes) and UTI again.
Mrs R claimed for treatment of the four conditions, totalling about £6,000. UKI said all the 
conditions were linked as the treatments for some of the conditions caused the other 
conditions. So UKI applied the one annual condition limit of £3,000 to settle the claim.
Mrs R complained to us, represented by her daughter. She said the specialist treating vet 
had written to UKI that it couldnt be proved the four conditions were linked as the dog had 
other co-morbidities, such as obesity and age. Her regular vet agreed with the specialist vet 
and the specialist treating vets colleague also said no link could be proved.
Mrs R wants UKI to settle the claims on that basis each of the four conditions are separate 
conditions so four condition policy limits apply.
Our investigator said as UKI hadnt defined related conditions in the policy it couldnt fairly 
say a condition caused by the treatment of another condition meant those conditions were 
related, even if the treatment was the cause. She recommended UKI settle the claim on the 
basis that IMTP and hepatopathy were separate conditions and the UTIs and diabetes were 
related conditions.
Mrs R agreed. UKI disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said the policy 
definition of condition meant it could fairly say the conditions were related. It also sent a call 
recording it had with the treating specialist vets colleague. UKI said as the vet couldnt say 
what else would have probably caused the conditions in Mrs Rs dog its decision was 
reasonable.
Mrs R subsequently claimed for her dogs treatment for an adrenal nodule claim. UKI said it 
wasnt able to agree to any complaint about that claim joining this complaint. Our investigator 
correctly explained that if the parties were still in dispute about that claim the matter would 
need to be looked at as a separate complaint.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to partly uphold the complaint but with a 
different outcome and for different reasons than our investigator gave. I said:
My decision is about the claims for UTIs, IMTP, diabetes and hepatopathy. I need to decide 
if UKI fairly and reasonably settled the claim on the basis that those four conditions were 
related.
The policy pays up to £3,000 for each condition. The policy defines condition as:
Any injury or illness or any symptoms or signs of injury or illness, including related 
conditions or problems, no matter where these are noticed or happen in or on your 
pet.
The definition of condition includes related conditions or problems. So I think UKI could 
fairly say conditions were related, and apply one condition limit, if the evidence shows its 
more likely than not that the treatment for a condition caused another condition.
Theres a lot of medical evidence from both parties vet teams. Ill focus on the main issues 
to explain my decision.
Mrs Rs dogs treating specialist vet wrote to UKI that she was surprised it had decided all 
four conditions were related as:
It is not possible to prove these conditions are related, as they can all be seen 
completely independently from each other. It would be impossible to prove that (the 
dogs) UTI has led to her IMTP, especially given the fact that most cases of IMTP are 
primary. In addition, (the dog) could have developed Diabetes Mellitus due to other 
comorbidities, namely genetic predisposition and obesity, which are not related to the 
IMTP. Furthermore, there is no indication that any medication (the dog) was on could 
have led to her hepatopathy, which has resolved without stopping any medication.
Mrs Rs regular vet wrote to UKI that we defer to and fully support the vet schools opinion 
that there are no definitive links between the (four) conditions.
But UKI dont need to prove beyond all doubt that theres a link between conditions, it needs 
to show a link is more likely than not.
Ive looked at the treating specialist vets treatment notes and records from October 2018 to 
April 2019 (the last written evidence I have) as well as UKIs vet nurses comments. Ive also 
listened to the call between UKIs vet nurse and the treating specialist vets colleague who 
was aware of the issues, as the treating specialist vet had left the practice. Ill consider each 
condition in turn.
hepatopathy
UKI says the dogs liver readings were within the normal range in September 2018 and it 
was only after treatment of IMTP began that her liver started to react. UKI believes the liver 
problem was possibly related to the steroids for IMTP.
But the treating specialist vet is clear there was no indication that any medication the dog 
was on could have led to her hepatopathy, which resolved without stopping any medication. 
The treating specialist vets colleagues opinion was also that the liver problems wasnt due to the medication. And, as UKIs final response letter to Mrs R says, the specialist vet 
practices report of February 2019 gives an open dialogises for the liver issue and says its 
possibly related to the adrenal nodule.
I dont think UKI has shown the hepatopathy was more likely than not related to the IMTP or 
the other two conditions.
IMTP
The issue is whether the IMTP was related to the antibiotics that treated the UTI or the UTI 
itself.
All the treating specialist vet records Ive seen say the cause of the IMTP could be either 
primary (no underlying cause), which is most common in dogs, or secondary to the antibiotic.
The treating specialist vets colleague tells UKI in the phone call that the two conditions 
could be related but it was impossible to know the actual cause of the IMTP.
UKIs vet nurses say given the timing of the IMTP the two conditions are probably related. 
They note that the potentially problematic antibiotic was stopped and a warning given to the 
regular vet that given the possible link between that antibiotic and the dogs IMTP it was 
recommended the dog didnt receive that antibiotic in the future.
But I dont think the warning about the antibiotic means its probable the antibiotic did cause 
the IMTP. The warning was there was a possible link. While I understand UKIs point about 
the timing of the IMTP the treating specialist vet clearly told UKI that most cases of IMTP are 
primary and her colleague told UKI it was very rare to have a secondary IMTP.
Mrs R says her dog received the antibiotic at least twice for other matters in 2012 and 2018, 
with no adverse side effects. I havent seen the relevant vet notes but Ive no reason to 
doubt what Mrs R says in which case I think its more evidence that a link between the 
antibiotic and her dogs IMTP is unlikely.
UKI says its possible that the IMTP was caused by the UTI itself. But theres no evidence 
from the treating specialist vet that the UTI was the probable cause. The treating specialist 
vet doesnt reach a conclusion about what probably caused the IMTP over all the months 
she treated the dog. Her colleague said it was impossible to say the IMTP was caused by 
the UTI.
I think its reasonable for me to place more weight on the treating specialist vets evidence 
than on UKIs vet nurses evidence. The specialist vet saw the dog and dealt with the 
diagnosis and treatment. She had first-hand knowledge of the issues. UKI accept this is a 
complex case and I think its reasonable for me to accept the treating specialist vets 
evidence.
I think its more likely than not that the IMTP and UTI arent related conditions.
diabetes
UKIs vet nurses say the steroid given for the IMTP triggered the diabetes.
The treating specialist vet notes at the time say the diabetes was likely to have been caused 
by a combination of Mrs Rs dogs weight, the UTI and the steroids. The steroids were 
stopped, the dog had one injection of neutral insulin and the condition improved.Our investigator thought the steroids were prescribed for the UTI and linked the UTI with the 
diabetes on that basis. But UKIs nurses say the steroids were for the IMTP, and thats also 
my understanding. If Mrs R thinks the steroids were for the UTI she would need to get 
evidence from her vet to confirm.
I think UKI can reasonably understand that its more likely than not that the diabetes was 
related to the treatment for IMTP which means they were related conditions.
The treating specialist vet notes at the time also mention the UTI could have also been a 
factor. But as the evidence is the diabetes ceased when the treatment for IMTP stopped 
I think its fair for me to say the IMTP and diabetes were the related conditions rather than 
also the UTI.
UTIs
Mrs Rs dog was originally seen for a UTI. When she was being treated for the other 
conditions the UTI flared up again. The treating specialist vet notes say the UTI was possibly 
caused by hooded vulva and obesity.
Ive seen no evidence that the UTIs and the hepatopathy were related. Ive explained above 
why I dont think the UTIs and the IMTP were related and why its fair for me to say the UTIs 
and diabetes werent related.
outcome
The above means I dont think UKI reasonably said all four conditions were related so I dont 
think it was fair to apply one condition policy limit.
I think UKI reasonably said its more likely than not that the IMTP and diabetes were related 
and UKI fairly assessed those as one condition under the policy terms.
I think the dogs hepatopathy was a separate condition and the UTIs were one separate 
condition. UKI should reassess the claims on that basis.
Responses to my provisional decision. 
Mrs Rs daughter, on her mother behalf, said she agreed the UTI and hepatology issues 
werent related, but disagreed with my reasoning why the diabetes and IMTP were related. 
She said:
Mrs Rs dog had been diagnosed with pancreatitis, which affects the production of 
insulin, and also hepatology issues which could affect glucose levels in her blood. 
The steroid the dog was given has a half-life of 32 hours so by the time she required 
insulin most of the steroid would have already been excreted
prolonged use of steroids can result in diabetes but the dog didnt have prolonged 
use 
Mrs Rs vets said there was no test to prove that the steroids to treat the IMTP were 
connected to the dogs diagnosis of diabetes
as the flare up of elevated glucose levels in the dogs blood was only treated once 
then resolved Mrs Rs daughter thought it unlikely that linked the IMTP treatment and 
diabetes.UKI sent a further detailed vet nurse review of Mrs Rs vets evidence for each of the four 
conditions which it said supported that all four were linked. It agreed that the high dose 
steroids given to treat the IMTP caused the diabetic state which resolved once the steroids 
stopped. UKI also updated that it had settled Mrs Rs claim for the adrenal nodule as being a 
separate condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read both parties responses in detail but I havent changed my mind as to what I think is 
a fair and reasonable outcome.
From Mr Rs daughters response I understand she may have medical/veterinary training. 
But as she is Mrs Rs representative I cant take her opinion to be an independent expert 
opinion in this complaint. I note what she says, but ultimately the treating specialist vets 
notes at the time said the dogs diabetes was likely to have been caused by a combination of 
factors, one of which was the steroids for the IMTP. That expert evidence establishes the 
probable link between those two conditions. Although the treating specialist vet also gave 
the UTI as another likely factor Ive explained above why I think its fair for me to say IMTP 
and diabetes were the related conditions rather than also the UTI.
UKIs response gives more detail as to why it thinks the four conditions are related but its 
based on the treating vets records and reports Ive already considered in my provisional 
decision. I note UKI says the way the bodys immune system works means that if the dog 
had the relevant antibiotics before and not reacted she could still react on a different 
occasion. UKI also sent evidence of generic research on the link between hepatopathy and  
IMTP. But I dont think general research findings outweigh expert evidence thats specific to 
Mrs Rs dog.
The specialist treating vets reports at the time of treatment said there could be a possible 
link between the treatments and some of the other conditions but importantly she also gave 
other possibilities and didnt come to a conclusion about the probable cause for the other 
conditions. It also wouldnt be reasonable for me to ignore her or her colleagues subsequent 
evidence, summarised above, which in effect says its not possible for UKI to reasonably  
say there was a probable link between the other conditions. 
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont think UKI 
fairly and reasonably settled the claim on the basis that all four conditions were related.
I think theres sufficient evidence for UKI to say its more likely than not that Mrs Rs dogs  
IMTP and diabetes were one related condition. But theres not sufficient evidence for UKI to 
reasonably say the dogs hepatopathy and UTIs were probably also related.
Putting things right
UKI should reassess the claims on the basis that the dogs IMTP and diabetes were one 
related condition, the UTIs were one separate condition and the hepatopathy was a separate 
condition.
My final decisionI partly uphold this complaint. 
U K Insurance Limited must reconsider the claim on the basis that:
IMTP and diabetes were one related condition
the UTIs were one separate condition
hepatopathy was a separate condition.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman