DRN-2401515
The complaint
Miss S says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream, irresponsibly lent to her. She says 
she couldnt afford the repayments as she was in financial difficulty at the time. She also 
says she was in a vulnerable position when she borrowed from Lending Stream. Miss S 
thinks that Lending Stream should have found out about this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Miss S in April and 
May 2018.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm (days) date ended
1 25/04/2018 £500 182 03/05/2018
2 15/05/2018 £500 192 outstanding
Miss S needed to make six monthly repayments to both loans of varying amounts. The 
highest repayment to loan 1 was £220 and for loan 2 this was £212. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss S complaint. She thought that Lending Streams checks 
were reasonable and they showed that Miss S was likely to be able to afford the repayments 
she was committed to making.  
Miss S disagreed. She maintained that she was in financial difficulty when she took out the 
loans and provided her bank statements to support this. Our adjudicator didnt change her 
opinion of the complaint. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure Miss S could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  But the business should do more as time goes on, if Miss S 
income was lower or the loan repayments were higher and or more frequent. 
Additionally, there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Applying this to the circumstances 
of this particular complaint, I have reached the same outcome as our adjudicator, for 
essentially the same reasons.
Ive seen a record of the information Miss S provided when she completed her loan 
applications. Miss S said she had a monthly income of between £1,300 and £1,400 and she 
had regular monthly outgoings of between around £850 and £950. This left her with enough 
disposable income to make the monthly loan repayments. So, the loans wouldve seemed 
affordable to Lending Stream. 
Miss S has provided information that shows that she was in financial difficulty when she 
borrowed. I have looked at all of this and I dont disagree with this. But to uphold Miss S 
complaint because of this I need to be able to say that either Lending Stream knew about 
her problems, or it shouldve made a more in depth look at her circumstances to find out 
about them. 
Lending Stream has provided a copy of the some of the information it obtained from a credit 
reference agency after it carried out a credit check before the loans were approved. But this 
only shows that Miss S had some previous debt repayment problems some time before 
these loans were approved and I dont think knowing this, Lending Stream either had to 
carry out further checks or reject Miss S application outright. And, as Ive outlined above, the 
information Miss S suppled showed the loans were affordable. So, I dont think Lending 
Stream was aware of any of the problems Miss S was having. 
And Miss S only took two loans from Lending Stream and she repaid the first one early and 
without apparent difficulty. So I dont think the point was reached where Lending Stream 
shouldve been making more detailed checks due to the amount or size of the loans taken. 
And I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Lending Stream was made 
aware of any financial problems Miss S mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve 
prompted it to investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Lending Stream did for these 
loans were proportionate and I think its decision to lend for loans 1 and 2 was reasonable.
I can see Miss S feels very strongly about this and Im sure my decision isnt what she 
wanted. But I hope it doesnt cause any distress and that my explanation is helpful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman