DRN-1890535
The complaint 
Miss K has complained that National Westminster Bank (NatWest) didnt treat her fairly 
when her partner passed away. She has said that it continued to charge her monthly fees for 
a packaged bank account, called a Select Platinum account, and was wrong to do so. 
Miss K thinks that NatWest should refund her all the fees she has paid for the account since 
her partners death and add interest. 
What happened
Since around 2012, Miss K and her partner held the Select Platinum account in their joint 
names. In return for their monthly fee, NatWest provided them with several potential benefits 
including travel insurance and use of a car breakdown service.
Sadly, in March 2017, Miss Ks partner passed away. In the following months, NatWest 
placed the account into Miss Ks sole name but made no other changes. It continued to 
charge her the same fee and provide the same benefits. 
Miss K has told us that the crux of her complaint is that once the account  passed to 
(her) NatWest never informed (her) that it had a monthly cost associated with it due to the 
(benefits) it provided. She has explained that she didnt want or need the benefits and 
couldnt afford the monthly fee. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Ks complaint and didnt recommend 
that NatWest should give her any money back. Miss K didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Miss K and NatWest have told us or sent us about the 
complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why in a moment, but first I would like 
to express my sympathy to Miss K for her loss. I understand that this must be a difficult time 
for her, and I send her my condolences.
Miss K has told us that when her partner was alive, he handled most of their financial 
arrangements. There is no dispute that before his death NatWest had told him and Miss K 
jointly about the account fees and the benefits. Miss K has told us that her partner used the 
account and the benefits were fine. (She has mentioned that for some of the time he 
couldnt use all of the accounts benefits, but she has not complained about this specifically). 
It seems to me that there are two questions at the heart of this case. The first is whether 
NatWest behaved reasonably when it switched the account directly into Miss Ks sole name, 
rather than changing her to a different account; and the second is whether it kept Miss K 
informed about the account fees and the benefits, so she could decide what do. 
With respect to the first question, I think NatWests action was reasonable. The account was 
in joint names and so became the sole responsibility of Miss K. I wouldnt have expected 
NatWest to change anything without Miss K requesting a change. Any such action could 
have been against her best interests if, for example, she was relying on some of the 
insurance policies the account provided. 
With respect to the second question, I also think NatWest acted fairly. One of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys rules says that each year NatWest (and other banks) should write to 
customers with accounts like the Select Platinum to remind them about the important details 
of the insurance policies the accounts they provide, so that customers can check if they still 
want the accounts. These letters are known as Annual Eligibility Statements. NatWest has 
told us that it sent such letters to Miss K during April 2017, April 2018 and April 2019, and 
Im satisfied that it did. 
I have seen examples of the text in the letters, which were largely identical. The letters told 
Miss K about the monthly fees for the account and summarised the key features of the 
insurance policies that came with it. They asked Miss K to check the summary and to call a 
specific phone number or to visit one of NatWests branches if she didnt think the account 
was still right for her.
I understand that Miss K closed the Select Platinum account during November 2019 and so 
the letter from April that year was the last one. But it seems to me that the three letters were 
sufficient to keep Miss K informed about the cost and main benefits of the account, and to 
give her a choice about changing it.
Miss K has also mentioned that she may not have been eligible for the account; but I 
havent seen anything to make me think that was the case. Some of the accounts insurance 
policies did have eligibility rules and restrictions which could affect some account holders (for 
example, the travel insurance policy had restrictions which applied to people over an upper 
age limit) but I havent seen anything which affected Miss K; and furthermore, the letters 
described these rules and restrictions, so I think that NatWest met its obligation to tell Miss K 
about them.
Miss K has also mentioned that she felt vulnerable after her partners death and that English 
is not her first language. Once again, I extend my sympathy to Miss K for the position in 
which she found herself, but I still think that the actions NatWest took were reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Im not aware of the exact level of Miss Ks understanding of English, but I gather she has 
lived in the UK for quite a while and I dont think she asked NatWest for help with translation. 
So, in summary, whilst I sympathise greatly with Miss K, I think that NatWest behaved 
reasonably when it transferred the Select Platinum account into her sole name, and I think it 
met its obligations to keep her informed about the accounts cost and benefits. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss Ks complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 January 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman