DRN-2661795
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that his account switch with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) was 
unsuccessful.
What happened
Mr T applied for an account with NatWest. He was switching from an alternative provider and 
was expecting to receive an incentive of £125 for doing so. 
Mr T told us he received an account number and sort code before being transferred to a 
third-party site to upload his passport. He said the website informed him his upload had been 
successful, but that NatWest claimed the passport image wasnt satisfactory. So he wasnt 
able to switch to NatWest within the required timescale and didnt receive the switching 
incentive. Hed like NatWest to fully open the account, re-order the switch and pay the £125 
incentive. 
NatWest explained that the passport was rejected as no face was detected on the document 
and said there were no further attempts to upload. It later said, in its submissions to our 
service, that the passport photo was actually accepted on the second attempt, but that Mr T 
was required to upload a selfie to proceed with the application. It said that, instead of 
uploading a selfie, hed clicked on Quit and Unconfirm me which automatically caused the 
application to reject. So NatWest said thered been no bank error and didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He recognised that NatWest hadnt given Mr T 
the correct reasoning for why his application had been rejected, but he ultimately didnt think 
it had made an error in declining the application as he was provided with internal 
screenshots showing that Quit and Unconfirm me had been selected. 
Mr T disagreed. He said that he didnt select Quit and Unconfirm me and believes theres 
been an error with NatWests system. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr T, I dont uphold his complaint  
Ill explain why. 
What I have to think about here is whether the reason the switch was unsuccessful was due 
to an error on NatWests part. NatWest has provided a screenshot from its system which 
says, under a section called Warnings, Face score is too low and unable to determine 
selfie is LIVE. It also shows a breakdown of everything that was clicked on and the time it 
was done. At 14:50:11 it shows Mr T added his passport and that this was rejected at 
14:50:42. It then shows Mr Ts passport being added again a 15:04:46 and accepted at 
15:05:03. The system screenshots also show each time Mr T clicked save for later and, at 
20:14:57, it shows Selected: Quit & Unconfirm Me. So Im persuaded that, seemingly in 
error, Mr T selected this option  and I dont have sufficient evidence to the contrary.
Mr T believes that NatWests rejection of his passport was unreasonable, particularly as its 
worked when hes used it elsewhere. But I dont think it would be fair to say that NatWests 
system shouldve accepted the image just because it had been accepted elsewhere. The 
system relies on automated technology (and it wouldnt be for our service to ask it to change 
its process here, as this forms part of a legitimate commercial decision). The first passport 
submission wasnt deemed acceptable by the system for the reasons given above. But it 
was accepted on the second attempt. It also doesnt appear that Mr Ts application was 
ultimately declined because of his passport, but because it appears that he selected Quit & 
Unconfirm Me before the application was complete. At this point NatWest wouldve been 
wrong to allow the process to continue. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say that 
NatWest has made an error here. NatWest has said that Mr T can reapply for an account if 
he wishes to do so, but if an incentive no longer applies, I wouldnt ask it to pay this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman