DRN-4377001
The complaint
Mr S has complained that  Starr International (Europe) Limited (Starr)  has declined his claim 
for the loss of his mobile phone.
What happened
Mr S has mobile phone insurance provided by Starr through his network service provider. He 
initially contacted Starr on 22 May 2023 to report the theft of his mobile phone which he had 
purchased on 5 May 2023. He initially said that the phone had been stolen from his locked 
car, and he asked Starr to replace it. Starr acknowledged the theft of the phone and asked 
Mr S for a crime reference number and further information so that his claim could be 
validated.
Mr S then told Starr that the phone hadnt been stolen but had been lost between his car and 
a friends flat. In a three-way telephone conversation between Mr S, Starr and Mr Ss 
network provider, Starr accepted that the claim would be treated as a claim for loss rather a 
claim for theft. However, it has said that although whether a phone is lost or stolen might 
have a bearing on what information is requested to validate a claim, it doesnt have any 
bearing on the overall review and validation of the claim. It asked Mr S to provide a loss 
report. 
Starr maintains that Mr S has failed to provide certain information it asked him for as part of 
the verification of his claim, including a crime reference number and loss report or any 
explanation as to why these couldnt be provided. It also identified a number of 
inconsistencies in his account of the circumstances leading to the loss of the phone and his 
claim. For example, Mr S initially said that the phone had been  in its box, unopened, in his 
locked car from which it was stolen, and he realised it was missing when he returned to the 
car. 
As Mr S wasnt able to identify any forced entry to his car, he then said that the car may 
have been unlocked as his key fob may not have been working. He then said that he hadnt 
noticed that the phone was missing until the following day. Mr S then said that he had kept 
the phone in a bag in his car and he may have lost the phone between the car and a friends 
flat. 
Starr also says it had  concerns about the genuineness of letters from Mr Ss network 
provider provided by Mr S because of conflicting information these contained, and of a 
number of screenshots. Starr therefore rejected Mr Ss claim.
As Mr S wasnt satisfied with Starrs rejection of his claim, he complained to this service. Our 
investigators view was it was for Mr S to prove his loss and because of the inconsistencies 
in his account of events and his failure to provide information requested of him, Starr hadnt 
acted unfairly in rejecting his claim.
Mr S doesnt agree with our investigators view and so his complaint has been referred to me 
as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ss policy. In Section 8 it states that an insured item is not 
covered for:
(xiii)  Theft or loss as a result of the insured item intentionally being left unattended in 
plain sight or, intentionally left unlocked in vehicles, in public premises or public places;
(xiv)  Theft or loss if a police report has not been filed
(xv)  Theft or loss if you have not notified both the police and [network provider] of the 
theft or loss and blocked the SIM card, if applicable and provided evidence of this.
Mr S changed his account of the loss of his phone after being asked for further information 
about the circumstances of a theft from his locked car. He raised the possibility that his car 
had been unlocked due to a faulty key fob. Bearing in mind the exclusion from cover quoted 
at (xiii) above, I dont consider it unreasonable of Starr to have concerns about Mr Ss 
subsequent account of a loss in different circumstances. The policy also requires that a 
police report be provided in the event of theft or loss. Starr says Mr S hasnt provided one.
I also consider that it is reasonable for Starr to have concerns about the accuracy of 
information provided to it by Mr S. For example, Mr S has provided a letter from his network 
provider dated 8 May 2023, 14 days before the loss, and which gives the date of loss as 28 
May, 8 days after the reported loss.  
I consider that it is reasonable, and within the terms of Mr Ss policy, for Starr to require 
evidence of the circumstances of any loss to enable it to verify any claim arising, and that 
any requests for information are responded to honestly. In the circumstances, I consider that 
Starr has acted fairly and reasonably in asking for information from Mr S to validate his 
claim. Mr S has failed to provide information requested by Starr. Im also satisfied that Starr 
has other grounds for concern arising from inconsistencies in Mr Ss account of the loss and 
the accuracy of certain information he has provided. 
As I believe that Starr has acted fairly and reasonably in attempting to validate Mr Ss claim, 
and that its rejection of his claim is in accordance with the terms of his policy, Im not going 
to ask it to do anything on the strength of the information Mr S has so far provided.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman