DRN-3826379
The complaint
Mr K and Ms G complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim against 
their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr K and Ms G bought a single trip travel insurance policy 
underwritten by Great Lakes. They planned a family trip with departure and return dates 
of 2 April 2022 and 12 April 2022 respectively. 
Mr K, Ms G and family didnt board the outbound flight on 2 April 2022 because of 
substantial delay at airport security. They booked an alternative flight for 3 April 2022. 
That flight was cancelled so they booked another flight for 5 April 2022, which departed 
as planned. So, Mr K and Ms G arrived at their destination on 5 April 2022, instead of     
2 April 2022. 
On 9 April 2022, Mr K had an accident and injured his ankle. He required medical 
treatment. He says that he was confined to the hotel room for the final three days of the 
trip. 
Mr K and Ms G made a claim against their policy in relation to their missed departure, 
travel delay and abandonment, emergency medical and associated expenses, and 
curtailment of their trip.  
Great Lakes said that the circumstances of the missed departure arent covered by the 
policy but as a gesture of goodwill, it had considered the claim under the travel delay 
provisions, which led to the payment of £400. It calculated the delay from the original 
planned departure on 2 April 2022, to the actual departure on 5 April 2022. Great Lakes  
also paid part of the claim for emergency medical treatment. It didnt pay for out of 
pocket expenses such as food or the abandonment or curtailment of the trip. 
Mr K and Ms G didnt think that was fair. They expected reimbursement in relation to the 
parts of their trip they didnt use as planned as a result of the travel delay at the start of 
their trip and Mr Ks injury at the end of their trip. Mr K and Ms G want Great Lakes to 
compensate them for their financial loss and the poor service they received. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Great Lakes 
had acted unfairly. The investigator said that Great Lakes had settled the parts of the 
claim in relation to travel delay and emergency medical treatment. He said that the policy 
covers loss of holiday, but that Mr K hadnt satisfied the terms of cover, as he hadnt 
provided evidence that he was confined to his accommodations on the orders of his 
treating medical practitioner, as required by the policy. So, he didnt think that          
Great Lakes had acted unfairly in declining that part of the claim. 
Mr K and Ms G didnt agree with the investigator. Mr K said, in summary:
The policy doesnt say what unused proportion of a holiday amounts to 
abandonment. If he hadnt booked an alternative outbound flight at his own 
expense, he wouldnt have been able to use the remaining part of the holiday. 
So, he should be compensated for the costs associated with the unused part of 
the holiday. 
The medical report hes provided is from an emergency on-call doctor who 
wouldnt draft a document in legal language in order to satisfy an insurance 
claim. In effect, the doctor advised him to stay in the accommodation and in a 
wheelchair. He didnt leave the accommodation as he was in a wheelchair and in 
pain. 
Great Lakes declined the claim for missed departure. It dealt with the claim under 
travel delay/abandonment following the cancelled flight on 3 April 2022, which is 
covered by the policy. 
He suffered a genuine loss of holiday and couldnt do anything as he was 
confined to a wheelchair. 
The investigator considered what Mr K said but didnt change his view. Mr K asked that 
an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considerable sympathy for Mr K and Ms G. Their trip didnt proceed as planned through 
no fault of their own. Ive considered carefully what happened here and whether Great Lakes 
treated them in accordance with the policy terms and fairly and reasonably. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
this complaint because I dont think that Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Mr K and Ms Gs policy provides cover for missed departure if they arrive too late 
to board their pre-booked, scheduled flight for certain, specified reasons. They 
didnt arrive too late to board their flight on 2 April 2022 and, in any event, the 
reasons for late arrival covered by the policy arent relevant here. So, I dont think 
that Great Lakes was at fault in declining the claim for missed departure. 
Mr K says that Great Lakes dealt with the claim under the travel delay and 
abandonment provisions following the cancelled flight on 3 April 2022. Thats not 
quite right. Mr K and Ms Gs policy covers unavoidable delay in departure of at 
least 12 hours from their original scheduled departure time on their outward journey 
- so from their departure time on 2 April 2022 - as a result of certain specified 
reasons which didnt arise here. Great Lakes dealt with their claim under this part of the policy as a gesture of goodwill and calculated the delay from the departure 
time on 2 April 2022. I think that was more than it was required to do.
Mr K says that Great Lakes should deal with his claim under the abandonment 
provisions. The policy doesnt define abandonment, so Ive proceeded on the basis 
of the ordinary, everyday meaning which is the act of leaving or stopping 
something without intending to return to it. Mr K and Ms G didnt abandon their trip, 
they rescheduled their outward journey for a later date. I dont think that           
Great Lakes was at fault in declining to treat Mr K and Ms Gs trip as abandoned. 
For Mr K to have a successful claim for loss of holiday, hed have to show that he 
was confined to his hotel room due to his injury on the orders of his treating 
medical practitioner. The medical report dated 9 April 2022 provided by Mr K says 
that he suffered an ankle injury, that he should use a wheelchair and go to hospital 
for an x-ray, assessment, and care. It doesnt say that he should be confined to his 
hotel room. I dont think that Great Lakes was at fault in declining the claim for loss 
of holiday. 
Mr K and Ms Gs policy defines curtailment as returning home before the 
scheduled return date. Mr K and Ms G returned home as planned on 12 April 2022, 
so they didnt curtail their trip, as defined by the policy. Ive also thought about 
whether Mr K and Ms Gs trip was effectively curtailed from the date of Mr Ks 
injury. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was. Theres nothing to suggest that 
Ms G and the children couldnt continue with the trip or that Mr Ks mobility issue 
was such that it would be fair and reasonable to proceed as if hed returned home 
before their scheduled departure date. 
Great Lakes paid part of Mr Ks claim for emergency medical expenses. Theres an 
exclusion in the policy in relation to the cost of any food or drinks. I think that   
Great Lakes was entitled to rely on that. 
Mr K and Ms G complain about the service they received from Great Lakes. They 
submitted their claim in mid-April 2022. Great Lakes settled the claim in part on    
11 May 2022. Thats slightly longer than wed expect a claim to take but                
Mr K and Ms Gs claim was more complex than usual. In all the circumstances, I 
dont think that there are any grounds on which I could fairly direct Great Lakes to 
pay Mr K and Ms G compensation in relation to service issues.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman