DRN-3039168
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy as he says Metro Bank PLC returned an international payment that his 
sister paid to him.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr M received an international payment into his account for £709.07 from his 
sister. Metro got in touch with Mr M to understand more about the payment and asked for 
documentation to support their checks before they could release the funds. Mr M provided 
the information required and the funds were released on 25 March 2020.
Following this Mr M got in touch with Metro by email and he says he also visited the branch 
as he was concerned a separate transfer for £712.09 hadnt been received into his account. 
As he hadnt received a response to his concern, he called Metro on 29 April 2020.
 
Metro explained they had no record of receiving the further payment and in order for them to 
look into it further his sister would need to get in touch with her bank. 
Mr M referred his concerns to this service. During the investigators review Mr M provided a 
transaction slip showing the payment made to him. However, upon presenting this to Metro 
they said they were unable to trace it with that information. They maintained for them to do 
anything more the sending bank would need to do a trace.
Our investigators opinion was that Metro could have provided a better service in responding 
to Mr Ms emails but overall she felt Metro didnt need to anything more. As Mr M remained 
unhappy it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr M and Ive explained my reasoning below.
Metro said they were unable to locate any information about a transfer into Mr Ms account 
for £712.09 and as they had not made the payment this restricted their ability to trace it. 
They advised Mr M to contact the sender to follow it up, this was so the sending bank could 
put a trace on it. 
From what I understand, it would be problematic for Metro to trace the payment as they 
didnt initiate the transaction. So, it wasnt unreasonable of them to direct Mr M to the 
sending bank. I understand Mr M feels Metro returned the payment but as Metro had 
previously held and accepted payment from the same source I find it unlikely they would just 
return it. And if this were the case Id have expected them to have a record of it.
 
I havent seen any information to show Mr M has taking this further with the sending bank. 
Or any evidence that shows the payment was received by Metro and returned. Mr M 
provided a photo of the transaction slip showing the payment being made but, as Metro 
explained, this isnt enough for them to be able to look into it further. Even though the 
transaction slip shows the payment to Mr M this doesnt mean Metro received and returned 
it. Its possible it was held by an intermediary and returned. As a trace hasnt been initiated 
by the sending bank, it isnt unreasonable that Metro bank have taken no further action.
Mr M was also unhappy with the service Metro provided. He said they didnt respond to his 
emails or help him in branch. He provided evidence of the emails he had sent to Metro 
seeking help. 
Metro said they had no details recorded of Mr Ms visit to branch and they hadnt been able 
to confirm receipt of the emails sent to their customer liaison team. But having considered 
the emails, they explained that they had got in touch with Mr M initially in relation to the held 
payment. As there was no notification of a further held payment there was no reason to 
correspond further with Mr M.
Whilst I can understand this, I think Metro should have acknowledged Mr Ms emails. The 
emails Mr M has provided were sent before and after he spoke to Metro on 29 April 2020. 
There were two emails that went unanswered between the 26 March 2020 and 29 April 2020 
and whilst I think Metro should have acknowledged these, I dont think it would have made a 
difference to the actions Mr M took. I say this because even after Mr M spoke to Metro and 
was advised they werent holding a payment and given details of what he needed to do for 
Metro to look into things further, he sent a further two emails to them in May and June 2020 
chasing the payment. From what I can see he hasnt taken any further action, as advised, to 
understand what happened.
I understand Mr M was in financial difficulties at the time and said he had to sell personal 
items as a result of the returned payment, Im sorry to hear that. But overall, Im satisfied 
Metro havent held the payment for £712.09 and have been clear with Mr M about what he 
needs to do if he wants them to assist in finding the reason the funds were returned to his 
sisters account.  They should have acknowledged Mr Ms emails but for the reasons 
explained I dont think this would have changed things.
My final decision
For reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman