DRN-2900518
The complaint
Mr W complains about the amount Admiral Insurance Company Limited paid him after he
made a claim on his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen. Reference to Admiral
includes its agents.
What happened
Mr W entered into a lease agreement on June 2020. The lease was to run for 36 months. 
The car was stolen in October 2020, so Mr W made a claim to Admiral for the loss. 
Admiral agree to settle Mr Ws claim but said the most it needed to pay was the outstanding 
balance on the finance agreement.
Mr W didnt think this was fair and complained. He said he paid a large upfront payment 
when entering into the lease agreement and thinks this should be considered. Admiral didnt 
change its stance. It said the policy made it clear that the most it needed to pay was the 
remaining balance left on the finance agreement.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into Mr Ws complaint and recommended it be upheld. He thought that whilst the policy 
made it clear that the most Admiral need to pay is either the market value of the car, or the 
outstanding balance on the finance agreement, he didnt think this led to a fair and 
reasonable outcome. He thought the additional upfront payment should be taken into 
consideration when settling the claim. He thought Admiral should pay Mr W £2,707.70.
Mr W agreed. Admiral agreed to our investigators principle but disagreed with how the 
settlement figure was calculated. It agreed it needed to pay Mr W something in light of his 
upfront payment on the lease agreement. But it thought it only needed to pay him £1,700.03. 
No agreement was reached between our investigator and Admiral, so Admiral asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
In June 2021 I issued a provisional decision setting out what I intended to require Admiral to 
pay to settle Mr Ws claim fairly. I explained why this amount differed from the amount our 
investigator recommended. Those findings form part of this decision, so Ive copied them in 
below.
In the provisional decision, I also invited Mr W and Admiral to provide anything theyd like me 
to consider. Mr W agreed in principle but thought my calculation didnt take into account 
three monthly payments Mr W had made to the finance company. Admiral didnt agree and 
maintained its offer of £1,700.03 was all it needed to pay for the reasons it had already set 
out. Admiral also pointed out what it thought was an error in the percentage of the 
agreement Mr W had had use of.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im thinking of upholding Mr Ws complaint. But my reasoning is slightly 
different to that of our investigator. And what I intend to require Admiral to do to put things 
right for Mr W, also differs.
Mr Ws policy with Admiral says the most it will pay on any claim is the market value of the 
car. But the policy also says: If you have acquired your car through a lease or contract hire, 
we will pay the lease or contract hire company either the market value of the car, or the 
amount to settle the agreement, whichever is less.
In Mr Ws case, the market value of the car was roughly £31,000. But the outstanding 
balance on the lease agreement was £22,999.64. So based on the terms of the policy, 
Admiral paid the finance company the remaining balance, minus the policy excess. But, I 
dont think thats a fair outcome in the circumstances of this case. This is because Mr W 
would lose out if his claim was settled like this.
Mr W took out a lease agreement to run for 36 months. And as part of that agreement he 
paid a larger upfront payment. Generally speaking, the larger the upfront payment, the 
smaller the monthly payments will be over the length of the agreement. So if a car is 
damaged or stolen, simply settling the outstanding balance of the finance agreement doesnt 
always lead to a fair outcome as is the case here. This is because essentially, Admiral will 
have to pay less on the claim, because Mr W paid a larger upfront payment.
I think a fair outcome in this case is that Admiral should pay Mr W a proportionate amount of 
the upfront payment based on how long was still remaining on the lease agreement.
Mr Ws agreement was for 36 months
His first payment was £3,023.03 which was to be followed by 35 payments of 
£335.89
This means in effect, Mr Ws first payment included the first months payment. 
Meaning that his overall additional, upfront payment was £2,687.14
The car was stolen 98 days into the 1,095 day agreement  0.089% of the 
agreement
Mr W essentially has made use of 0.089% of the upfront payment  or £239.16
Admiral should pay Mr W the difference between the upfront payment (£2,687.14) 
and the amount of that payment Mr W had use of (£239.16)  totalling £2,447,98.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, Im thinking of upholding Mr Ws complaint. And to put things 
right for him, I think Admiral should:
Pay Mr W £2,447.98, and
Add 8% simple interest onto this payment. Interest should be calculated from the 
date the claim was settled with the finance company, to the date this payment is 
made to Mr W.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has questioned whether the monthly payments he made have been taken into account 
when calculating the above settlement. They have. But Admiral dont need to reimburse him 
for the contractual monthly payments he made to the finance company. Those were 
payments he was contractually obligated to make and he had use of the vehicle in return for 
making those payments.
But as explained above, by paying a larger upfront payment, hes lowered the monthly 
payments over the course of the agreement. The additional payment was £2,687.14, and 
this amount effectively was used to lower the 36 monthly payments. But as Mr Ws car was 
stolen 98 days into the agreement, hes not had the full benefit of that additional upfront 
payment. And its the unused part of that additional upfront payment that I think its fair 
Admiral pay Mr W in settlement of this claim.
Admiral are correct in pointing out that the percentage quoted above is incorrect. 98 days is 
8.9% of the agreement, not 0.089%. However, this doesnt change the amount Admiral 
needs to pay. The incorrect percentage has been quoted, but the correct percentage has 
been used to calculate the settlement. 8.9% of £2,617.14 is £239.16. 
Admiral has said its calculation is based on the daily rate of the agreement multiplied by the 
days Mr W had the car for. It said its then deducted this from the advanced payment. But 
this doesnt take into account the monthly payments Mr W had already made and paid to the 
finance company. Doing so would result in the same figure our investigator reached, which 
as I explained above wouldnt be quite right.
Therefore, my final decision is the same as the one reached in my provisional decision, for 
the reasons set out within it and explained further above.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Ws complaint. To put things right I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr W £2,447.98, and
Add 8% simple interest onto this payment. Interest should be calculated from the 
date the claim was settled with the finance company, to the date this payment is 
made to Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman