DRN-3667129
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about a loan that they say was mis-sold to them by GE 
Money. That loan was subsequently taken over by Arrow Global Limited (Arrow), so it is 
responsible for answering this complaint.
What happened
In July 2006, Mr and Mrs B entered into a trial membership agreement with a timeshare 
provider. The membership was funded using a loan from GE Money. The timeshare provider 
was named as the intermediary on the loan agreement.
In April 2007, Mr and Mrs B made a further purchase from the timeshare provider for a 
different type of membership. This was also funded by a point of sale loan from GE Money 
and included the consolidation of the remaining balance of the loan taken in 2006. As with 
the earlier loan, the timeshare provider was named as the intermediary on the loan 
agreement. It was this loan that was taken over by Arrow in 2016.
On 28 May 2020 Mr and Mrs B complained to GE Money about the loan taken in July 2006. 
They said it appeared the timeshare provider was not permitted or authorised to arrange 
loans and this was in breach of section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). They said this alleged breach caused them to suffer a loss and they were entitled 
to recover any sums paid under a prohibited agreement. GE Money responded by saying the 
loan had been sold to Arrow and it forwarded on the complaint. Arrow reviewed the 
complaint and concluded it had been raised too late under the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) six and three year rule and rejected the complaint without considering the merits.
In March 2021, Mr and Mrs Bs professional representative (PR) brought the complaint 
about Arrow to our service.1 It said the timeshare provider was not authorised to broker the 
loan and also raised further points about the timeshare, including that it had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs B and that they were pressured into entering the agreement. 
PR made reference to a number of legal provisions that it said entitled Mr and Mrs B to 
compensation.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that, although Arrow is a 
regulated business, it hadnt granted the loan, so it wasnt responsible for answering the 
complaint about the status of the timeshare provider as a broker. Instead, the investigator 
found that the activity of debt collection was carried out by Arrow, an activity that does fall 
within our jurisdiction. She didnt make any findings on the merits of any complaint about 
debt collection. Mr and Mrs B disagreed, so the matter was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision as I came to a different conclusion to our investigator, so I 
gave both parties the opportunity to respond to what I thought before I issued a final 
decision. In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments provided by Mr and 
1 The original complaint made in May 2020 was made by Mr and Mrs B directly, so I dont know 
whether PR were involved with their complaint at that time.
Mrs B and Arrow to decide whether we are able to consider this complaint. And when 
there are parts of the complaint that can be considered, Ive looked at all of the 
evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B raised their complaint directly with GE Money in the first instance, 
saying they thought the broker of the loan was unauthorised. They didnt raise any 
further points. GE Money answered the complaint by forwarding the letter to Arrow. 
After receiving the final response from Arrow, PR raised further issues with our 
service about the actions of the broker, amongst other things.
As Mr and Mrs B had only raised the issue of the status of the broker in their original 
complaint, and not any other points, I dont think our service can make any findings 
on the points raised by PR after Arrow issued the final response. Those specific legal 
claims and related concerns have never been made to Arrow to consider. Mr and 
Mrs B need to make those claims to Arrow and give it a chance to respond before 
our service can consider whether there is any dispute.
Although it appears both GE Money and Arrow have answered the complaint as if it 
was made about the loan taken out in April 2007, the complaint letter and the letter to 
our service only refer to the loan taken out with GE Money in July 2006. The crux of 
the complaint is the same for both loans, so I have considered whether Arrow needs 
to answer a complaint about either of the two loans.
The loan taken in July 2006 was never passed to Arrow as the agreement ended 
when it was consolidated into the loan taken in April 2007. Part of what was 
borrowed in July 2006 was refinanced into the second loan, and therefore became 
part of the loan taken over by Arrow. So effectively Arrow did ask for payment of 
some of the sums loaned in July 2006.
However, lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question 
wasnt an activity our service had jurisdiction to consider until 6 April 2007. So I am 
unable to consider a complaint about how the earlier loan was granted.
I can see Mr and Mrs B took out the second loan on 18 April 2007, which means the 
loan was sold after our service had jurisdiction to consider complaints about this type 
of lending. It follows, I think this part of the complaint does fall within our jurisdiction. 
But Arrow has said the complaint falls outside our jurisdiction as it was raised out of 
time.
There are set rules (the DISP rules in the FCA Handbook) that determine the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. The DISP Rules explain that 
consumers must bring complaints to our service within certain time limits.
The rules I must apply say that, when a business doesnt give us consent to consider 
a complaint, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after whats been 
complained about, or if later, more than three years after the complainant (in this 
case, Mr and Mrs B) knew, or ought reasonably to have known they had reason to 
complain (DISP 2.8.2R).
Mr and Mrs B say the second loan wasnt sold properly because the broker wasnt 
properly authorised. This means Mr and Mrs B had six years from the date that GE 
Money decided to lend to them to complain under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(a). The second 
loan was sold in April 2007, so Mr and Mrs B had until April 2013 to bring their 
complaint about the second loan. But they didnt complain until May 2020. So, its clear the complaint was made more than six years after the event Mr and Mrs B are 
complaining about.
But DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six years 
to complain, as long as they complained within three of when they were aware, or 
they ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to. Mr and Mrs B say 
they only became aware they could complain in 2020 when they first instructed PR 
and the complaint was made within three years of this date.
I think for Mr and Mrs B to have been aware, they would need to have known there 
was a problem, and this problem caused them a loss, that this was the responsibility 
of another party and that party was Arrow. In this case, I think Mr and Mrs B would 
not have had cause to believe the loan might have not been brokered by an 
authorised broker until they came into contact with PR  I dont have any evidence to 
suggest Mr and Mrs B should have questioned the authorisation earlier. So, I think 
the complaint was brought in time and I do have the power to consider it.
Ive also considered whether Arrow can be held responsible for any acts and 
omissions at the point of sale. Having thought about this, I think Arrow did assume 
responsibility for the loan in June 2016 when it took over the collection of the loan 
repayments from GE Money. At this point it was asking for repayments under a 
regulated loan agreement. Whether that loan was properly brokered and arranged in 
accordance with section 19 of FSMA is plainly something that can be considered  if 
I were to think the broker wasnt properly authorised and the correct formalities not 
followed, it could be the case that Arrow were not entitled to ask for further payments. 
So I think Arrow should have considered this complaint.
But I also think I have sufficient information to go on to consider Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. At the time of the second sale, the regulation of consumer credit 
businesses was undertaken by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and businesses 
undertaking this work would have OFT licences. The regulation of this moved to the 
FCA on 1 April 2014. I have seen that the timeshare provider held OFT consumer 
credit authorisation at the time of the second sale. So, I dont there was any breach 
of section 19 of FSMA when the loan was arranged.
I have thought about PRs argument that there would be a breach of section 19 of 
FMSA if, whilst acting as broker, the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature 
and quality of the timeshare agreement. However, I dont think that argument is right. 
Section 19 of FSMA is simply a provision that states that a person must be 
authorised to undertake a regulated activity, which the timeshare supplier was on this 
occasion. The concerns that it misrepresented the product sold is dealt with in other 
provisions that Mr and Mrs B can rely on when making a claim for damages against 
the timeshare supplier and/or GE Money and/or Arrow. It also follows that I dont 
think Arrow has done anything wrong by seeking repayment of the second loan and I 
dont intend to uphold the complaint.
Arrow did not respond to my provisional decision.
PR, on behalf of Mr and Mrs B, sent a substantive response disagreeing with what I had 
said. In summary, it argued:
My provisional decision didnt deal with the substantive issues of the 
misrepresentations suffered by Mr and Mrs B. It was argued that I was duty bound to 
consider the misrepresentations to reach a fair and reasonable decision.
Arrow treated the original complaint as one of the mis-sale of the loan, so it would not be in keeping with my obligations pursuant to s.228(2) of FSMA not to consider 
everything that was raised by PR.
I was directed to case law where it was held that our service doesnt have to simply 
follow the law, but an ombudsman must determine what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Applying that to Mr and Mrs Bs case, PR said:
Furthermore, pursuant to the judgment of Irwin J in R (Williams) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2008] There is a wide latitude within which the 
ombudsman can operate. As such, to fail to consider a complaint in 
circumstances where the respondent, in this case Arrow, has considered it 
was facing a mis-selling complaint, which inevitably encompasses section 
140 and section 75 of the CCA, is not in keeping with your regulatory 
obligations.
PR has said that I have taken an overly technical approach to the complaint and 
offered up lines of defence not relied upon by Arrow. It is said there is therefore an 
incomplete assessment of the complaint.
As debt collection is something that out service is able to consider and Mr and Mrs B 
continue to owe money to Arrow, I should consider the underlying arrangements that 
give rise to the ongoing obligations. I was directed to an extract of the judgment in 
Doran v Paragon Finance [2018] that PR said assisted Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It was 
said that the events complained about include matters that gave rise to the 
complained of debt collection.
The timeshare provider was not an entity in its own right, rather it was a brand name, 
and so could not have held an OFT license.
PR has also said that it is not clear how a vendor company can also be a credit 
broker, as that would create a conflict of interest under the FCAs Statement of 
Principles for Business and would be inconsistent with the duty to treat customers 
fairly. 
The timeshare provider breached CONC 2.5.8R of the FCA Handbook in the way it 
arranged the loan by making statements that amounted to incentives, therefore 
amounting to an unfair business practice. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point when considering any complaint referred to this service is to think about 
what I can and cant consider. The complaint handling rules within the FCA Handbook (DISP 
Rules) are central to this determination.
Complaint is a defined term within the FCA Handbook and is set out in the Glossary. The 
part relevant in Mr and Mrs Bs case defines a complaint as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on  
behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, 
claims management service or a redress determination, which:
(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, 
material distress or material inconvenience; and
(b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with 
whom that respondent has some connection in marketing or providing 
financial services or products or claims management services, which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
DISP 1.4.1R sets out certain things that a business, here Arrow, must do when receiving 
complaints. In particular it must investigate and assess the subject matter of the complaint. 
And once it has investigated the complaint, it must send a final response setting out its 
position on the complaint and saying that the complaint can be referred to our service.
DISP 2.8.1R states that an ombudsman can only consider a complaint if the respondent, 
here Arrow, has already sent the complainant, here Mr and Mrs B, its final response or eight 
weeks has passed since the respondent received the complaint (unless the respondent 
consents to the complaint being considered without first giving a final response). 
If a complaint is referred to our service and has not been considered by the respondent, we 
would normally refer the complaint to the respondent (DISP 3.2.2R). However, this does not 
apply where a final response has been issued.
Finally, when I determine a complaint I must do so by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case (DISP 3.6.1R).
The letter of complaint
I think it would be of assistance to set out in full the letter of complaint sent to GE Money by 
Mr and Mrs B. It reads:
Dear Sirs,
Account Number: [****]
Re:
Serious Concerns
We have had cause to study our previous loan documentation from GE Money, 
which we have read with some interest. We note that the intermediary recorded on 
our loan agreement is [the timeshare provider]. Following enquiries made with the 
Financial Conduct Authority, it would appear that [the timeshare provider] were not 
permitted or authorised to arrange loans as prohibited by section 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). This is most concerning for us, especially 
since we understand that section 26 of the FSMA makes allowances for recovery of 
monies paid under a prohibited agreement.
We kindly ask that you explain your position on this, as it seems to us that your 
arrangement with [the timeshare provider] was contrary to FSMA and has therefore 
caused us significant losses.
We ask that you respond to this correspondence, explaining yourselves, in no later 
than 28 days from your receipt of this letter. If we do not hear from you with a 
satisfactory response by this date, we will seek specific legal advice on this issue and 
also complain, if appropriate, to the FCA, as regards your conduct.
We await hearing from you.
Yours faithfully,
[Mr and Mrs B]That was the totality of the complaint that was made to GE Money (and forwarded on to 
Arrow). It is plain what this complaint was about  whether the timeshare provider held the 
correct authorisation to arrange loans was required by s.19 FSMA. It is also plain what this 
letter of complaint is not about  namely any misrepresentation or other concerns with the 
underlying timeshare. That complaint was not, and has not been, made to Arrow (or GE 
Money).
Arrow sent a final response (as required by DISP 1.4.1R) explaining that it thought the 
complaint had been made too late.2 So Arrow considered and responded to the actual 
complaint that had been made.
PR sent our service a referral on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf. That referral referred the complaint 
about how the loan was brokered, but it also raised a number of other issues about the sale 
of the timeshare, including setting out alleged misrepresentations that induced Mr and Mrs B 
to take it out. In addition, reference was made to a potential claim under s.140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and several judgments were cited in support.  
What complaint has been referred to our service
My provisional decision set out my thoughts on the complaint that the loan had been 
brokered by an intermediary without the right authority to do so. That complaint had been 
made to Arrow, Arrow had given its final response to the complaint and then it was properly 
referred to our service. I explained why I found that I could consider the complaint as it had 
not been brought too late under DISP 2.8.2R and I cant see it is now in dispute that I have 
the power to consider this complaint.
However, Ive not considered any complaint about the other things mentioned by PR or 
about any of the legal claims Mr and Mrs B may have against Arrow. That is because those 
matters have never been raised with Arrow directly, so it has never had the chance to 
consider them and give its final response.3 I also dont think that because Arrow said it was 
dealing with the complaint made as a mis-sale complaint, that means it was accepting that 
it had considered every possible complaint about how the loan was arranged. Further, as 
Arrow had properly issued its final response to the complaint that had actually been made to 
it, I see no reason for our service to tell Arrow to consider the other matters raised later 
under DISP 3.2.2R. 
PR has correctly said that our jurisdiction is an inquisitorial one and that there is a wide 
latitude in which our service can operate. In my decision I have focused on the nature and 
substance of the complaint made to Arrow, but I dont think I need to consider other matters 
to determine the substance of that complaint  namely, the regulatory status of the 
intermediary. Im satisfied that my decision is a fair and reasonable outcome of that 
complaint.
Ive also thought about the point that as debt collection is something that our service is able 
to consider, and Mr and Mrs B continue to owe money to Arrow, I should consider the 
underlying arrangements that give rise to the ongoing obligations. But the complaint made 
was that Mr and Mrs B didnt have any obligations to repay the debt as it hadnt been set up 
following the appropriate formalities and I have considered that. The new argument 
advanced is that there are no obligations to repay due to the misrepresentations and other 
2 I set out in my provisional decision why I disagreed with Arrows position on this. I have not seen 
anything to change my thoughts on this issue.
3 Mr and Mrs B are free to make whatever claims directly to Arrow that they feel are appropriate and, 
as I have not considered the claims made in PRs letter to our service, they can refer any dispute to 
our service for further consideration.problems with the timeshare. But again, that is not the complaint that was made to Arrow, so 
I dont think its right for me to consider it further.
In conclusion, I have considered the complaint that was made to Arrow and subsequently 
referred to our service. I dont think it would be fair for me to consider any other complaints 
that Arrow has not had the chance to consider first.
Was the broker authorised?
PR argues that the broker couldnt have been authorised as the name on the loan 
agreement was a trading name, so as it wasnt an entity in its own right, it couldnt hold an 
OFT license. But OFT licenses were held by entities that traded under different names and 
records were kept of different trading names too. I dont find this surprising as many large 
companies trade under different names to the actual registered company name. In this case 
the loan was brokered by a business with OFT authorisation and PR has been provided with 
details of the OFT authorisation. Yet, PR still hasnt provided any evidence that the loan was 
brokered outside of the appropriate authorisations, or explained why it thinks that was the 
case even. For these reasons, I cant see that there was any contravention of any relevant 
regulatory provision simply because a trading name was recorded on the loan agreement. 
PR has also said that any vendor selling goods and/or services couldnt properly act as a 
credit broker without creating a conflict of interest and acting against the FCAs Principles. It 
also pointed to parts of the FCA Handbook (CONC) that it says were breached by the broker 
during the sales of Mr and Mrs Bs loan. But as the act of arranging the loan wasnt regulated 
by the FCA at the time of sale, these provisions and Principles didnt apply, so Ive not 
considered them further.
However, the timeshare provider did need to follow the relevant OFT guidance from the time 
when it brokered the loan. So Ive thought about whether there were any breaches of any 
guidance and, if there were, could Arrow now be responsible for those breaches.
I cant see any OFT prohibition on a broker also selling good and/or services, which were to 
be paid for using the loan. Im not surprised by that as the point of sale loan market is 
longstanding. I also cant see how, in Mr and Mrs Bs particular circumstances, any conflict 
of interest arose  the timeshare provider was not acting on their behalf when arranging the 
loan nor was it giving any advice about the appropriate loan to take. The overall transaction 
was a simple one  Mr and Mrs B bought a timeshare from the provider and at the same 
time they took out a loan to pay for it. 
I have also thought about the argument that the timeshare provider had made an improper 
incentive whilst brokering the loan. I cant see that argument relates to the issue of whether 
the broker held the proper authorisation, so I make no finding on that point.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Arrow Global Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman