DRN-3742695
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as M has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down 
its business interruption insurance claim for losses arising from the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr G, a director of M, has brought the complaint on Ms behalf. 
What happened
M held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. M claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19.
.
Covea turned down Ms claim. It said while the policy covered a list of specified diseases, 
Covid-19 wasnt one of them.
Unhappy with Coveas response, M brought its complaint to us. 
Our Investigator looked into Ms claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
M asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ms business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Covea has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ms claim.
Damage
The core business interruption cover within the policy covers:
loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the business carried on by you at 
the premises in consequence of any damage occurring at the premises to any property 
insured used by you at the premises for the purposes of the business.
The policy defines damage as loss, destruction or damage unless otherwise excluded.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage 
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of 
potential damage. I havent seen anything to indicate that Ms loss was caused by loss, 
destruction or damage to property. It follows that I think its fair and reasonable for Covea 
to say theres no cover under this section of the policy.
Prevention of Access
This provides cover for loss caused by:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of damage to property 
within 1 kilometre of the premises which prevents or hinders the use of or prevents access 
to the premises but excluding damage to property of any public utility from which you 
obtain supplies or services.
Therefore, for cover to apply under this section, Ms business interruption would need to be 
as a result of loss, destruction or damage to property within 1 kilometre of Ms premises 
preventing or hindering the use of or access to the premises. Again, I havent seen any 
evidence of such loss, destruction or damage.
Compulsory Closure
This covers:
Interruption or interference with the business in consequence of compulsory closure by a 
public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises arising from
a)Discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises
The definition of notifiable human infectious or contagious disease is a list of 
specified diseases which doesnt include Covid-19. The policy goes on to say:
No other disease shall be added to the above list without our prior consent.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out in the definition, Im not persuaded this section 
of the policy provides M with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the 
specified diseases. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something 
Covea might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present 
pandemic. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. 
Ms policy on the other hand sets out a list of the diseases which are covered by the policy 
and makes it clear that the insurer is not intending automatically to provide cover for other 
diseases. I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these 
particular diseases only. There are many potential diseases that the policy does not cover. 
And although Ive considered that the policy doesnt specifically exclude Covid-19, I dont 
think it can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the 
defined list set out in the policy. Ive also considered that policyholders might feel business 
interruption policies should provide cover in uncertain circumstances such as this. And I 
agree that there are policies that would have provided cover for things like a pandemic but 
this isnt one of them.
Generally, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for us to require an insurer to fund a claim for 
risks it hasnt envisaged - whether or not those risks are unpredictable. And whilst I appreciate that M couldnt have predicted that it might need pandemic cover, Covea cant be 
held responsible for not covering a claim where the policy doesnt provide for it.
The fact that Covea has now changed the policy wording to exclude Covid-19 doesnt mean 
that the policy wording in force at the time as Ms claim was ambiguous or meant to be read 
as covering Covid-19.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr G. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman