DRN-3301643
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax approved debit card payments 
that took him into an unarranged overdraft and then recorded a default on his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr M had a current account with Halifax and had previously complained about his balance 
entering an unarranged overdraft. On 13 February 2017 Mr Ms debit card was used to 
complete various transactions with the same merchant. As a result, Mr Ms account balance 
entered into an unarranged overdraft. Mr M didnt use his account again. 
Halifax went on to send Mr M monthly statements and contacted him about the overdrawn 
position of his account. Halifax sent Mr M correspondence about its intention to close and 
default his account if no payments were made. Halifax closed the account in May 2017 and 
reported a default on Mr Ms credit file. 
Last year, Mr M complained to Halifax and said the default was unfairly recorded on his 
credit file. Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and said the payments were correctly 
approved and it was Mr Ms responsibility to ensure he had funds available. Halifax paid Mr 
M £50 for delays in responding to his complaint. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Halifax had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr 
M didnt agree and said Halifax shouldve done more to stop his account balance going 
overdrawn. Mr M also said hed raised this issue previously and Halifax had upheld his 
complaint. As Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, his complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ms view that the way Halifax administered payments made with his debit 
card caused him to enter into an unarranged and forced overdraft. I can see Mr M had no 
overdraft facility on the account and that hed previously raised concerns after his balance 
became overdrawn. In November 2016, Halifax agreed to refund £90 as a gesture of 
goodwill after Mr Ms account entered an unarranged overdraft. 
Whilst I understand Mr Ms concerns, Halifax has provided an explanation of why 
transactions were approved despite no funds being available. In this case, Halifax has 
pointed out Mr M made lots of separate payments to the merchant on the date in question. 
The final four payments took Mr M into an unarranged overdraft. Halifax said the merchant 
didnt take the step of checking whether Mr M had sufficient funds to cover the payments 
before they were processed because of the amounts involved. As Mr M authorised the 
payments, Halifax says it made them in line with his instructions. But the effect of that, meant 
Mr Ms account entered into an unarranged overdraft. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent been persuaded Halifax treated him unfairly. I 
appreciate Mr M didnt mean for his balance to become overdrawn, but as he authorised the 
payments Im satisfied it was reasonable for Halifax to approve them. As Halifax approved 
the payments in line with its account terms, I think it was reasonable for it to ask Mr M to 
repay the outstanding balance. 
Halifax didnt apply any interest or charges to Mr Ms account. I note he stopped using it after 
the payments in question were made. Halifax continued to send Mr M monthly statements 
and wrote to him requesting contact to discuss the outstanding balance. Halifax went on to 
issue a formal demand and close Mr Ms account  recording a default on his credit file. Im 
satisfied that Halifaxs approach was fair in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. 
Whilst I know my decision will disappoint Mr M, I havent found that Halifax treated him 
unfairly. Im satisfied Halifaxs decision to close Mr Ms account and record a default on his 
credit file was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint but it offered him £50 to apologise for the delay in 
responding. I think thats fair in all the circumstances. As Im satisfied Halifax has dealt with 
Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman