DRN-2347773
The complaint
Mr G has complained about his property insurer Ageas Insurance Limited because it 
has declined a claim which was made when the property was burgled.
What happened
Mr G owns a property which was unoccupied. It later became occupied by his son and 
daughter-in-law. The policy, offered by Ageas as a catch-all to offer cover for various 
owner/occupier scenarios, was amended accordingly. Later, via an automated process, 
Mr Gs broker added cover for contents items.
Subsequently there was a burglary at the property. Damage was caused which Ageas 
resolved, but a claim for jewellery was also made. Ageas asked Mr Gs son who owned 
the jewellery and he said it all belonged to him and his wife. Ageas then declined the 
claim on the basis that tenants belongings arent covered by the contents section which 
only applies to property of the landlord/property owner (with some cover for tenants 
fixtures and fittings but not personal belongings).
Mr G was unhappy. Mr G (senior) and his wife said that the jewellery belonged to them, 
so the claim should be considered on that basis. However, Mr G also pointed to the 
policy schedule as it was felt that an endorsement included in the schedule showed that 
jewellery belonging to Mr Gs son was covered.
The endorsement in the policy schedule says (emphasis as per the document):
We will only pay for the portion of Contents which belong to You or Your Family.
The policy booklet then offers definitions for the words Contents and You. But there is 
no definition given for Your Family. Even though the bold emphasis suggests that a 
definition is available. Mr G argues that his son is his family so his items are covered.
Contents  Household goods and personal property, within the Home, which are Your
property or which You are legally responsible for.
You / Your / Insured  The person or persons named in the Schedule, Your 
domestic partner, children, Your Family, Domestic Staff and any other person all of 
whom are permanently living with You and are not paying commercial rent.
Ageas reviewed its decision. Internally it debated the topic: one head of underwriting felt the 
policy wording was unclear and the claim would need to be accepted. Another argued that 
regardless of the schedule  the definitions set out in the policy booklet were clear and the 
endorsement in the schedule didnt effectively change any of them. Ageas issued a final 
response declining the claim and Mr G complained to this service.
Our investigator explained that we couldnt make a decision about who owned the 
jewellery. He said that rather we need to consider if Ageas had acted fairly. He felt it had.
Mr and Mrs G objected. The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
I felt the complaint should be upheld. I set out my reasons for this in a provisional decision to 
which both parties have now responded. Mr G said he had nothing to add. Ageas objected to 
my findings  in short it beleives the policy is clear. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Who owns the jewellery in question is clearly disputed. Mr and Mrs G say it is theirs but 
this clarification only came, according to Ageas, after the claim was declined. In contrast 
Ageas says it was told (and Ive seen the email) by Mr and Mrs Gs son, who live in the 
property as a tenant, when asked who owned the items, that all the items belonged to him. 
Our investigator has explained that we cant decide who owns the jewellery  that we need 
to decide if Ageas acted fairly when it declined the claim on the basis that tenants 
belongings arent covered. On that basis, and accepting Ageas view that Mr and Mrs Gs 
son owned the items, I dont think it did act fairly.
I think that when the head of the underwriting department for the insurers agent says (in 
summary) the policy wording isnt tight or clear enough to restrict the cover to what we 
intended to cover, we reasonably need to cover this claim, I cant fairly ignore that. Part 
of the role of the underwriting department is to set and assess risks and ensure the 
policy is applied in line with the risks the insurer has chosen to be liable for and which it 
has tried to communicate within its policy documents. The opinion of such a person, on a 
topic like this, reasonably has to be seen to carry a lot of weight.
That said, Ageas internal underwriting department sought to challenge that view. Ive 
considered its responses in reply but I dont find them persuasive. Essentially the 
responses come down to other wording within the policy makes it clear that tenants 
property is not covered. Whilst that may be true it doesnt change the fact that the policy 
schedule, via endorsement J06, suggests jewellery belonging to family members, in 
addition to jewellery belonging to you and your family normally living with you will be 
covered. Nothing else in the policy documentation corrects that reading.
Ageas will know that where part of a policy is unclear, this service will find it fair to apply 
an interpretation that is favourable to the policyholder. That is because they did not draft 
the unclear terms. Mr Gs property was broken into, jewellery belonging to his son, who 
occupies the property, was stolen. His son is a family member and, whilst he and his 
father do not live together, given the policy endorsement J06, there is cover for that 
jewellery. Therefore, it is my view that Ageas decline was unfair and unreasonable, it will 
now have to consider the claim.
Ageas decision has clearly caused Mr G some upset. Im satisfied that compensation 
is fairly and reasonably due.In reply Ageas said it strongly objected to the finding that its policy wording was 
unclear as the policy, in its view, is not ambiguous; it clearly explains that belongings 
of tenants or family members that dont usually live with the policyholder arent 
covered. It said that it had included its internal correspondence for transparency 
which reflected that the matter had been discussed  but ultimately it had been 
agreed that the policy was clear. The problem, Ageas said, had really arisen because 
of failings by the broker and it wasnt fair for the complaint to be upheld against it.
I understand Ageas reasoning for thinking that the policy is clear. But I was aware of that 
reasoning when I issued my provisional findings. I dont think its fair to say the matter was 
resolved internally on agreement of all concerned  it seems to me its rather that Ageas  
as the senior/controlling party  stated its view and that was accepted/followed. I am not 
considering the brokers actions here, so have no view on what it did. In short, nothing 
Ageas has said in response to my provisional findings has given me cause to change them. 
My provisional findings now form part of the findings of this, my final decision.  
 
Putting things right
I require Ageas to accept the claim for Mr Gs sons jewellery and consider settlement 
for it under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. I also require it to pay 
Mr G £150 compensation.
My final decision
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set out at putting things right 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman