DRN-2651229
The complaint
Ms M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined her claim for 
malicious damage following the attempted theft of her car. 
What happened
Ms M holds a motor insurance policy with Admiral. In January 2020, after noticing her 
speedometer and air vents had been smashed; and unable to insert her key fully into the 
ignition, Ms M reported the attempted theft of her car to Admiral. She also noted there was 
mould on the seats and dashboard, and said the drivers door was unlocked.
Admiral arranged the collection and delivery of Ms Ms car to its authorised repairer. But the 
repairer reported to Admiral that they could see no signs of forced entry, and the extent of 
the damage caused, would deem the car a total loss. They also said it was likely a door or 
window had been left open in order for mould to be present inside the car. So, presented 
with this information, Admiral referred the matter to their damage consistency team.
Around three weeks later, Admiral wrote to Ms M saying they had instructed an independent 
assessor to review the car, and if all was in order, they would authorise repairs. But three 
days after this, the independent assessor also said there were no signs of forced entry, and 
said the car may have been left unsecured. So, with two reports now showing no sign of 
forced entry, Admiral concluded the most likely means of access to the vehicle was through 
an unlocked door, and chose to decline Ms Ms claim. Unhappy with this Ms M complained.
Ms M said, amongst other things, the car was locked, so the claim should be covered. She 
also said Admiral misled her by saying that if all was in order they would authorise repairs, 
when theyd had a report already suggesting repairs may not be covered. She was also 
unhappy with the overall service provided. 
Admiral considered Ms Ms complaint, but said from the evidence provided the most likely 
means of entry into the car was through an unlocked door, and there was no cover under the 
policy in such circumstances. But they accepted the letter they sent couldve been misleading. 
So they offered to pay £170 to compensate Ms M for poor service; delays in addressing her 
complaint; and her call costs. Unhappy with this, Ms M brought her complaint to us.
An investigator considered the complaint and thought £170 was fair compensation for the 
service issues Ms M experienced. But he thought it wasnt unreasonable for Admiral to 
decline Ms Ms claim, as there was no cover under the policy where a vehicle had been left 
unlocked. And based on both the initial repairer and independent assessors findings, it was 
not unreasonable for Admiral to conclude it had been. So he did not uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Following the opinion, Ms M instructed her own assessor, who reached different findings to 
Admirals. These included a considerably lower estimate for repair costs; and concluded that 
the steering column and ignition had not been damaged, contrary to Admirals report. They 
also shared their opinion on possible points of entry, and shared this with Admiral.
Admiral said it appeared their engineer was unable to get the key into the ignition and start 
the car, and therefore concluded there was damage to the ignition and steering column. But 
they now accept this was wrong. So they offered to increase the compensation to £250 due 
to this. But they maintained that the car would not have been repaired even if the costs were 
as stated in Ms Ms report, as they stood by their decision to refuse the claim. 
The investigator thought this was fair. But Ms M remained unhappy. So the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has set out her position at length and Id like to thank her for taking the time to do so. 
But my findings will concentrate on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. So while I have considered everything, I may not explicitly address each and 
every point Ms M has made. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy. 
The key points for me to consider when looking at this case are; was there cover under the 
policy for the damage caused to Ms Ms car as a result of the attempted theft, and if so, what 
redress is due. And; were there failings in the overall service levels provided by Admiral, and 
if so, is the compensation Admiral offered Ms M fair to address those failings. 
Looking firstly at whether Ms M was insured for the damage caused to her car, section 2 of 
her policy sets out that  if your car is lost or damaged as a result of fire, lightning, theft or 
attempted theft, you will be covered for the loss or damage to  your car and your cars 
standard accessories and spare parts whilst in or on your car. 
Its not in dispute that an attempt was made to steal Ms Ms car, and that the damage to her 
car was caused by that attempt. So, from the outset, it appears an insured event had taken 
place for which Ms Ms policy provided cover.
But section 3 of the general conditions of cover titled Care of your vehicle, says that You 
or any person covered by the policy must: protect your car from loss or damage. If an 
incident happens, and you or any person covered by this policy fails to protect your car from 
loss or damage through: your car being left unlocked or unsecured, no cover under the 
policy will be provided and instead our responsibility will be restricted to meeting the 
obligations as required by Road Traffic Law.
Ms M has maintained throughout that her car was always kept locked, whereas Admiral 
have argued to the contrary. So, in instances like this where its unclear, I first need to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened. I appreciate Ms M is unhappy with 
phrases such as may, suggests, it is possible, and appears as she feels these are not 
conclusive, and I can understand that. But our service is not the same as a court where 
cases are to be decided beyond a reasonable doubt, but is instead to decide cases on the 
balance of probabilities, and therefore, what is most likely.
While Ms M has throughout maintained that her car was kept locked, Admirals authorised 
repairer said that in his professional opinion, there was no sign of forced entry, and from the 
mould present inside the vehicle, this could have only occurred if a window had been left 
down or door being left open to allow water inside the vehicle. And that instructing an 
independent engineer to comment on any other means of entry would be helpful. The independent engineer Admiral appointed said in conclusion that they also found no 
signs of forced entry. And they would suggest it is possible that the vehicle had been left 
unlocked for a person or persons unnamed to have gained entry to the vehicle. And that the 
insurer may wish to consider that they have no liability for the claim, on the basis the car 
may have been unsecured at the point of entry. 
I appreciate Ms M has questioned the independence of Admirals independent assessor. But 
as the investigator has rightly pointed out, this role is independent; this is long established in 
the motor insurance industry and the assessor would be paid either way. So from what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that they acted as an independent assessor. 
While I accept that Ms M truly believes her car was locked at the time, and Im not 
questioning the integrity of her statement in any way, on the other hand, I have two reports 
from Admiral, one of which is independent, both commenting on it being likely or possible 
that the car was left unlocked and that this was how entry to the car may have been gained. 
So I think the initial opinion reached by the investigator based on this was a fair one. 
Following the investigators opinion Ms M appointed her own engineer. And I accept, as she 
has rightly set out, there were several differences in the findings reached by her engineer 
when compared to Admirals. But the key point for me to consider from this evidence is what 
was the most likely means of access to Ms Ms car. 
Ms Ms engineer, while his findings differed in many areas, also concluded that there was no 
sign of forced entry into the car and that the door locks were in working order. He did note 
that he could not access the rear tailgate, and speculated on how this may have been a way 
of access for a potential thief; but he also said that having spoken with several manufacturer 
dealers, none had come across cars of this type being broken into by that method. 
He did also note that the dealerships had heard anecdotal evidence of electronic devices 
being used to unlock vehicles without damaging locks, and therefore could not rule this 
possibility out. But equally, he did not conclude, or say that any of the dealerships felt that 
this was the most likely means by which entrance was gained to Ms Ms car in this instance.  
From the evidence provided, its clear theres no definitive answer as to exactly how access 
was gained to Ms Ms car. But all three reports, (including Ms Ms) suggest no sign of forced 
entry. We know mould was present in the car at the time the attempted theft was reported, 
suggesting the car had potentially been left unused and exposed to the elements for some 
time; this is further supported by the fact that at the time the incident was reported, the cars 
MOT had expired seven weeks prior. Two out of three reports have suggested access to the 
car may have been gained through it being unlocked/unsecured; and Ms Ms engineers have 
not set out a more persuasive theory as to how access was gained. So based on all the 
evidence provided to Admiral, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to decline Ms Ms 
claim for malicious damage, on the basis her car was likely left unlocked or unsecured at the 
time of the attempted theft. So Im not asking them to do anything more in this respect.  
Ms M is also unhappy about differences in findings between her report and Admirals. And I 
can see there are a few. But as Im persuaded it was reasonable for Admiral to decline Ms 
Ms claim, I dont think these differences are relevant, as they relate mostly to damage, 
which I am satisfied is not covered under the policy. So Ive not looked into these any further. 
Ms M has said that she was left without a car throughout this claim and feels that a courtesy 
car should have been offered. But the policy states that If the damage to your car (excluding 
glass, lock or hood damage) is covered under this policy and your car cannot be driven 
safely from the accident site, we will arrange for our approved nationwide Vehicle Recovery Operator to: give you a courtesy car while your car is being repaired in our body shop, 
unless we decide your car is beyond economic repair.
In this instance, repairs were not being carried out, as set out in the policy term, as Admiral 
at this stage were of the opinion that the damage to Ms Ms car was not covered under the 
policy. And this is required in order to for a courtesy car to be provided. So Im satisfied that 
Admiral was not required to provide a courtesy car in this instance for this reason. 
Turning to the overall service provided. Ms M said she perceived Admiral telling her that she 
would need to report the incident to future insurers as intimidating. But its highly likely Ms M 
would have to report this matter to future insurers, as most insurers will ask about previous 
incidents regardless of whether claimed for or not. And if Ms M failed to notify a future 
insurer about this incident when taking out a policy, its likely to have an impact on her ability 
to claim under the policy if this was later discovered. So I think it was good practice for 
Admiral to explain this to Ms M at the time of her claim. 
Ms M was also told following the first repairers assessment, when Admiral appointed an 
independent engineer, that providing all was in order they would authorise repairs. I 
appreciate why this may have not been the best wording to use, given that the first review 
carried out by the Admiral repairer suggested the claim may not be paid. However, this was 
an independent review. And as Admiral have pointed out, may have resulted in a different 
outcome. So when taking that into account, while potentially somewhat misleading given 
what we know now, I dont think this advice was necessarily wrong at the time.
Ms M also had to make several phone calls in relation to her claim and was kept on hold for 
some length of time. And she received a lack of updates on the progress of her claim. I 
appreciate this must have been frustrating for Ms M, as it does seem that there were some 
delays throughout the handling of her claim and subsequent complaint. I can also see that 
Admiral have accepted what seems to be an error on the first independent engineers report 
regarding the steering lock and ignition not working. So given these points, and the others 
Ms M has raised, I dont think the service Admiral provided is what Ms M should come to 
expect.
However, Admiral have recognised there were shortfalls in the level of service they provided, 
and have apologised and offered Ms M £250 in total to recognise its service failings. And I 
think given the circumstances, this is a fair offer, so I wont be asking Admiral to increase it. 
I appreciate Ms M may not be happy with this outcome. But I hope Ive been able to 
demonstrate that I have taken her concerns seriously in reaching this outcome, and Im 
pleased to see from Ms Ms own assessor that she may be able to get her car back on the 
road for less than it initially seemed.
For the reasons explained above, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. I understand that Ms M 
has already been paid the original £170 compensation. So Admiral should pay the remainder 
of the £250 compensation its agreed to (£80).
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint. And Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
should pay Ms M £250 in compensation less any payments made in this respect so far. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Brad McIlquhamOmbudsman