DRN-3124498
The complaint
Mr A complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited trading as Assurant wouldnt settle 
his gadget and mobile phone insurance claim. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Mr A has gadget and mobile phone insurance though his bank account, insured by Assurant. 
He made a claim on the policy for his phone, tablet, AirPods and accessories which he said 
were lost or stolen when he was on holiday.
Assurant asked Mr A to provide evidence of ownership and usage of the devices. He 
provided evidence for the tablet and AirPods but they showed the name of third parties, not 
Mr A.
Assurant asked Mr A for a screenshot of his iCloud account to show the devices were 
registered in his name but Mr A said he was unable to access the iCloud account. As 
Assurant could see from the relevant system that the phone claimed for was in lost mode it 
asked Mr A for the automated email from the manufacturer he would have received, which is 
sent directly to the account holder after a device is placed in lost mode. Mr A said he couldnt 
provide the email.
Assurant closed the claim as it said on the evidence Mr A had provided the claim couldnt be 
validated.
Mr A complained to us. He said he hadnt received the email from the manufacturer and it 
was unfair for Assurant not to pay his claim just because he couldnt access his iCloud 
account. Hed bought a new phone and iPad and wants Assurant to pay his claim.
During our investigation Mr A sent us further documents which he said supported his claim. 
Our investigator passed these to Assurant to assess who said it still thought the claim wasnt 
validated.
Our investigator said Assurant acted fairly in declining the claim. Mr A disagrees and wants 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Assurant has acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. I dont 
uphold the complaint.
The policy details what Assurant needs to see as Mr As proof of ownership for the devices 
hes claiming and also says :
We may ask for additional information and documentation in order to assess your 
claim.
This could include documentation to show when the device was last used, when any 
loss or theft was reported to your network, or to verify your identity. We will confirm 
what is required, if anything, during the claims process.
Assurant was clear to Mr A that it concerns about the claim and I think it acted in line with 
the policy terms and reasonably in asking him for various documents to try to validate the 
claim.
There are inconsistencies in the documents Mr As provided to support his claim. In 
summary the documents showing proof of purchase or usage either had the username 
covered up or werent in Mr As name and showed email and residential addresses different 
from Mr As details. Mr A provided an address document for his partner but there were also 
inconsistencies with that.
Mr A told our investigator that the devices were in different names because he had a bundle 
deal with his contract provider which meant he could register multiple devices and get 
additional benefits. But the policy says:
What you are covered for
This policy provides worldwide cover for mobile phones and gadgets owned by the 
named account holder or family members who live at the same UK address as you (a 
family member is defined as your spouse/partner and also children under age 18, or 
under age 23 if in full time education, and they are living at home outside of term 
time).
Mr A hasnt provided evidence that the people named on the proof of purchase and/or usage 
evidence are family members as defined by the policy, and as Ive said the information he 
provided for his partner had inconsistencies.
Mr A has now provided screenshots of online chat with the phone manufacturer but I dont 
think that helps validate his claim. When Assurant checked the proof of usage information for 
the phone claimed for it saw the phone had been placed in lost mode in October 2020, 
around the time of the claim. But the screenshots Mr A has now provided dont show the 
phone in lost mode. Assurant says that means the screenshots arent for the phone claimed 
for. As Ive seen no evidence to explain that inconsistency I think Assurant can reasonably 
reach that conclusion.
Overall I think Assurant has reasonably concluded Mr A hasnt provided sufficient proof that 
he owned some or all of the devices when the claim incident he reported happened. 
Assurant has acted fairly in declining the claim on the information it has.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman