DRN-3114242
The complaint
Ms S complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly increased the credit limit on
her credit card account to unaffordable levels.
What happened
Ms S says Aqua repeatedly increased the credit limit on her credit account to unaffordable
levels. She says she was in debt at the time with a poor credit history. Ms S would like the
debt written off and all interest and charges refunded. She would also like an apology from
Aqua and says her health suffered as a result of what took place.
Aqua says the account was opened in 2014 and it carried out appropriate checks on it. It
says Ms S declared an income of £20,000 and checked her unsecured debts which were
£1,100. Aqua says Ms S had a mortgage and the last adverse information on her credit file
was some three years before the application. It approved a credit limit of £1,200. Aqua says
it increased the credit limit in July and December 2015 to £2,800 and carried out appropriate
checks but accepts it should not have increased the credit limit again in July 2016. It has
refunded interest and charges in respect of that and says the debt owed which has now
been sold is just over £2,200.
Ms S brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator
thought Aqua should have considered how Ms S used her account before the credit limit
increases and thought they were unaffordable. The investigator thought Ms S had exceeded
her credit limit and missed required payments. She recommended Aqua pay £50
compensation and refund interest and charges on all increases over and above the original
credit limit of £1,200.
Aqua doesnt accept that view and maintains Ms S account was appropriately managed.
I asked both sides for further information and for Aqua to provide the account statements.
Ms S confirmed that her partner paid the mortgage and has provided her bank statements.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and said that I thought that Aqua carried out 
appropriate checks on the application itself and the credit limit increases were appropriately 
considered as well as being affordable.
I said lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on 
any lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type 
and amount of the lending or credit. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for
example a mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Aquas checks to have been as
detailed as for that type of lending.
I looked at Ms Ss application and saw that she declared an income of £20,000. I was
satisfied that Aqua carried out checks on the application and calculated Ms Ss unsecured
debt at just over £1,000 and considered that Ms S had a mortgage which would have meant
more detailed checks on her finances had been carried out by that lender. I could also see 
that Aqua considered Ms Ss credit file and could see the last adverse information recorded 
on it was over three years prior. So, I was satisfied that Aqua carried out reasonable and
proportionate checks on Ms Ss application and that on the face of it the lending was
affordable. I also thought a relatively modest credit limit of £1,200 was approved.
I looked at how Ms S managed her account before the credit limit increases and I was
satisfied overall, she managed her account appropriately. I accepted the management 
wasnt perfect, but I thought overall required payments were made and that the credit limit 
increases up to July 2016 were affordable. I also looked at Ms Ss bank account statements 
and didnt think there anything to suggest financial difficulties between 2014 and 2016 and 
that she maintained, on the whole, a positive account balance. So, I was satisfied that Aqua 
did carry out further reasonable and proportionate checks on Ms S before deciding to 
increase the credit limits. And that on the face of it the increases were affordable. I could see 
that Ms S was able to use her account for foreign travel at that time and that prior to the July 
2016 increase there was nothing to suggest the previous credit limit increases were 
unaffordable.
There is no question here that Aqua shouldnt have increased the credit limit in July 2016.
But Im satisfied Aqua has refunded interest and charges.
I appreciated that Ms S would like the account balance written off. But I made clear to her 
that even if I upheld her complaint then I wouldnt have ordered that as I think she has had 
the benefit of the money. I also made clear to Ms S that I have looked at her credit file and 
thought overall her financial difficulties took place sometime after she opened her Aqua 
credit card account and after the credit limit increases in question.
Overall my provisional view was that Aqua carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
on Ms Ss credit card application and on the two later credit limit increases. I said I thought 
the limit of £2,800 which was applied in December 2015 was on the face of it affordable and 
relatively modest in comparison with Ms Ss debt and income at that time. I also made clear 
that I appreciated the investigators view that she thought Ms S was also responsible for a
mortgage which Ms S has now confirmed was actually paid by her partner.
Nether Ms S or Aqua wish to comment on my provisional view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same overall view that I reached in my provisional view 
and for the exact same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman