DRN-2322242
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way BUPA Insurance Limited handled her private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known by both parties. So I have only provided a 
brief summary of it below and have made no mention of points which fall outside of this 
complaint. 
Mrs C complains that Bupa underpaid on one of her insurance claims by £50, leaving her to 
pay the outstanding amount. She says Bupa also sent her a cheque for £225 without any 
explanation, and was rude and unhelpful when she queried it. And she says she had to 
contact Bupa a number of times to receive a complete renewal pack, causing her worry and 
uncertainty about the cover her policy would be providing. 
Bupa says it paid the full invoice for Mrs Cs claim. It acknowledges it sent the cheque in 
error, but says it didnt ask Mrs C for the money back. And it says the full renewal pack was 
sent out in advance of Mrs C renewal date. 
When Mrs C referred her complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld and said:
There appeared to have been an error in relation to the outstanding £50. But it was 
unclear whether that error originated from Bupa or the treating hospital, because 
Bupas records showed it had paid the claim in full.
Bupa was initially confused about why it had sent the cheque, but it eventually 
confirmed itd been sent in error and said it wouldnt be asking for the £225 back. 
Bupa had provided evidence to show a full renewal pack had been sent, so it was 
unclear why Mrs C hadnt received it. But it shouldnt have taken Mrs C multiple 
requests to receive another pack, and this had caused her unnecessary frustration.
Given Bupa hadnt asked for the cheque back, the £225 more than covered the £50 
Mrs C had paid. And Mrs C was still left with an additional £175 from Bupa, which 
represented a fair amount to reflect the impact of its failings.
Mrs C disagreed with our investigator. She reiterated her complaint and said her concerns 
werent just about the money; they were about the worry, time spent, and trauma Bupas 
actions had caused, and she wanted Bupa sanctioned. So as no agreement was reached, 
the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has set out her concerns at length and I thank her for taking the time to do so. But I 
will only focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint; meaning 
I may not address every point Mrs C has made. And having considered all the available 
evidence and arguments I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons:
Mrs Cs treating hospital said the additional invoice was issued because a particular 
aspect of her care wasnt covered by Bupa. But Bupas records show it paid the 
original invoice in full. So while I appreciate Mrs Cs frustration, I cant fairly conclude 
that Bupa was at fault here. However, irrespective of where the outstanding £50 
originated from, I agree that Mrs C shouldnt have had to pay it, and that doing so 
caused her unnecessary concern and inconvenience. 
There was some initial confusion about why Bupa sent the £225 cheque. This has 
since been clarified; it was sent in error. But I can see that Mrs C was caused both 
frustration and confusion when trying to establish why it had been sent.
Bupa has shown it sent the renewal pack in advance of Mrs Cs policy renewal, so 
its unclear why it wasnt received. The policy did go on to successfully renew, but I 
agree that Mrs C shouldnt have had to chase Bupa multiple times for a replacement 
pack. And I can see this caused her further inconvenience and uncertainty. 
Bupas actions have clearly had an impact on Mrs C. But this service doesnt 
sanction businesses, and any compensation would need to be a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact Bupas actions had on her. 
Mrs C shouldnt have had to pay the outstanding invoice, but I think the £225 Bupa 
sent her in error, and said she could keep, sufficiently covers the £50 she paid. After 
deducting this from the £225, Mrs C is still left with an additional £175 from Bupa. 
And £175 does, in my opinion, sufficiently represent a fair and proportionate amount 
of compensation to reflect the impact of Bupas actions in this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman