DRN-3596125
The complaint
Mrs A complains that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) declined her claim and 
avoided her motor insurance policy for failing to declare her car was registered as a write-off.
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs A was involved in a car accident. There were no other vehicles involved 
but her car was damaged. Mrs A made a claim to One Insurance. It subsequently declined 
the claim when it discovered the car had been registered as a category D write-off. It then 
avoided the policy back to its inception as it says Mrs A misrepresented material facts when 
applying for her insurance policy. 
Mrs A says the information provided by One Insurance during her application was 
ambiguous and misleading. The online journey confirmed the following, Your vehicle must 
not be registered a write off. Mrs A says her understanding is that her car is legitimately 
road worthy, its taxed and has an MOT. She doesnt think its currently registered as a write 
off and One Insurance wasnt clear that she had to declare it had previously been one. 
Mrs A thinks One Insurance should have told her sooner that her policy was being cancelled. 
She says it let her commit a criminal act by driving without insurance. 
Mrs A didnt think One Insurances decision was fair, so she referred her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He thought Mrs A had failed to disclose 
important information, that would have meant One Insurance wouldnt have provided 
insurance cover. Because of this he thought it had been fair when declining her claim and 
avoiding the policy. Mrs A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. Let me explain.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
One Insurance thinks Mrs A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she failed to declare that her car was registered a write off. It has provided screen 
shots from the online customer journey information Mrs A was presented with when she 
applied for her policy. One Insurance says an assumptions box appears to provide 
important information about the policy requirements. The assumptions box includes the 
following information:
It is important that you are aware of the following:
Your vehicle must not be registered a write off
At the bottom of the box is a button that says, Confirm & Continue. This has to be clicked 
for the application to progress. 
In her complaint submission to our service Mrs A says that she was aware when the car was 
bought that it may once have been a category D write off. One Insurances notes after the 
claim had been declined also confirm Mrs A was aware of this. The business has provided 
records that show Mrs As car was registered as a category D write off some years ago. 
I have thought about Mrs As view that the information provided during the application was 
ambiguous and misleading. But I dont think it was. Mrs A was asked to confirm that her car 
wasnt registered as a write off. When a car is written off this status remains for the life of the 
vehicle. In some cases, such as a category D write off, the car can be repaired and returned 
to the road. But it is still registered as a write off, which must be declared when applying for 
insurance. 
I acknowledge Mrs As view that she didnt think her car was currently registered as a write 
off and that it was roadworthy, so she didnt think she did anything wrong when applying for 
her policy. But Mrs A was aware the car had been registered as a write off. I think the onus 
was on her to ensure she was providing accurate information in relation to this point.  
One Insurance has provided its underwriting criteria. This says that all write offs must be 
declined. This shows it wouldnt have provided cover had Mrs A provided accurate 
information about her car. So, Im satisfied that she did make a misrepresentation and that it 
was a qualifying one. In its letter explaining the policy was being avoided back to inception, 
One Insurance says it will arrange for a full refund of the premium. This is the outcome under 
CIDRA when a misrepresentation is thought to be careless. 
I think its fair that One Insurance considered Mrs As misrepresentation to be careless. I 
dont think she deliberately intended to misrepresent information or acted recklessly. But I do 
think the requirement to confirm her car wasnt registered as a write off was clear. Because 
of this I think One Insurance acted reasonably when it avoided the policy. This means it 
effectively didnt exist and there was no insurance cover in place for Mrs As losses from the 
accident.  
Mrs A has raised concerns that One Insurance shouldve told her sooner that her policy was 
going to be cancelled. I have thought about this point. It must have been upsetting to find out 
her claim was declined, and the policy cancelled following her accident. I can understand 
why she was worried that she had been driving uninsured. However, no further loss was 
incurred during this period. I think One Insurance processed Mrs As claim in a reasonable 
timeframe. The decline and avoidance letters were sent out within a week of the claim being 
made. So, I dont think One Insurance treated Mrs A unfairly in this respect.I acknowledge Mrs As request that the call recordings are listened to around the time the 
write off issue came to light. I dont have the calls to listen to. But I dont think this impacts on 
my decision. Im satisfied that Mrs A made a qualifying representation and the time frame in 
which One Insurance responded, when it became aware of this, was reasonable.  
In summary, although I sympathise that Mrs A is faced with paying the cost of the losses 
resulting from the accident, I dont think One Insurance treated her unfairly in declining her 
claim and avoiding her policy. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman