DRN-3136848
The complaint
Mr S feels that HSBC Bank UK Plc acted unfairly by failing to advise him of steps he could 
have taken to avoid charges on his overdraft from 2010 onwards.
What happened
In January 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr S to say that it had noticed hed been using his overdraft 
a lot and to suggest that he get in touch to discuss his borrowing needs so it could see if it 
could reduce his costs. Mr S complained to HSBC that he had been using his overdraft 
consistently for the previous nine years. He said that if HSBC had sent a similar letter much 
earlier then he likely would have been able to avoid the charges and interest that had been 
applied to his account.
HSBC looked at Mr Ss complaint, it said that the January 2020 letter had been sent as that 
was what the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) now required HSBC to do. HSBC also 
noted that it felt any complaint about charges from before 2014 had been referred to late.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ss concerns, she agreed that Mr Ss complaint about
charges from before 2014 had been brought to us too late. She also explained that she
didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly in not writing to Mr S before 2020, or in applying the 
charges and interest to Mr Ss account. Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint
made more than six years after whats being complained about happened, or if later, more
than three years after the complainant knew, or should reasonably have known, that they
had reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R which can be found
online.
Mr S has complained about charges applied to his account between from 2010 onwards. 
This means that Mr S had, at least, six years from the date the charges were added in order 
to complain. So, for example, any charges applied between 2010 and 2013 would have had 
to be complained about by between 2016 and 2019. Mr S didnt complain until 2020 so he 
complained more than six years after the events he is complaining about.
But DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six years to
complain, as long as they complained within three years of when they were aware, or they
ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to. So Ive considered whether DISP
2.8.2R (2)(b) provides Mr S with longer to complain here.
Mr Ss statements would have set out the charges hes unhappy with. So I think that
he would have aware of the charges that HSBC was applying to his account at the time. And 
hed have been aware of his financial circumstances during that period of time too, so hed 
have known whether he was able to afford to pay the charges. As this is the case, I
think that Mr S also ought to have known whether he felt the charges were too much or 
causing him difficulty. So I think Mr S would have known he had cause to complain as soon 
as the charges were applied, which means the three-year rule doesnt provide Mr S with 
longer to complain overall. And with this in mind, I think that his complaint about charges 
from before 2014 was made too late.
I can look at a complaint made outside of the time limit if Im persuaded that this was
because of exceptional circumstances. Mr S hasnt detailed any exceptional circumstances 
that stopped him complaining earlier, other than that he wasnt aware of any time limits on 
complaints. I appreciate that Mr S may not have known about these limits, but that doesnt 
mean that the rules about what complaints I can and cannot look at dont apply.  So as I 
dont think exceptional circumstances were responsible for the delay I cannot look at any 
charges or interest that were applied prior to 2014.
I can though, look at charges applied to Mr Ss account from 2014 onwards.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Mr Ss complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint about 
the charges applied from 2014 onwards. Ill explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged Mr S over the years were fair and reasonable. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for 
me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mr S if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
his account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr S 
fairly and reasonably, including whether HSBC should have contacted Mr S about his 
overdrawn balance earlier than it did. 
I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr S unfairly or unreasonably though. And Ill explain why.
In June 2019 the FCA published its Overdraft Pricing Policy Statement (PS 19/16). This set 
out changes to how banks would have to deal with overdrafts going forwards. Part of the 
rules that the FCA said it would be implementing from December 2019 included details of 
how banks should deal with customers who could be considered to be repeatedly using their 
overdrafts. This rule stated that where a business has identified that a customer has a 
pattern of repeat use of their overdraft and there are signs that customer may be in financial 
difficulties, the business is required to make contact with that customer to highlight their 
overdraft usage and encourage them to make contact to discuss their situation. 
It is because of this new rule that was put in place in December 2019 that HSBC contacted 
Mr S in January 2020 about his overdraft usage. Prior to this there was no similar rule in 
place. Nonetheless, we would still have expected businesses to take steps to assist 
customers where their accounts showed clear signs of financial difficulties. Looking at Mr Ss account statements from before 2020 though, I dont think there were clear 
signs that he was experiencing financial difficulty. I can see that while Mr S did regularly 
make use of his overdraft facility, he also fully repaid his overdraft on numerous occasions, 
either through his monthly salary or through other large credits that he received into his 
account. I understand that this doesnt mean that Mr S wasnt in difficulties, but I dont think 
that with the information it had HSBC should have known that Mr S needed help or that he 
was unhappy with the overdraft facility he had. I also think its worth noting that HSBC did 
send Mr S annual summaries of the cost of using his overdraft during this period. So Mr S 
would have been aware of how much his overdraft usage was costing him. With all this in 
mind, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly in how it dealt with Mr Ss overdraft.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr S, but Im satisfied that HSBC hasnt 
treated him unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman