DRN-3281659
The complaint
Miss G complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by FCE Bank plc trading as Ford Credit (FCE).  
What happened
In February 2019 Miss G acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement. 
Miss G said she noticed problems with the brakes very soon after acquiring the vehicle, 
along with some other problems. Investigations and repairs were conducted on the vehicle 
as follows:
July 2019  De-dust and adjust the front brakes
August 2019  De-dust and adjust the rear brakes, replacement of brake pads and 
passengers side door trim repaired. 
October 2019  Trim clip replaced, screw replaced on rear bumper and brakes investigated
January 2020  De-dust and adjust the rear brakes
February 2020  Replace rear brake shoes, tighten screw on passenger door to prevent a 
rattle and investigate fuel gauge reading incorrectly. 
September 2020  Front brake pads and discs replaced. 
January 2021  Wiring issue found resulting in lamp over number plate not working. Parts 
were ordered. Shortly afterwards, the alarm began to sound continuously, and the vehicle 
was left at the dealership, with a courtesy car being provided to Miss G. 
Miss G complained to FCE in January 2021 about the quality of the vehicle. She said there 
had been many opportunities to repair the brakes, which were still squeaking, and as she 
was now experiencing issues with the alarm sounding all the time, shed lost faith in the 
vehicle. Miss G asked to reject the vehicle. 
FCE sent Miss G their final response to her complaint in February 2021. They agreed that 
the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Miss G. They agreed 
that Miss G could reject the vehicle and it would be collected at no further cost to her. They 
refunded Miss Gs deposit of £1,800.50. They said they wouldnt be refunding any of Miss 
Gs monthly payments, because shed had use of the vehicle. 
The vehicle was collected, and the deposit refunded to Miss G in March 2021. Miss G says 
she also faced costs of around £300 after the car was collected because she had to hire a 
vehicle to keep her mobile until she could find a new one. 
Unhappy with this, Miss G brought her complaint to us for investigation. Our investigator 
gave her view that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied. She 
thought that FCEs agreement to reject the vehicle and refund the deposit was fair, and that 
they were able to retain the monthly payments because Miss G had use of the vehicle. 
Our investigator also thought that FCE should pay Miss G £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced in the multiple attempts to have the vehicle repaired, and she 
later recommended that they should add 8% simple yearly interest to the refund of Miss Gs 
deposit. 
FCE accepted our investigators recommendations. 
Miss G didnt agree. Miss G feels that FCE are profiting from the payments shed made 
toward the agreement for two years, as she no longer has the option to purchase the vehicle 
at the end of the agreement. Shes also had to put up with driving a faulty car for two years.
Miss G said she would be happy to pay for the mileage she covered in the vehicle, at the 
rate that FCE would charge her per mile if shed exceeded the mileage allowance under the 
agreement. Miss G would like all payments over this amount to be refunded, minus the 
deposit shes already received. Miss G calculates this to be in the region of £5,000. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. FCE as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory
FCE have accepted that a reasonable person wouldnt expect the faults that Miss G has 
experienced in a brand-new car, and that the vehicle was therefore of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. So, Ive focussed on the action FCE have taken to put things right. 
The CRA sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not to be of 
satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the goods. 
That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant inconvenience to 
the consumer.  FCE have had multiple chances to repair the car, and faults remain. So, I 
think Miss G should have been allowed her final right to reject the car. 
FCE have allowed Miss G her right to reject the car. It has been collected at no further cost 
to her, and her deposit of £1,800.50 has been refunded. 
Miss G says if the car wasnt faulty, shed have been able to make payments until the end of 
the agreement term and would then have had the option to purchase the car. So, she feels 
the payments shes made toward a faulty car have been wasted and should be returned to 
her. But shed pay the pence per mile charge that FCE wouldve charged her if she 
exceeded the annual mileage allowance. 
FCE say that Miss G has had use of the car, so they dont think any of the payments shes 
made should be refunded. 
Where a vehicle is rejected due to it being unsatisfactory quality, the CRA sets out that any 
refund due may be reduced by a deduction for use, to take account of the use the consumer 
has had of the goods. Miss G entered an agreement to hire a vehicle from FCE, and a monthly price for that hire 
was agreed between them. The cost of the hire and the excess mileage charge are separate 
parts of that agreement, and the cost of hiring the vehicle isnt limited to the miles that Miss 
G covered. I think it would also include things like the cost of the credit provided, and any 
depreciation in value of the vehicle due to use. 
Miss G travelled around 24,000 miles in the vehicle in the two years prior to rejecting it. The 
agreement set out an annual mileage allowance of 12,000 miles, so this is in line with the 
mileage allowance. I think Miss G used the vehicle in line with how she intended to when 
entering the agreement, and there hasnt been any notable loss of use or impaired use of the 
vehicle despite the faults. 
Miss G was without the vehicle at various points when repairs were completed, but she was 
kept mobile with the use of a courtesy car at no cost to her. 
I appreciate that Miss G feels shes wasted the payments as she no longer has the option to 
purchase a vehicle at the end of the agreement. But theres no guarantee that Miss G 
wouldve opted to pay the final payment in order to keep the car at the end of the agreement. 
And, if Miss G didnt have use of this vehicle, she wouldve needed to pay other costs in 
order to keep herself mobile. 
All things considered, Im satisfied that Miss G had fair use of the vehicle for around two 
years prior to it being rejected, and that her monthly payments during this time represent a 
fair cost for this use. So, FCE dont need to refund any of the monthly payments that Miss G 
paid. 
Miss G said she faced costs when the vehicle was rejected, because she had to keep mobile 
until she could find another vehicle. When the vehicle was collected, the agreement between 
Miss G and FCE had come to an end, and Miss G was responsible for finding alternative 
transport. So, I dont think FCE are responsible for these costs. 
Our investigator recommended that FCE pay Miss G £200 compensation. Miss G has been 
put to distress and inconvenience in arranging for a number of repairs to the vehicle. Overall, 
Im satisfied that this compensation reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced by 
Miss G.
Our investigator recommended that FCE pay Miss G 8% simple yearly interest on her 
deposit refund, from the date of payment to the date of the refund, and FCE agreed to this. I 
think this is fair, as this is money that Miss G wouldve had access to, but for the faulty 
vehicle. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and FCE Bank plc trading as Ford Credit 
must: 
Pay Miss G £200 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Pay Miss G 8% simple yearly interest on her deposit refund, from the date the 
deposit was paid, to the date of the refund
If FCE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss G how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman