DRN-3174191
The complaint
Mrs K (through a representative) has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans 
at Home (LAH) didnt carry out proper affordability checks before it provided her with loans. 
  
What happened
Mrs K took 11 loans from LAH between June 2006 and June 2016. A summary of her 
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
repaymentsweekly 
repayment
1 £375 14/06/2006 21/02/2007 41 £15.00
2 £375 22/11/2006 21/02/2007 41 £15.00
3 £1,000 02/05/2007 18/06/2008 70 £25.00
4 £1,000 18/06/2008 10/06/2009 70 £25.00
5 £1,000 10/06/2009 09/06/2010 70 £25.00
6 £1,000 09/06/2010 22/06/2011 70 £25.00
7 £250 01/06/2011 10/07/2013 41 £10.00
8 £1,000 22/06/2011 21/10/2015 70 £25.00
9 £250 21/10/2015 29/06/2016 42 £10.00
10 £200 23/12/2015 29/06/2016 33 £10.00
11 £500 29/06/2016 written off 45 £20.00
The cost per week column is the individual cost per loan per week. Where loans overlapped 
the cost per week will be greater. 
LAH has told us that Ms W had some problems repaying her final loan and in the final 
response letter (FRL) LAH told Mrs K that it had written off the outstanding balance. 
Following Mrs Ks complaint, LAH issued its FRL on 28 April 2021. The FRL explained Mrs K 
had made her complaint too late about loans 1  8, so it didnt investigate Mrs Ks complaint 
further about these loans.  
However, LAH did investigate Mrs Ks complaint about loans 9 - 11. It concluded, it couldve 
done more, and it made an offer to settle those loans, which included offsetting the principle 
that was written off from loan 11. 
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Ks complaint. The assessment was split into two 
parts. 
In the first part, the adjudicator concluded that, this Service couldnt investigate loans 1 and 
2 because they were taken out before this product fell within this Services jurisdiction. But 
she did think that loans 3  8 could be considered because she couldnt see a reason to 
suggest that the loans had been complained about too late. Therefore, these loans were 
referred to this Service within time and we could consider loans 3  11 advanced to Mrs K. 
 
In the second part, the adjudicator considered whether LAH had made an error when 
providing these loans. She hadnt seen enough to uphold loan 3. But the adjudicator did 
uphold loan 4  8 because in her view, the pattern of lending was harmful for Mrs K. The 
adjudicator also thought LAH should honour the settlement it made in the FRL. 
Mrs Ks representative acknowledged the adjudicators findings. 
LAH didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In its response to the adjudicator LAH 
didnt focus on whether it was wrong to have provided some of the loans, instead it focused 
on whether this Service had the jurisdiction to consider loans 3  8. In summary it said:
It disagreed with the approach this Service had taken with this case.
The approach is at odds with other, more recent complaints recieved by LAHs parent 
company. 
In this case, LAH told this Service Mrs K received arrears letters as early as 2011 but 
also in 2017 and a pre-default letter in 2017. LAH says, these notifications were more 
than three years before Mrs K raised her complaint. And so, in line with the example 
cases that LAH has provided, shows this case is outside of this Services jurisdiction. 
The adjudicator has disregarded LAHs points about jurisdiction and the regulations 
this Service must follow. 
No evidence has been provided as to why this case is in this Services jurisdiction 
and as such, LAH hasnt given this Service approval to consider these loans.  
The adjudicator went back to LAH and explained why its comments didnt change his mind. 
She also explained LAH hadnt provided copies of the arrears or default letters, so she 
couldnt say what information had been provided to Mrs K. But she didnt think, based on 
what she had, that making someone aware of arrears, is enough for Mrs K to be aware or 
ought to have been aware that LAH may have done something wrong.
  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look into this complaint about loans 3  11
Its worth saying, that there is no dispute around the time limits for loans 9  11 because 
Mrs K made her complaint within six years of the date of the event  in this case the date the 
loans were advanced. 
In addition, loans 1 and 2 were taken out before this Service can consider complaints about 
this product. So, this Service, doesnt have the power to consider these loans. 
But, LAH has said loans 3  8 cant be considered, because its more than three years since 
Mrs K was or ought to have been aware she had cause for complaint. It is also more than six 
years since the event complained about took place. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Mrs K and LAH to 
decide whether we are able to look at loans 3 - 8. Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider loans 3  8. Ill explain why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about. Or if later, more than three 
years after the complaint in this case, Mrs K knew, or ought to really have known they had 
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online 
in the FCAs Handbook. Its clear loans 3 to 8 were complained about more than six years after they were taken. 
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mrs K was aware or ought to have been 
reasonably aware more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had 
reason to complain. 
LAH has said that when Mrs K experienced repayment problems and received arrears letters 
in 2011, 2016 and a pre-default letter in 2017. LAH says, these shouldve caused her to 
realise, she had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in this particular case to 
demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems and therefore struggling to repay 
the lending would no doubt have led Mrs K to realise there was a problem (in terms of her 
financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would have (or ought to have), in itself, made her  
aware that these problems were caused by LAH doing something wrong when it agreed the 
loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Mrs K was or ought to have become 
aware earlier of cause to complain more than three years before they complained. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 3 to 8 were raised within the time limits I need to apply 
and that I do have the power to consider these loans (along with loans 9  11) Mrs K was 
given. Ill now go on and consider whether or not I think all the loans complained about were 
lent responsibly. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs K could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs K. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to say that LAH was required to establish whether Mrs K 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Mrs Ks complaint.
LAH has already accepted that something went wrong with loans 9  11 so Ive not looked at 
those loans in this decision, but Ive covered these loans off in the putting rights section at 
the end of this decision. 
And, for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant consider loans 1 and 2. 
Loan 3
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint about this loan. Neither Mrs K (nor her 
representatives) disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so I no longer think this loan are in 
dispute. And having looked at this loan, like the adjudicator, Ive also not seen enough to 
make me think LAH did something wrong when this loan was granted. 
But I have kept in mind this loan when thinking about Mrs Ks overall lending relationship 
with LAH.  
Loans 4 - 8
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 4 - 8 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. 
In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Mrs K, LAH also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of its lending relationship with Mrs K.
Having looked at the overall pattern of LAHs lending history with Mrs K, LAH should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the 
time it provided loan 6. I say this because:
By loan 4 it was two years into the lending relationship and Mrs K had been indebted 
to LAH for almost the entire time. In my view, Mrs Ks loan history up until this point 
was a clear indication that her underlying financial situation didnt seem to be 
improving. 
Mrs Ks first loan was for £375 with loan 4 being for £1,000. So, there were no signs 
that her indebtedness wasnt decreasing at this point. 
Mrs K returned for loan 4, on the same day as loan 3 was repaid. It was for the same 
sum of money to be repaid over the same term  70 weeks. This is a large loan to be 
repaid over a significant period of time. Given, it was the second time shed returned 
for the same loan amount, I think this may have indicated that she was having 
underlying financial difficulties. 
From loan 4 onwards Mrs Ks pattern of taking new loans shortly after a previous 
loan had been repaid continued and at times she had more than one loan running at 
the same time.   By the point of loan 8, Mrs K was making a commitment to make repayments to LAH 
for over another year, after already being indebted for the last five years. Loan 8 was 
also the joint largest capital loan to date.  The amount of time that Mrs K spent 
indebted to LAH meant that she was in effect servicing a debt to LAH over an 
extended period of time.
 Mrs K went on to have significant repayment problems. And this reinforces my view 
these loans were unsustainable because LAH wrote off principal that was due for 
loan 11. 
I think that Mrs K lost out when LAH provided loans 4 - 8 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ks indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the number of loans and time in debt was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mrs Ks ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also intending to uphold the complaint about loans 4  8 and LAH should pay 
the redress that it offered to Mrs K in the FRL in relation to loans 9 -11. Ill go on to set out 
below exactly what LAH needs to do in order to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided lending from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs K may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs K would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Mrs K loans 4 - 11.
A. LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs K towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs K which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs K originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. LAH may  if it chooses to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal which 
LAH have written-off.
D. LAH should pay any remaining refund to Mrs K. If there is no refund left and still a 
balance outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for LAH to 
pursue this further.
E. The overall pattern of Mrs Ks borrowing for loans 4 - 11 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so LAH should remove these loans entirely from 
Mrs Ks credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give 
Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Ks complaint in part. 
S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home should put things right for Mrs K as directed 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman