DRN-2204708
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under their home emergency 
insurance policy with Great Lakes Insurance SE.
What happened
Mrs B called to make a claim under the policy on 17 December 2019, as there was a water 
leak from a bathroom. Water was apparently leaking through the ceiling light below. I 
understand Mrs Bs father, who was terminally ill, was living in that room. 
Great Lakess adviser told Mrs B the claim wouldnt be covered, as he thought it sounded 
like the leak was from a waste pipe, which is excluded from cover. Mr B then talked to the 
adviser and said the bathroom facilities had not been used recently, so they didnt know 
where the leak was coming from. It was then agreed that an engineer would be in touch 
within 24 hours and arrange an appointment. 
An engineer attended and told Mr and Mrs B not to use the bathroom. He apparently 
reported that he would need to take up part of the floor to find and fix the leak. Mr and Mrs B 
were told that the policy doesnt cover work required to trace and access the source of a 
leak. Mr and Mrs B were advised to contact their buildings insurance provider and get the 
floorboard lifted and then the engineer would return to fix it. 
Mr and Mrs B are very unhappy about this. They disputed that the policy excluded trace and 
access cover and also say that an adviser was rude to Mrs B on the phone. Their home 
insurance told them that, as there was no damage to their home (other than the leak) they 
could not make a claim under their buildings insurance. Mr and Mrs B therefore told Great 
Lakes that they intended to get the work done privately and would seek reimbursement. 
I understand Mr and Mrs B had the repair carried out by another home emergency insurance 
provider for a fixed fee of £85 but were also required to take an annual policy at the same 
time, which cost £99. Mr and Mrs B say the repair only required unscrewing a floor board 
and lifting it to gain access to the leak. The leak was due to a disconnected fitting on the 
waste pipe from the bath and sink. Following this, Mr and Mrs B cancelled their policy with 
Great Lakes. 
Mr and Mrs B are very unhappy with the service provided. They say the policy - described as 
premium cover - was not fit for purpose. 
Following Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, Great Lakes said the claim was covered but confirmed 
that there was no cover for the work required to trace and access the leak. It offered £25 for 
the trouble caused. Great Lakes also later said it would consider reimbursing any costs 
incurred by Mr and Mrs B that would have been covered under the policy. Great Lakes 
offered to reimburse the £85 cost of repair and pay £75 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept that this was enough. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He concluded that there was nothing in the 
policy terms which would exclude trace and access work, so the claim was wrongly declined; 
and this was wrongly repeated by Great Lakes. The investigator recommended that Great 
Lakes pay £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
which would also cover the fee they had to pay their new provider. 
Great Lakes didnt accept the investigators assessment. It says the invoice provided by Mr 
and Mrs B for the repair work says the leak was from the waste pipe under the sink and this 
is excluded from cover under the policy. Therefore, it does not agree that it should have to 
reimburse the cost of the repairs, or the new insurance policy, as the work would not have 
been covered. Great Lakes also says that no compensation is due, as there was no 
emergency, as there were other bathrooms in the house. 
The investigator agreed that leaks from waste pipes are excluded from cover under the 
policy. He therefore said he no longer thought Great Lakes should reimburse the cost of 
repair or the £99, but should still pay £150 compensation for the way the matter was dealt 
with, and because it did not take sufficient account of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time of the claim. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy held by Mr and Mrs B provides cover for certain emergencies which might occur 
in the home, including problems with plumbing and drains.  As with all insurance policies the 
cover is subject to certain terms and conditions, one of which is that cover will only be 
provided for an emergency situation.  Emergency is defined in the policy: 
Emergency means a sudden or unexpected event at your home which, if not dealt with 
straight away will:
 be a risk to your health,
 make your home unsafe or insecure,
 cause damage or more damage to your home or its contents, or
 leave your home without main services or your main source of heating.
Great Lakes says that the leak was only occurring when the bathroom facilities were being 
used, so if it was not used and, as there were other bathrooms in the house, this did not 
constitute an emergency under the policy definition. 
In addition, Great Lakes policy specifically excludes leaks from waste pipes: 
 What is not covered 
 blocked, broken or leaking soil or waste pipes from sinks, basins, bidets, baths, showers or 
shower bases.
Insurers are generally entitled to decide what cover they will provide for the premium 
charged, provided such terms are clearly set out. There are some policies that would cover 
waste pipes but the policy terms are sufficiently clear in my opinion and I dont agree that 
they are inherently unfair or unreasonable. 
The leak was from a disconnected waste pipe serving the bath and sink and so was not 
covered; and did not constitute an emergency under the policy definition. As the claim wasnt covered, I see no reason why Great Lakes should be required to reimburse Mr and Mrs B for 
the repair costs, or the premium for the new insurance. 
The policy terms are clear and while Mr and Mrs B consider it is not fit for purpose, I have no 
power to change policy terms. 
With regard to the handling of the claim, I agree this could have been better.
The first call-handler seems to have correctly refused the claim initially, as from what Mrs B 
had told him he said it sounded like the leak was coming from the waste pipe, which was 
excluded. Mr B then said the bath and sink had not been used and so the call-handler 
agreed to send someone out to look at it. The engineer then said he could not lift the 
floorboard required, which would have then located the leak and Great Lakes restated this to 
Mr and Mrs B afterwards. They contacted their home insurer at Great Lakess suggestion 
and then had the repair done privately. 
I agree that the policy does not exclude trace and access cover, so Great Lakes was wrong 
to refuse the claim on this basis. Its engineer could have lifted the floorboard, which didnt 
apparently take much to do, and probably would have been able to repair the leak 
immediately. (Even though the repair wasnt covered it only required reconnection of a push-
fit joint and so he probably could have done so easily.) It was also a particularly difficult time 
for Mr and Mrs B, so they obviously wanted it resolved as soon as possible. Ultimately, 
however, the claim was not covered. Having taken everything into account, I agree with the 
investigator that £150 compensation is not unreasonable for the trouble caused. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr and Mrs B 
the sum of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
this claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman