DRN-2913033
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) incorrectly 
recorded an incident he reported, and which wasnt his fault, on his motor insurance record. 
He says that as a result the insurance premiums he had to pay for car insurance in later 
years increased substantially.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr Y took out a motor insurance policy underwritten by Watford. The 
insurance premium for the following 12 months was £862.84.
In April 2019 Mr Y reported that a third party had run into his car from behind when he was 
stationary at traffic lights. Mr Y said he wanted this recorded for notification, and said he 
wasnt sure he would make any claim in respect of the incident. Watford said it would pass 
his details to a claims management company in case he decided to make a claim, and said 
he should notify Watford if he decided not to claim. Mr Y didnt make any claim, but didnt 
notify Watford.
When Mr Y received renewal papers for his policy in December 2019, he found that the 
premium proposed for the following year by Watford had increased to £2,500.98. He didnt 
question Watford about this, but sought insurance elsewhere. He arranged a policy with 
another insurer (insurer 2) for a premium of £922.81 . He changed his car during the year, 
and insurer 2 reduced his premium to £776.44 . However when this policy came up for 
renewal, insurer 2 asked for an increased premium of £1,442.44 .
Mr Y was concerned that the increases in premiums being asked for was linked to the 
incident in April 2019, and how this had been recorded by Watford on his insurance record. 
In January 2021, he spoke on the phone to a representative of Watford who, he says, told 
him the record showed him as making a claim for the 2019 incident. He says she corrected 
the record to show the incident being noted for information only.
Mr Y complained to Watford about its falsely showing a claim against his record, and asked 
it to compensate him for the increased premiums he said he had suffered, and the time and 
trouble this had cost him.
Watford didnt accept his complaint. It said that he had acted correctly in reporting the 
incident, as he was required to do under the terms of his policy. In the absence of any other 
information, Watford accepted that Mr Y wasnt at fault. Its records showed liability on the 
claim as Non Fault, and his no claims discount (NCD) wasnt affected. As it didnt hear 
further from him about making any claim, it noted the incident as settled on its file.
Watford said it didnt hear further from Mr Y about the incident until he spoke to its 
representative in January 2021. It said the representative took this call on a mobile phone,  
and a recording of the call wasnt available. However it had spoken to its representative 
about the call, and she denied saying that the way the incident was originally recorded was 
an error.
She said she had agreed to change the record from settled to settled  information only in 
case this helped at renewal of the policy, but had told Mr Y she couldnt say if this would 
have any beneficial effect. Watford said she did this in an effort to be helpful, but the way the 
incident was recorded originally wasnt an error.
Although Mr Y wanted all mention of the incident removed from his insurance record, 
Watford said it couldnt do this. It had an obligation to record the incident with the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange Database (CUE), to which all insurers had access, as part of Mr 
Ys driving history. The incident was now recorded on CUE, entirely correctly, as:
Claim status   Notification Only Claims Added
Incident description   Third Party Into Insured Rear
NCD Indicator   NCD allowed
Payment 1   No payment made (£0.00)
Watford said that as Mr Y didnt renew with it in 2020, it didnt now have any records to show 
how any revised premium it proposed would have been calculated, or what information 
would have been taken into account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said Watford 
hadnt made any error in the way it handled the initial call by Mr Y, or logged the incident in 
its records as no fault.
Watford said it might originally have shown the claim status on CUE as no fault and 
changed this to notification only after the conversation with Mr Y in January 2021. But it 
considered this made no difference, as both terms meant the same. The important point was 
that the essential information about the incident  no payments made and the NCD allowed 
 remained the same.
The investigator thought Watford had recorded the incident fairly, and didnt have to do 
anything more. He had asked insurer 2 what effect changing the status of the incident from 
no fault to notification only would have on the premium it charged. It responded that it 
would have had no effect. 
Mr Y responded to say, in summary, that:
although he agreed in the initial call to his details being passed to the claims 
management company, Watford should have made it clear this might result in the 
incident being recorded as a claim, which he never authorised; 
the fact that Watford changed its record from no fault to information only showed it 
had made an error; and
he still thought that the sudden increases in premiums was connected to the way the 
incident had been recorded by Watford.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Like the investigator, I dont think Watford made any error in the way it handled Mr Ys initial 
call. It made clear that it would pass his details to the claims management company, and 
that he should tell it if he decided not to make any claim. But he didnt do so.I dont think Watford made any error in the way it initially recorded the incident. I agree it had 
an obligation to record the incident, and to pass the information to CUE. I accept that 
whether Watford recorded the incident as no fault or notification only made no difference 
in practice to the way an insurer would consider the incident when fixing a future premium. 
This is supported by the evidence the investigator obtained from insurer 2.
Its not clear why Mr Ys proposed premiums fluctuated as they did. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest this was because of the way Watford recorded the incident in its records or with 
CUE. So Im not persuaded that Watford did anything wrong in the way it dealt with the 
incident.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Watford 
Insurance Company Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman