DRN-3733449
The complaint
Mr G complains that Remitly U.K.,Ltd blocked and closed his account. He would like his 
account reopened.
What happened
Mr G had an account with Remitly. 
Remitly carried out a review of Mr Gs account. And asked him for information. They blocked 
the account during the review. Remitly then decided to close Mr Gs account. 
Mr G said he wanted to know why his account had been closed and he wanted the 
opportunity to explain. He said he hadnt been asked any questions by Remitly. Mr G said he 
wanted to know what he had done wrong so he could put it right and continue to use his 
account.
He complained to Remitly. They said they had acted correctly in closing the account and had 
complied with the terms and conditions.
Mr G complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She 
thought Remitly had done nothing wrong when they reviewed and blocked Mr Gs account. 
She also said Remitly were entitled to close the account in line with the terms and 
conditions.
Mr G disagreed with the view. He said he had carried out the same type of transaction in the 
past without any problem. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Gs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Remitly were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Gs account. 
I can see that in blocking the account Remitly were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say they were unfair. 
Mr G was asked by Remitly to provide some information in order to update the information 
they hold on their customers. They sent an email to Mr G on 23 June 2021 and a reminder 
email on 25 June 2021. Remitly suspended Mr Gs account. They said they couldnt 
reactivate it and later closed it. 
As the investigator explained its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not 
they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. 
Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a financial 
institution must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their 
account closed.
Ive considered whether Remitly acted fairly in closing Mr Gs account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions of 
the account said Remitly could close and suspend accounts immediately in some 
circumstances, including where someone hadnt given it information it needed or where it 
was otherwise required to do so by law. Having looked at these terms and all the evidence 
Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the 
account as its already done. 
Mr G wants Remitly to explain the reason it applied the block to his account and 
subsequently closed it. And provide him with the information it relied on to do so. Mr G has 
said he should be allowed to know the reason why his account has been closed so that he 
can put this right and continue to use the account. But Remitly doesnt disclose to its 
customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr G 
the reasons behind the account block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr G this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
require it to do so. 
Mr G says he wasnt asked any questions by Remitly and that he would have answered their 
queries, but I have seen emails that were sent to Mr G requesting information and I havent 
seen that Mr G provided the information needed.
Mr G has said he normally sends money to his friends abroad and he had never had a 
problem before. I can see what Mr G is trying to say but Remitly are entitled to request 
information and review payments as part of their legal and regulatory obligations, so I dont 
think theyve acted unfairly here.
Im sure Mr G will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at everything Im 
satisfied Remitly acted fairly when they reviewed, blocked and closed Mr Gs account and I 
wont be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman