DRN-3281901
The complaint
Mr S complains about Financial Administration Services Limited, referred to as Fidelity or 
the business. 
In short, he says:
He wasnt advised about the charges, despite asking. Instead he was told that the D 
Acc and H Acc were the same and had the same charges. 
As a consequence, hes suffered a financial loss for which hed like compensation. 
What happened
A brief summary of events, as previously set out by the investigator in his view, is as follows:
In late November 2020, following the acquisition of his previous platform by Fidelity, 
Mr S contacted the business about why some funds were no longer eligible/available 
for him to buy, he also asked about charges regarding switching from D to H shares.
Mr S was told that because hed become a personal investing client he could no 
longer buy into funds that were only available to advised clients. I understand this 
may have been as a result of a move from Fidelitys FundsNetwork platform to its 
Personal Investing platform. Mr S was also told The H Acc versions of the funds are 
the ones in which direct clients can invest, there [sic] are the same funds just with 
different share classes.
In early December 2020, Mr S was told that if he wanted to amend his Regular 
Savings Plan (RSP), hed have to agree to new terms, and that he could no longer 
invest in D class funds as a result  in other words, he could keep his advised D 
shares, until he made the changes to his RSP.  
In mid-December 2020, Mr S told the business that hed switch his investments to H 
class funds and would need to change to monthly investing. He also asked the 
business for a goodwill payment for the hour (of his time) he spent researching the 
charges and checking differences. In response to his request, the business duly paid 
Mr S a goodwill payment of £25. In late December 2020, Mr S placed a number of 
switches.
Based on what the business says, it seems that in early May 2021, Mr S read the 
costs and charges document (belonging to the fund manager) in an effort to try and 
determine charges and whether hed been charged for switching. The business says 
Mr S mentioned the bid/offer spread and wanted to know the percentages incurred, 
and whether he should be worried about charges for switching  by then, hed 
worked out the bid/offer spread to be 4.8% which he says is significantly higher than 
he was paying on the D Acc shares.
The same day, Mr S wrote to the business expressing his unhappiness about being 
told that there was no fee for switching. He felt hed been misled by the business 
because iShare funds are priced at a bid/offer spread of 5%. 
A day later, the business confirmed that it doesnt charge a fee for switching, in 
response to which Mr S made a formal complaint. He subsequently confirmed that if 
hed been aware of the bid/offer spread, he wouldve bought the Vanguard single-
priced funds instead, saving himself the 5%. 
The business initially upheld the complaint  on the basis that the information regarding the 
entry charge (which it didnt mention) couldve been clearer  but said this is mentioned in 
the Key Information Document (KID). It paid Mr S £50 compensation for not being clearer. 
Post a subject access request by Mr S, and a subsequent referral to our service, the 
business increased the amount of compensation by offering another £100 (so a total of 
£150). Because Mr S refused the offer, that amount hasnt been paid.   
In December 2021, the business changed its position, saying that it was satisfied that it 
hadnt provided Mr S with incorrect or misleading information with regards to his question 
about the charges for switching and that it shouldnt have initially upheld the complaint. 
The business reconfirmed that it doesnt charge for switching and that the information on its 
website in this respect was correct. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it was still prepared to 
honour its (goodwill) offer of £150 if Mr S was willing to accept it.  
Mr S disagreed with the business and referred the complaint to our service. He maintains the 
business failed to provide him with accurate information and as result hes suffered a 
financial loss of around £1,000. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he said:
the information provided by the business in response to Mr Ss question was correct. 
If Mr S had asked a different question, he wouldve got the answer he was looking 
for. 
Its likely Mr S misinterpreted the information. 
When placing the switch Mr S wouldve been presented with the following text:
oImportant documents: Please ensure that you have read the Key information 
document, Pre-sale Illustration document & Doing Business with Fidelity 
document (incorporating the Fidelity Client Terms) and the fund information 
documents. These can be found within the Charges & documents section.
oPage 12 of the document titled Doing business with Fidelity, states:
oThe manager of your investment may make a number of different charges as 
described below
oPage 16 of the same document states:
oWe do not charge you a switching fee, although it is possible that a fund 
manager will make a one-off charge (please see the section on charges on 
page 11). 
The goodwill redress offered by the business was broadly fair and reasonable. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Theres 
been much correspondence between him and the investigator, but in short, he made the 
following key points:
The investigators interpretation of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 
2.2.1 is narrow  the business isnt just responsible for explaining its own charges. 
So that clients can make an informed decision, the duty must extend to requiring 
fund supermarkets to provide accurate information about charges levied by fund 
managers, when their funds are brought through that supermarket.    
The information provided by Fidelity was incorrect. In other words, its answers to his 
direct question was incorrect and misleading about the charges hed incur. If COBS is interpreted widely, as he suggests, the business is in clear breach of it 
and therefore should compensate him for his losses. 
The information on Fidelitys website stated that fund manager buy charge was 0% 
in several places in the order process. Given this, and the businesss assurance that 
there was no difference between the D Acc and H Acc funds it was clear that the 
business provided incorrect information on the fees charged by BlackRock as the 
investment manager.  
It was reasonable for him to only ask the question he did. He asks that any criticism 
of him  in respect of whether or not he misunderstood or failed to mitigate his loss - 
is removed from the decision.   
He questions whether Fidelitys actions were in line with good industry practice.
He would be grateful if the investigator answered his questions/issues raised about 
COBS. 
The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Hes addressed the key points. 
Despite what Mr S says about COBS 2.2.1, its wording doesnt say/suggest that 
information should also apply to charges levied by fund managers. 
Hes not satisfied that Mr S was misled by Fidelity, because it didnt charge for the 
switch. 
Mr S also wasnt charged an entry charge (by Fidelity), when he switched from D to 
H funds on Fidelitys platform.   
The business made the following observations in response to the investigators view:
Mr S feels he was misled because he was told there wasnt a charge if he made a 
switch from D to H class funds. He subsequently read literature produced by the 
fund manager and noted a maximum entry charge of 5%. 
At the outset it upheld the complaint  it noted a discrepancy between the fund 
managers literature and the information given to Mr S prior to the switch. It initially 
paid him £50, and subsequently during correspondence with our service, offered him 
another £100 bringing the total compensation to £150, for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
However, it maintains it didnt mislead Mr S, and an entry charge wasnt applied (by 
it) to the deals when he switched from D to H funds. 
Mr S might still think otherwise and maintain his stance, as a result of information 
provided by the fund manager.  
The charges that Mr S looked at/referred to in the KID  produced by the fund 
manager rather than Fidelity  isnt presently applied to switches made through the 
platform. Thats why, in reference to the screenshot supplied, he saw a figure of 
0.00% on its platform.  
Whilst it still stands by its offer, it maintains there wasnt any misinformation when it 
told Mr S that there wouldnt be a charge for switching. 
Mr S provided some further points he wished me to consider before deciding this case. In 
short he said:
The investigators view appears to accept that Fidelity provided incorrect information 
about the buy charge, levied by the fund manager. 
Fidelitys website said the fund manager buy charge was 0% but the fund manager 
levied a 5% buy charge by way of a 5% bid/offer spread which he paid.
Despite him asking whether there as a difference between the D Acc and H Acc, the business told him there was no difference between them, it didnt draw his 
attention to the bid/offer spread that applied to the H Acc version of the shares. 
The investigators view that Fidelity isnt responsible for providing this (false) 
information  because the charge is set out and decided by the fund manager  goes 
against COBS 2.2.1. 
GEN 2.2.2 states that every provision in the handbook must be interpreted in light of 
its purpose. Nothing in the text of COBS 2.2.1 limits the businesss obligation to 
provide information about costs and associated charges to charges levied only by 
the business. It should be interpreted as all relevant costs and associated charges, 
whether by the regulated entity or a business closely connected to it  in this case 
iShares.
Fidelity can sometimes negotiate discounts with fund managers, its then paramount 
that it provides accurate information on the charges that will apply when customers 
invest thought it. Looking at the iShares website (or its KID) wont say how much it 
will cost, that information will only be available through Fidelity  otherwise customers 
will be left unable to make an informed decision contrary to COBS. 2.2.1, which 
Fidelity is under a duty to adhere to.  
His interpretation of COBS means that Fidelity is responsible for providing incorrect 
information and is therefore responsible for compensating him for the losses claimed. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
Im not persuaded that the business provided incorrect information when it told Mr S that it 
doesnt charge for switching. I also dont think the business is in breach of COBS by doing 
so and/or by not, in this instance, bringing to his attention charges that might be applied by 
the fund manager. So, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, 
I dont think the business should pay the losses claimed. 
The above notwithstanding, I note the business acknowledges in its latest response that the 
complaint was initially upheld and £150 offered as a gesture of goodwill/compensation (of 
which £50 had already been paid). However, the business maintains that it didnt provide Mr 
S with incorrect or misleading information and has previously said that this complaint ought 
not to have been upheld. In any case, it is still willing to honour its offer of £150.   
So, in summary, I dont think the business has done anything substantially wrong, and its a 
matter for the business whether or not it pays the goodwill payment. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions in 
respect of the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised under a
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this
case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the
pertinent points.My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr S and the business and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case,
rather than take any side. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont uphold this complaint. My reasons, in 
brief are as follows:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, Im broadly 
satisfied that the information provided by the business in response to his specific 
question  relating to the charges for switching  was correct. On balance, Im 
satisfied (as a point of fact) Fidelity doesnt charge for switching, so I dont think Mr S 
was given misleading information in respect of this point.   
I note in response to Mr Ss detailed complaint, the business explained that any 
bid/offer spread isnt something that it charges for, in other words, its not part of its 
(own) charging structure. It is fund specific, and the information relating to it is 
available within the relevant fund documents produced by the fund manager. 
In this instance, and on balance, I dont think it was for the business to advise on 
charges that might (or might not) be applied by a third-party business  regardless of 
whether or not Fidelity shouldve used the term entry fee or bid/offer spread. So, I 
cant blame the business for not doing so. Im mindful Mr S accepts that the bid/offer 
spread is a commercial decision by iShares. 
In other words, in this instance, its important to note that the bid/offer spread (as well 
as other costs) imposed by a third-party fund manager dont form any part of the 
businesss fee structure, so I dont think the business was wrong not to mention it to 
Mr S. 
Im also aware that a fund manager, can levy (other) charges  such as an ongoing 
fee, entry fee and exit fee  that can also differ from fund to fund depending on the 
investment, which I dont think Fidelity was responsible for explaining or advising 
upon.  
By not doing so, I dont think the business did anything that was contrary to Mr Ss 
interests  so far as its charge for switching was concerned  contrary to COBS. In 
other words, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, 
Im satisfied that the business in responding to his question acted in line with COBS. 
Im conscious that the decision to switch was Mr Ss own and not that of the 
businesss  and it wasnt as a result of any advice or guidance given by the 
business. 
Based on what Mr S says, it seems that it was probably done to simplify his 
investments. I note he wasnt happy about Fidelity taking over his predecessor 
platform, but thats not something I can comment on, and it doesnt take away from 
Mr Ss decision to switch. A business is entitled within the reasonable exercise of its 
legitimate commercial judgement to buy whatever business it chooses. Its not for us 
to tell a business how to run its affairs. 
Despite what Mr S now says I note it was made clear to him that the funds (in 
reference to the D and H versions) are two different share classes, for different types 
of client. And so far as Fidelity was concerned, it doesnt charge for switching 
between funds. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think Mr Ss suggestion that he wouldve 
instead invested in the Vanguard single-priced funds is probably made in hindsight. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that his decision not to invest in the above fund 
specifically hinged on the information provided by the business.
I note Mr S says, his primary concern, when researching funds, is to find funds with 
low fees. So, if prior to switching Mr S wanted more information about additional 
charges  (potentially) applied by the fund manager or third parties  he ought reasonably to have asked the business that specific question but didnt. Mr S not 
doing so, isnt something I can blame the business for. In other words, I cant blame 
the business for him not asking different or arguably more targeted questions to 
which I think the business wouldve provided a clear answer - it wasnt obliged to 
second guess what information he might need. 
The suggestion that a platform provider is liable to advise on fund manager charges, 
whenever an investor decides (of their own volition) to switch funds is unreasonable.  
Im mindful that Mr S was paid a £25 goodwill payment for his time spent 
researching the charges. So, its arguable that other than the question(s) asked he 
had the information he needed. 
Whether or not a duty to explain charges must extend beyond the business itself  
which I dont believe it does in this instance  or whether fund supermarkets (in 
reference to Fidelity) should be forced to provide information about charges levied by 
fund managers in line with Mr Ss apparent wider interpretation of COBS, is not a 
specific question I need to answer in order to decide this case. 
In short, I dont think Fidelity was wrong not to advise Mr S about the bid/offer 
spread, and it not doing so doesnt mean it hasnt treated him fairly given it answered 
the question he had put. Despite what Mr S says, the charges relating to specific 
fund managers can be found within documentation on their own websites, not on 
Fidelitys and Im satisfied that Mr S was aware of this. 
Using Mr Ss example, this might explain why the BlackRock iShares Prospectus was 
on BlackRocks own website, and not Fidelitys. In this instance, and on balance, 
despite what Mr S says about Fidelity, I dont think that information relating to 
charges by the fund manager ought reasonably to have been made provided to him 
through Fidelity.  
Even if the information available wasnt as clear as Mr S wouldve liked, it seems 
(more likely than not) he was still prepared to go ahead, based on his own 
assumptions, without establishing a definitive answer on what appears to be the 
foundation of his complaint. 
I note Mr S says The information on the 5% entry charge on Fidelitys website and 
the Key Information Documents for the funds, taken together, was not clear, 
accurate, fair, or prominent. Therefore it was reasonable to assume that when buying 
through Fidelity the buy charge would be 0%....
I note Mr S maintains that it was reasonable for him to draw his own conclusion 
based on information online and what he was told, despite also saying the 
information on the website was inconsistent and confusing. But on balance, I dont 
think it was reasonable for him to draw the conclusion that he did before going ahead 
with the switch. 
I say this not as a criticism  the purpose of my decision isnt to look into Mr Ss 
actions  but as an observation, which will help to explain why I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld and why the business isnt responsible for the losses 
claimed. 
Despite what Mr S now says, in my opinion, even by his own account, the position 
with regards to additional charges imposed by the fund manager/third parties was 
equivocal. I dont agree that the information he saw meant thered be no charge as 
decided by Mr S. Im not persuaded that there was a credible basis for concluding 
that hed pay 0% under a new fund manager especially given he was paying fees on 
his existing funds before he switched.   
I note Mr S concluded  before going ahead with the switch  that the 0% was 
entirely consistent with Fidelity having negotiated a 5% discount on the entry fee for 
their customers  but Fidelity never told him it had done this or confirmed that this 
would be the case. So, Mr S suggesting that he wasnt worried about the apparent 
discrepancy isnt something I can blame the business for.  
I note Mr S never asked the business whether or not thered be charges imposed by the fund manager or why there was an apparent discrepancy between the 
information available on the businesss website and the fund managers, and whether 
it was ok for him to draw the conclusion that thered be no charge if hed invested 
through Fidelity. Despite what Mr S says, I dont agree that these are highly technical 
questions and there was nothing preventing him from asking the business these 
questions before he decided to switch. 
If Mr S didnt read the documentation before switching even when he was notified to 
do so  as mentioned by the investigator in the background  or didnt ask the 
appropriate questions, and instead drew his own conclusions, its not something I can 
blame the business for. On balance I cant agree that Mr S was given inaccurate 
information in response to his question which he acted upon. 
I note the business offered Mr S £150, as gesture of goodwill of which £50 has been paid. 
Given my decision, its not an amount I can ask the business to pay. However, given the 
businesss recent undertaking I would expect it to do so. 
I appreciate that Mr S will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator, and I havent given him what he wants.  
But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what he says, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint and give him what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman