DRN-3457760
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays didnt return funds they held of his in a timely fashion. He 
would like interest for the period he couldnt access his funds, and compensation.
What happened
Mr S held accounts with Barclays. In 2006 a freezing order was taken out against Mr S by a 
third party, that prevented him from withdrawing any money from the accounts. 
In 2015 Mr S contacted Barclays and asked them to close the accounts and transfer the 
balances to him. Barclays responded that the order was still in place, so they would need a 
variation or discharge order to remove the blocks. Unhappy with this, Mr S referred the 
complaint to our service. Eventually one of our ombudsmen issued a final decision that said 
they didnt think it was unreasonable for Barclays to decline to release the money without 
sufficient evidence that doing so wouldnt breach the court order. They didnt uphold the 
complaint.
In 2020 Mr S contacts Barclays again to gain access to the funds they held. Barclays 
confirmed again that they would need confirmation that the order was discharged before 
releasing the funds to him. They said they had no record of receiving this previously. But 
they agreed to pay Mr S £150 for the ongoing inconvenience.
Mr S referred the complaint to our service. Before one of our investigators could look into 
what happened, Barclays released the funds to him.
When our investigator looked into what happened, they didnt think this was a complaint we 
should consider. They felt the fundamental complaint was the same as we had already 
considered in 2015, and under the rules of our service it could seriously impair the effect 
operation of our service if we were to consider the subject matter a second time. They felt 
the fact the funds were released after Barclays had written to Mr S with their final answer 
meant it was a separate issue from the complaint originally raised with us.
Unhappy with this answer Mr S asked the complaint to be referred for a decision. The case 
has been passed to me and having reviewed the file I asked Barclays why the released the 
funds. They confirmed their solicitors had been contacted by the third partys solicitors who 
had let them know the entity who had taken out the order against Mr S was dissolved in 
2012.
I issued a provisional decision, which said the following:
Ive decided this is a case that our service should consider  but also that Im not asking 
Barclays to do anything further.
Our service has the power to look in to acts or omissions by financial businesses, and 
generally we wouldnt look to revisit the same issues again and again  continuously 
reinvestigating the same omissions would seriously impair our services operation. Also, 
once we have issued a final decision our involvement is officially over, and we have no 
power to consider the same complaint again.
But there are certain situations, such as here with Mr S, where the omission is ongoing. 
Barclays continued to withhold the money from Mr S accounts after the previous final 
decision.
So, Im not going to consider anything prior to the previous decision by our service in 2015, 
as this will have been considered by the previous ombudsman. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to reinvestigate the same events without any material new evidence that I 
think would likely change the outcome of the complaint. 
The previous decision issued in 2015 was that it was reasonable for Barclays to withhold the 
money until it had proof that the order against Mr S had been discharged. And, it appears 
neither Barclays nor Mr S knew of the dissolution of the claimant; or any other new evidence 
which shows they ought to have discovered the dissolution prior to that point. The fact the 
evidence exists doesnt mean Barclays acted incorrectly based on the information they had 
at the time.
I can see why the investigator took the view that this case should be dismissed, having been
dealt with by our service previously.
But because the act complained about was ongoing after the previous decision, I have gone
on to consider whether Barclays ought to have done anything differently after 2015 and up
until they discovered the dissolution of the complainant. As this piece of information only
became known after Barclays issued their final response to this complaint, then it is possible
to conclude this is a new complaint matter that Barclays should investigate first. But to my
mind this would be unnecessary, as it would essentially be asking Barclays to reinvestigate
the same events for a third time, when the funds in question have already been released.
So, Ive decided this is a complaint where we can consider the merits. They key question for
me is whether Barclays had enough information to release the funds earlier, and whether
then it would be appropriate to ask them to pay Mr S statutory interest on them.
But having reviewed the available information, Im not satisfied this is the case. Firstly, when
considering the previous decision in 2015 it doesnt appear that the thrust of Mr S complaint
is that Barclays should release the funds as the order has been discharged. To my reading
the decision focuses on whether the funds in question, and his right to make use of them,
were part of the court order.
Secondly, after our services decision in 2015 I think it ought to be reasonably clear to Mr S
that the onus would be on him to provide evidence that releasing the funds wouldnt breach
the court order. Having reviewed the documents sent in by both parties, I cant see Mr S
highlighted that the other party to the order was now dissolved at any point.
Mr S has suggested Barclays gave our service false information in 2015 and is withholding a
discharge order now  but Im not persuaded this is the case. The decision to release the
funds seems to rest of the dissolution of the claimant, making any order moot. Ive not seen
anything to suggest there was a specific discharge order.
I think had Mr S been aware the entity which took out the order had been dissolved he would
have brought this to Barclays and our services attention at the time. But nothing Ive seen
suggests this was the case, or that he put this forward after our previous decision. As he was
a party to the order, I would have reasonably expected him to have been aware of this fact.
Its more likely than not that the first point Barclays became aware that the entity involved in
the court order was dissolved was in 2021, when they received contact from the third partys
solicitors. They released the funds within a reasonable time afterwards, including interestaccumulated at the account rate while the funds were withheld. I dont consider any delay in
releasing the funds solely down to the action of Barclays.
On that basis Barclays havent been unreasonable in withholding the funds in the way they
did. Barclays have already paid Mr S £150 for the ongoing inconvenience prior to releasing 
the funds, which I consider to be fair and Im not asking them to do anything further.
Barclays responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mr S didnt agree. He said the 
money should have been available to him from 2012, and hed been asking Barclays to 
check for the last eight years. He did not think the compensation offered and interest paid 
was fair for Barclays failing to deal with him correctly and investigate the freezing order as he 
asked. He also said I hadnt made reference to a 2014 statement Barclays had sent him.
Now Ive had responses from both parties I can move on to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied with the conclusions reached in the provisional decision. For 
claritys sake Ill reiterate that Ive not considered any of the events considered in the 
previous final decision by our service  which would include the statement Barclays sent in 
2014.
In this case its accepted that at some point there was a freezing order on the account. And I 
consider it reasonable that Barclays retained these funds until such time they had proof the 
order had been discharged or was no longer valid  such as when they found out that the 
other party to the order was dissolved. So, my considerations are whether Barclays had the 
information to release the funds earlier than they did.
The final decision from 2015 doesnt make reference to other party being dissolved  in fact 
it suggests that its not contested the order remains in force, which strongly suggests to me 
neither party was aware of this fact. The decision is also clear that the onus is on Mr S to 
demonstrate the order has been discharged.
Mr S has said that Barclays didnt investigate the freezing order as he asked. But that isnt 
the role of Barclays to investigate freezing orders on his behalf  that isnt an obligation they 
have, nor is it anything theyve agreed with Mr S. This would either be up to him, or his 
solicitors. The previous decision in 2015 made this clear. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr S, or anyone working on his behalf, raised that the other 
party was dissolved with Barclays at any point. Likewise, Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Barclays ought reasonably to have been aware of this point earlier. 
Barclays did attempt to contact the third party solicitors, which is think is a reasonable 
attempt to break the impasse. And once they received the relevant information from the third 
party solicitors, they released the funds promptly, which is reasonable. I think it more likely 
than not the first time Barclays became aware was when the third party solicitors got back in 
touch with them in 2021. 
Taking everything in to account, Ive no doubt this would have been immensely frustrating for 
Mr S, but I dont hold Barclays responsible for the length of time it took him to receive his 
funds. Im satisfied that the £150 compensation Barclays have already paid, along with the 
account rate interest, is fair and Im not asking them to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc do not need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman