DRN-3077874
The complaint
Mrs H complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that she was given 
unsuitable advice to invest in an unregulated collective investment scheme, namely Elysian 
Fuels, by Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd. In particular, she complains:
The investment was unsuitable relative to her attitude to risk and categorisation 
as a retail client.
She wasnt made adequately aware she could lose her entire investment.
No due diligence was provided on the actual true value of the Elysian Fuels 
shares that have been shown to be worthless.
The subsequent purchase of the shares by Mrs Hs Self Invested Pension Plan 
(SIPP) was unsuitable relative to her attitude to risk and investment 
requirements.
The risk of the investment being treated as an unauthorised payment 
with a subsequent tax charge was not explained to her.
What happened
Mrs H and her husband  Mr H saw an adviser  in 2013  about  investing  some  of the 
money  they held on deposit.  They  were  advised  to each  invest  in an unregulated  
investment  - Elysian  Fuels.  Mrs H was advised  to invest  £10,707  but the scheme  also 
included  a limited  recourse  loan of around  £54,000  allowing  the purchase  of £64,500  
of shares  in the scheme.  Shortly  after Mrs H made  her investment  the shares  were  
purchased  by her SIPP.
Elysian  Fuels  wasn't  successful  and shares  in the investment  now have  no value.  
HMRC  also became  involved  because  it said that the shares  sold to the Pension  
Scheme  were  worthless,  so it was treating  the payment  from the scheme  as an 
unauthorised  payment.  As a result  of this it said a tax charge  of 40% and a further  
surcharge  of 15% would  be applied  to the money  the Pension  Scheme  paid for the 
shares.
I have issued two provisional decisions in this complaint, both upholding the complaint and 
awarding redress. These are set out below and form part of this final decision but in 
summary I found that the adviser had advised Mrs H to invest in Elysian Fuels and to put 
the investment in her SIPP and that the advice wasnt suitable. I said Wealthmasters should 
calculated redress based on comparison of the Elysian Fuels investment with a benchmark 
and also the tax payable as a result of the investment being put into her SIPP.
COPY SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs H complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that she was given 
unsuitable advice to invest in an unregulated collective investment scheme, namely 
Elysian Fuels, by Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd. In particular, she 
complains:
The investment was unsuitable relative to her attitude to risk and categorisation 
as a retail client.
She wasnt made adequately aware she could lose her entire investment.
No due diligence was provided on the actual true value of the Elysian Fuels 
shares that have been shown to be worthless.
The subsequent purchase of the shares by Mrs Hs Self Invested Pension Plan 
(SIPP) was unsuitable relative to her attitude to risk and investment 
requirements.
The risk of the investment being treated as an unauthorised payment 
with a subsequent tax charge was not explained to her.
background
In 2013 Mrs H and Mr H saw an adviser for Wealthmasters who recommended they 
each invest in Elysian Fuels, an unregulated investment. Mrs H invested £10,707 but 
the investment also included a limited-recourse loan of just short of £54,000 which 
meant she was able to purchase shares for £64,500. Shortly after her investment the 
shares were purchased by her SIPP.
Elysian Fuels wasnt successful and shares in the investment now have no value. 
HMRC also became involved because it wrote to Mrs H and said that the shares sold to 
the SIPP were worthless, so it was treating the payment from the SIPP as an 
unauthorised payment for which it would apply a tax charge of 40% and a further 
surcharge of 15%.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, a copy of which is attached and forms 
part of this further provisional decision. In short, I made the following key findings:
  There is a lack of information in the fact find about Mrs Hs investment knowledge 
and experience.
The reference to shares she held of £350,000 more likely than not refers to the 
value of her business with Mr H.
I wasnt satisfied in the circumstances that Mrs H had any significant 
shareholding, and even if she did there is nothing to show what actual 
investment knowledge or experience she had.
There is no evidence she had any previous experience of an investment like 
Elysian Fuels so wouldve understood the risk of that type of investment.
Such knowledge and experience cant be assumed because she signed to 
confirm she was a High Net Worth Individual, had a significant property portfolio 
and was entrepreneurial.
In the circumstances I wasnt satisfied that adviser had a reasonable basis for 
believing Mrs H had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand 
the risks of the investment.
I wasnt satisfied that Mrs H was able to bear the investment risk of the investment 
as on the information available in the fact find the money invested in Elysian Fuels 
was 70% of her available cash.
Mrs H answered no to questions about whether she wanted to invest in any 
particular sector, country, fund or companies and whether she wanted to consider 
ethical investments.
Given her answers to the questions the reference to her wanting to invest in a 
green product in the advisers notes makes it more likely than not the adviser  
who was already invested in Elysian Fuels himself - suggested this.
It was unlikely he researched a suitable investment and given he was already 
invested in Elysian Fuels it is more likely than not he always intended to 
recommend this.The list of Mrs Hs objectives in the suitability report is a list of the characteristics 
of the Elysian Fuels investment rather than actual objectives of Mrs H.
The adviser actually recorded in the fact find that he had advised Mrs H about 
selling the Elysian Fuels investment to her Pension, so Wealthmasters was wrong 
to say there was no evidence he advised her about this and that this was just an 
option he referred to.
Wealthmasters should pay redress based on a comparison between the zero 
value of the Elysian Fuels investment and the FTSE All Share Index.
It should also pay the tax and other costs HMRC says is payable as a result of 
her Pension investing in the Elysian Fuels investment.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Wealthmasters didnt agree with 
my provisional decision. In summary it said the following:
The Elysian Fuels investment wasnt a UCIS as I have said, and each 
investment was made within a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP).
By contracting with the LLP each member accepted that they had responsibility 
for running the LLP on a day to day basis, and each person signed up to a 
number of obligations.
Mrs H was a true entrepreneur and wouldve been accustomed to volatile 
geared investment through her property business and she wouldve known 
how an LLP operated.
HMRC have concluded that the marketing material for Elysian Fuels as presented 
by Future Capital Partners was grossly misleading and the ombudsman should 
recognise that they were authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time they 
issued marketing material to IFAs.
The regulator states that an IFA is entitled to rely on the marketing material issued 
by a regulated firm and at the time the government were strongly in favour of 
green investments
The investment was made up of an 84% limited recourse loan, so investors only 
had to provide 16% of the investment amount so the associated risks were limited 
with a potential upside.
The interpretation by an experienced investor such as Mrs H in this situation 
would mean that the investment was anything but high risk to her compared to 
say her property investments.
It wasnt involved in the pension arrangement and it feels this is a critical part of 
this action.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Wealthmasters has stated that Elysian Fuels isnt a UCIS. I was unaware this was 
in issue, given the investigator identified it as such and Wealthmasters didnt correct the 
investigator at the time.
However, the investment was still an unregulated investment, and the fact it wasnt a 
UCIS doesnt change my overall findings about its unsuitability. I am still of the view that 
there is no evidence that Mrs H had the knowledge and experience to understand an 
unregulated investment such as Elysian Fuels before she invested in it. I do not consider 
that having a property portfolio provided her with the necessary experience, contrary to 
what Wealthmasters continues to argue. I dont think the fact Mrs H agreed to certain obligations relating to the LLP provides any evidence of the suitability of the investment 
either.
I note in this regard that Wealthmasters seeks to argue on one hand that the adviser could 
only advise based on the information he was given - which didnt show Mrs Hs property 
portfolio was mortgaged - and on the other that there was nothing wrong with the advice 
because Mrs H had a mortgaged property portfolio. It seems to me Wealthmasters cant 
have it both ways. Based on the information that he had the investment adviser had no 
basis for thinking that Mrs H would understand the workings of the Elysian Fuels 
investment.
Wealthmasters has referred to Mrs H as being a true entrepreneur, but I am not 
persuaded that her knowledge and understanding of her property business gave her the 
necessary experience to understand an unregulated investment such as Elysian Fuels. 
Wealthmasters has also referred to Mrs H being an experienced investor, but there is little 
evidence that she was. 
As I said in my original provisional decision, the joint shares of £350,000 recorded by the 
investment adviser more likely than not refer to Mrs Hs and Mr Hs property business and 
there is nothing to suggest there was any other shareholding. Even if that was not the 
case, and Mrs H did have some shares, the investment adviser had no information about 
those shares, or how Mrs H came to own them. Simply knowing Mrs H had some shares 
didnt provide him with the information he needed to assess Mrs Hs investment 
experience.
Wealthmasters says it was entitled to rely on the marketing material issued by a regulated 
firm and that HMRC has said that the marketing material issued by Future Capital 
Partners was grossly misleading. However, its reliance on the marketing material doesnt 
mean it isnt responsible for the unsuitable advice it gave Mrs H.
Wealthmasters has referred to Mrs H only having to invest 16% of the investment amount 
with the balance provided by the limited recourse loan. But Im not persuaded that 
because the amount invested wasnt that significant that this made the investment 
suitable. As I noted in my original provisional decision, the amount she invested was 
around 70% of her available cash based on the information in the fact find, with the rest of 
her assets being tied up in her property portfolio and her share of the business. So even 
though she invested a comparatively small amount, it was a large part of the money she 
had available for investment.
Wealthmasters have not provided any explanation why the fact find records that Mrs H 
has no preference as to what she invested in but then refers to her wanting to invest in a 
green product and the adviser referring to green oil in the notes - with the reference to 
Mrs H being interested in a green product then repeated in the suitability letter.
I am not persuaded that Mrs H was interested in investing in a green product. As I said in 
my original provisional decision, the adviser was himself invested in Elysian Fuels. It 
seems to me more likely than not that his decision to recommend that investment was, in 
part at least, to do with him already being invested in it rather than because Mrs H wanted 
a green product. I think it is more likely than not the reference to Mrs H wanting a green 
product was to help justify the advice to invest in Elysian Fuels and nothing to do with any 
preference she had.
Mrs H did receive advice from a pension adviser employed by an Appointed 
Representative of another regulated business that is no longer trading. I have only seen the pension suitability report provided to Mr H and not Mrs Hs report, but the pension 
adviser referred to the advice to Mrs H being the same.
So, on that basis as Mr H was advised to transfer his existing pensions into a SIPP and for 
the SIPP to buy shares in Elysian Fuels it is reasonable to find Mrs H was advised 
similarly. The SIPP suitability report was dated 11 April 2013, the day before the meeting 
between Mrs H and the investment adviser which the pension adviser refers to attending.
The pension suitability report records that Mr H wanted to release money from his existing 
pensions to allow purchase of another property which he saw as providing a better return 
than could be obtained through purchasing an annuity or any other option. As I have 
already stated, my understanding is that the advice to Mrs H was on the same basis. So, 
it is reasonable to find that she also wanted to release money from her pension/s for the 
same purpose.
However, although Mrs H received advice form the pension adviser about transfer of her 
pensions/s to a SIPP so that shares in Elysian Fuels could then be purchased, I dont 
think this means Wealthmasters isnt then responsible for the shares being purchased 
by the SIPP.
The available evidence shows that the investment adviser recommended investment in 
Elysian Fuels specifically so that the shares could be purchased by the SIPP. The 
advice was given in a joint meeting with the pension adviser and the investment fact 
find records that the investment adviser advised Mrs H to sell or transfer the shares in-
specie to her pension.
The subsequent suitability letter refers to this being an option in the future, but I think this 
is unlikely to reflect what was discussed in the meeting on 12 April 2013. I think there 
can be little doubt that the investment adviser was fully aware the shares were going to 
be
purchased by Mrs Hs SIPP and that there was enough money to do so given the pension 
adviser was at the meeting.
I think the evidence clearly shows that the investment adviser recommended the investment 
in Elysian Fuels specifically so that Mrs Hs SIPP could purchase the shares. His advice was 
not some standalone piece of investment advice but fundamental to Mrs H using her SIPP to 
purchase the shares, as the investment adviser well knew.
If the investment adviser had provided suitable advice, the investment in Elysian Fuels would 
not have taken place and nor would there have been a subsequent purchase of those 
shares by the SIPP. In the circumstances I am satisfied that Wealthmasters is responsible 
for the SIPP purchasing the shares in Elysian Fuels.
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs H as closely as possible into the position she would probably now be in 
if she had been given suitable advice. I think she would have invested differently. It isnt 
possible to say precisely what she would have done but I think on balance what I have set 
out below is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think fair redress is to calculate the notional position Mrs H would have been in if she had 
not been advised to invest in Elysian Fuels and the shares hadnt been purchased by her 
SIPP.In calculating Mrs Hs actual position, I am mindful that the money paid to her by the SIPP 
for purchase of Elysian shares was for her to purchase another property for her property 
portfolio.
In the circumstances she has had the benefit of using that money for that purpose and it is 
therefore appropriate to take into account the current value of the money paid to her and 
used to purchase a property.
It seems to me this can be established by Mrs H providing evidence of the purchase price of 
that property and its current value. It should then be possible to work out how much the 
money paid to her and used for the purchase is currently worth.
What Wealthmasters should do
Wealthmasters should calculate the following on the date of my final decision: Notional 
position = A+B where:
A = Value of Mrs Hs SIPP if the money used to purchase shares in Elysian Fuels had 
instead been invested in funds in line with the FTSE ALL Share Index at the date of 
calculation. I think this is an appropriate benchmark to use given Mrs Hs circumstances and 
risk appetite.
B = The value of Mrs Hs initial contribution of £10,707 to Elysian Fuels which she would 
have retained if she hadnt invested in the scheme.
Actual position = C+D+E - F where:
C = Value of current pension.
As the investment held in the SIPP is illiquid (so cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, I think it is 
reasonable to assume the investment has no current value and there is no prospect 
of any future return. On that basis it is fair to make no allowance for a current or 
future value. For that reason, the actual value should be assumed to be nil.
D = Value of any interest Mrs H held in the LLP. I consider this value to be nil and I do not 
think there is any reasonable prospect of her interest having any value in the future.
E = Current value of the money released to Mrs H from the sale of Elysian shares by him to 
the SIPP. As explained above Mrs H will need to provide evidence to establish how much 
the money released and invested in a property is now worth.
F = The amount Mrs H has been asked to pay HMRC above the tax she would have been 
expected to pay if she had invested differently and drawn her benefits in future. To be clear 
this includes any interest applied by HMRC up to the date of my final decision. In addition, 
any tax due as a result of Mrs Hs interest in the LLP.
If the notional value is greater than the actual value, then Mrs H has suffered a loss (after 
allowing for future taxation) equal to the difference.
In addition, it should pay Mrs H £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
UndertakingsMr Hs should undertake to pay the sum HMRC has asked her to pay, if the full amount of 
compensation is paid to her.
Mrs H should provide Wealthmasters with an undertaking to pay to it any amount of refund 
she receives from HMRC, following the conclusion of its investigations, in the event that it 
concludes less tax is due than Mrs H has already paid to it.
Wealthmasters should undertake to pay Mrs H additional money if, following the conclusion 
of HMRCs investigations, it concludes she has to pay more in tax than she has paid on 
account.
The undertakings must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the SIPP. Wealthmasters must meet any costs of drawing up the undertakings.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Wealthmasters 
pays the balance.
my provisional decision
I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out above. Wealthmasters 
Financial Management Ltd should provide details of its calculations to Mrs H in a clear and 
simple format.
My decision is that Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including the amount payable 
for distress and inconvenience but excluding costs) plus interest at 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision if the award is not settled with 28 days of Wealthmasters 
Financial Management Ltd receipt of Mrs Hs acceptance of that decision.
If an undertaking results in a future sum being owed to Mrs H by Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd which would take the total compensation payable to her above £150,000, it 
is required only to pay the extra sum to Mrs H up to the maximum of £150,000 as above.
Recommendation: If the total amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
above exceeds £150,000, I recommend that Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd pays 
Mrs H the balance, plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
If an undertaking results in a future sum being owed to Mrs H by Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd which would take the total compensation payable to her above £150,000, I 
recommend that Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should pay the balance as 
above.
However, if the compensation Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd needs to pay
Mrs H now already exceeds £150,000, and it does not accept my recommendation, it is not 
required to provide her with an undertaking to pay her more as per the scenario outlined 
above.
If Mrs H accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd, but my recommendation is not. Further, its unlikely that Mrs H can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance.
Mrs H should also be aware that by accepting my decision, it could affect her legal rights 
should any liabilities arise in respect of the limited recourse loan she used to purchase the 
shares or otherwise. So, Mrs H may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.FIRST PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs H complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that she was given 
unsuitable advice to invest in an unregulated collective investment scheme, namely Elysian 
Fuels, by Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd. In particular she complains:
The investment was unsuitable relative to her attitude to risk and categorisation as a 
retail client.
She wasnt made adequately aware she could lose her entire investment.
No due diligence was provided on the actual true value of the Elysian Fuels shares 
that have been shown to be worthless.
The subsequent purchase of the shares by Mrs Hs SIPP was unsuitable relative to 
her attitude to risk and investment requirements.
The risk of the investment being treated as an unauthorised payment with a 
subsequent tax charge was not explained to her.
background
In 2013 Mrs H and Mr H saw an adviser for Wealthmasters who recommended they each 
invest in Elysian Fuels, an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). Mrs H 
invested £10,707 but the investment also included a limited-recourse loan of just short of 
£54,000 which meant she was able to purchase shares for £64,500. Shortly after her 
investment the shares were purchased by her Pension Scheme.
Elysian Fuels wasnt successful and shares in the investment now have no value. HMRC 
also became involved because it said that the shares sold to the Pension Scheme were 
actually worthless, so it was treating the payment from the scheme as an unauthorised 
payment. As a result of this it said a tax charge of 40% would be applied and a further 
surcharge of 15%.
Both Mrs H and Mr H have complained but as the investments they made werent made 
jointly we have dealt with them as separate complaints.
Wealthmasters didnt uphold the complaint by Mrs H, although it provided one response for 
both her and Mr H. In summary it made the following points in its final response letter:
The fact find signed by Mrs H and Mr H showed significant joint assets and joint 
income £140,000 and that they didnt want to disclose information about liabilities.
The only mortgage debt stated in the fact find was for £249,000 and confirmed that 
there were no other loans or hire purchase agreements.
Mrs H and Mr H stated they didnt want to disclose information for things such as 
liabilities and pensions.
The advisers notes in the fact find record that Mrs and Mr H had 15 properties that 
were rented out and free of debt and they wanted to invest in a green product and 
shelter any capital gains.
Mrs and Mr H set out what they chose to do on their own in respect of the Elysian 
shares and their pension schemes and they only have themselves to blame for 
being at the mercy of HMRC.
They presumably had a significant supplementary income from the rented 
properties over the income from their business.
Mrs and Mr H were correctly assessed as adventurous and entrepreneurial clients 
and were confident and successful business people with significant wealth.Mrs and Mr H satisfied the requirements of the FCA to be certified as high net worth 
individuals and signed to confirm this.
The adviser states they would have the option to in-specie transfer the holdings into 
their SIPPs or if there are sufficient cash reserves the SIPPs could purchase the 
shares. This was just a summary of some of the future options they had and cant 
be taken as a recommendation.
The suitability report of 17 April 2013 states clearly that the report only refers to the 
recommendations in connection with a new investment and any other areas would 
be discussed under a separate report  and there was no other report as the 
adviser provided no other advice.
Mrs and Mr H only selected the basic level of customer service which was for no 
ongoing advice.
The application forms completed by Mrs and Mr H included the terms and 
conditions provided by Future Capital Partners who were promoters of the Elysian 
Fuels investment. The terms included a declaration stating that the investor had 
taken all necessary professional advice and are aware of the special risks in 
participating in an investment such as Elysian Fuels.
The suitability report clearly identified the risks of the investment.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he said:
The advice to Mrs H was suitable for her investment objective, her high 
adventurous risk profile and financial circumstances. She was made fully aware of 
the investment risks. She accepted the risks to her capital and proceeded on that 
basis.
Mrs H was a wealthy High Net Worth Individual and the Elysian Fuels investment 
was a small proportion of the overall assets she had declared to Wealthmasters.
Wealthmasters was given no indication that their wealth was lower than what was 
declared in the fact find or that their properties had mortgage liabilities attached.
Mrs H had also signed the Statement for a High Net Worth Individual and declared 
that she had in excess of the minimum required assets to be certified as such.
It was for Mrs H to give accurate information and to challenge the contents of the 
fact find and High Net Worth statement and not sign these if she disagreed with the 
contents.
Elysian Fuels was a UCIS and had higher risks attached but those were explained.
Mrs H had declared she was an experienced businesswoman and multiple property 
investor. She wanted the high risk Elysian Fuels investment and wouldve 
understood the product documentation and risk warnings that were given to her. 
She wanted and agreed to invest and had the capacity for any loss
The CMC didnt agree with the investigator. It provided a four page response, but in 
summary the main points it made were as follows:
Wealthmasters were involved in reverse engineered sales of Elysian Fuels to clients 
on the basis it was a vehicle designed to provide access to pension monies which 
has subsequently been deemed pension liberation and none of these risks were 
explained to the client.
It is a matter of fact that Mrs H wasnt a High Net Worth Individual. She had 
ownership of£500,000 of property with mortgages of £450,000. If she had a half 
share in unencumbered property worth £1.1 million as recorded in the fact find her 
income wouldve reflected this but she is shown as only earning £65,000 from her 
business.
The adviser was manufacturing documents and telling clients they had to sign to get 
access to the Elysian Fuels investment.Mrs H accepts she had an adventurous risk profile but not to the extent she would 
lose 100% of her entire pension.
Mrs H didnt want a green investment and the fact find records she didnt want to 
consider ethical investments. At the same time it stated she wanted to invest in a 
green product. This is another example of the adviser engineering a fact for his own 
benefit.
The adviser didnt highlight the potential HMRC tax charge of 55% on the 
acquisition of the Elysian Fuels shares by her Pension Scheme which is a direct 
result of allowing Mrs H to acquire shares on an enhanced valuation basis.
Even if Wealthmasters wasnt complicit in the pension investment it didnt carry out 
sufficient due diligence on Elysian Fuels.
Mrs H had no assets with capital gains tax considerations and the Elysian Fuels 
shares didnt produce a gain so why were the shares acquired by the pension fund? 
Or why didnt the pension fund not acquire the shares directly?
Mrs H didnt sign the suitability report.
The investigator responded but didnt change his opinion so the matter has been referred to 
me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it important to make clear to the parties that my findings and decision are made on a 
balance of probabilities  what is more likely than not  based on the evidence that I have 
been given. So I am not saying what definitely did or didnt happen.
I note that the CMC has said that Mrs H was wrongly categorised as a High Net Worth 
Individual. This allows promotion of a UCIS to a retail investor which would otherwise not be 
possible. I note the CMCs arguments about this categorisation. But I dont think it is 
necessary for me to make a finding on whether Mrs H was a High Net Worth Individual as 
this doesnt change the advisers responsibility to make a suitable recommendation. And I 
am not satisfied the Elysian Fuels investment was suitable for Mrs H for reasons I will 
explain.
I think it is important to set out what the adviser needed to do when assessing suitability. The 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the Handbook of the regulator sets out the 
necessary information that a firm must obtain at COBS 9.2.1. This includes the clients; 
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of designated 
investment; financial situation; and investment objectives.
A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for it to understand the 
essential facts about the client and have a reasonable basis for believing that the 
recommended investment meets the clients investment objectives; is such that the client is 
able to bear any related investment risk consistent with the investment objective; is such that 
the client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risk 
involved.
I am particularly concerned about the lack of information about Mrs Hs investment 
knowledge and experience. I note the fact find records that there were joint shares worth 
£350,000. But there is no further information about what these shares were, and the CMC 
has said the figure of £350,000 was actually the value of Mrs Hs and Mr Hs business.I think it is more like than not that this is the case given that there is provision in the fact find 
for identifying the product provider of the shares but not applicable has been put and the 
figure of £350,000 is repeated in the fact find but identified as value of business share.
So, I am not persuaded Mrs H did have any significant shareholding and even if she did 
there is still nothing to show what actual investment knowledge and experience she had, as 
there are no details of any shares. There is certainly nothing to show she had any 
knowledge or experience of UCISs such as Elysian Fuels so that she will have understood 
the risk of that type of investment.
I dont think such knowledge and experience can be assumed simply because she signed to 
say she was High Net Worth Individual, had a significant property portfolio and was 
entrepreneurial.
In the circumstances I am not satisfied that the adviser did have sufficient information to 
have a reasonable basis for believing Mrs H had the necessary experience and knowledge 
to understand the risks of the investment.
I have other concerns with the advice to invest in Elysian Fuels based on the information in 
the fact find. I am not satisfied that Mrs H was able to bear the investment risk of the 
investment. The only assets recorded were the joint property portfolio of £1.1 million, the 
shares of £350,000 - which as I have said I think was the value of the business not actual 
investments - and the joint bank account of £30,000.
So, based on the information in the fact find the only money Mrs H actually had access to 
was the money in the joint account. Based on her being entitled to half of this the investment 
in Elysian Fuels was over 70% of her available cash. It is quite possible her financial position 
was better than this, but the adviser had to base his advice on the information that was 
available to him.
There are also discrepancies in the fact find. Mrs H clearly answered no to questions about 
whether there were countries, sectors, companies, or funds she did or didnt want to invest 
in. She also answered no to the question whether she wanted to consider ethical 
investments.
It is only in the handwritten notes of the adviser that it is stated that Mrs H wanted to invest in 
a green product and the notes refer to the adviser discussing green oil with her. Given Mrs H 
had clearly indicated she had no preferences with regard to investments I think it is more 
likely than not that the only reason there is reference to investing in a green product is 
because the adviser suggested this, not because this was something she had any interest in 
herself.
So, I am not satisfied that one of her objectives was actually to invest in a green product. 
The CMC has pointed out that the adviser himself was already invested in Elysian Fuels. I 
think this also calls into question the basis of his advice.
I think it is very unlikely he researched a suitable investment for Mrs H, as the notes in the 
fact find indicated he would do. I think it is more likely than not - given he was already 
invested in the investment and made reference to investing in a green product and 
discussing green oil - that the adviser always intended to recommend Elysian Fuels.
I think it is also of note that Mrs Hs objectives and requirements set out in the suitability 
report appear to be a list of the characteristics of the Elysian Fuels investment rather than 
Mrs Hs actual objectives.When looked at as a whole the fact find and suitability letter read very much as if the adviser 
has included information that doesnt reflect Mrs Hs actual needs and objectives but seeks 
to justify the recommendation made instead. I think this is an investment that was driven by 
the adviser rather than based on Mrs Hs needs.
Taking into account the various issues I have identified I am not satisfied that the Elysian 
Fuels investment was a suitable recommendation.
That is not the end of the matter though as Mrs H sold the shares in Elysian Fuels to her 
Pensions Scheme. Wealthmasters has said that this was her choice and not on advice from 
the adviser who only referred to this as an option. It has also pointed to the suitability report 
stating that the report was only in relation to the new investment and any other areas would 
be discussed under a separate report.
But the adviser didnt just refer to selling the shares to the Pension as an option as 
Wealthmasters has suggested. And it is wrong to say, as it has said, that there is no 
documentation whatsoever to demonstrate it advised Mrs H in relation to the sale of shares 
to her Pension Scheme. The adviser actually stated specifically he had given such advice in 
the fact find, when he wrote:
I have also advised (my emphasis) them to shelter capital gains either in a pension by 
making an in- specie transfer or selling the investment to the pension, we discounted an 
offshore trust due to the ongoing fees.
So, I am satisfied that the adviser did advise Mrs H to either transfer the investment in-
specie or sell it to her Pension. In the circumstances, whilst the adviser may have had no 
further involvement in the sale of shares to the Pension Scheme, I think she only proceeded 
to do that because that is was what he recommended she should do.
It clearly wasnt just something she set out to do on her own as Wealthmasters suggested. 
So, I think it was foreseeable she would do this and the consequences of her doing so are 
something it is responsible for.
What Wealthmasters should do to put things right.
There is no reason to think Mrs H wouldnt have invested the money she put into Elysian 
Fuels in a different investment. The CMC has not suggested she wasnt an adventurous 
investor and given the answers she gave to the risk assessment questionnaire it seems 
clear that it is appropriate to treat her as such. Mrs Hs investment now has no value. So 
Wealthmasters should compare this as against the FTSE All Share Index and pay the 
difference to Mrs H.
If Mrs H hadnt invested in Elysian Fuels, she would not have ended up selling the shares in 
it to her Pension Scheme as the adviser suggested. So, she would not have been in the 
position she is now in with regard to HMRC. I think in the circumstances Wealthmasters 
should also pay the tax and any other costs HMRC says is payable as a result of this
.
I also think Mrs H has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of the unsuitable 
advice, in particular because of what has happened with regard to HMRC. I think 
Wealthmasters should pay £300 for this.
my provisional decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Limited has to calculate and pay the redress as set out above.I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my second provisional decision and 
providing any further information or argument. Mrs Hs representative said she had nothing 
further to add. Wealthmasters didnt agree with my second provisional decision. In summary 
it made the following key points:
The ombudsman  has not come  to a fair and reasonable  decision  for all parties.
He has referred  to other  advisers  who advised  Mrs H and it is clear  that the 
pension  adviser  must  bear some  of the compensatory  costs,  as must  the 
pension  administrators  for the lack of due diligence  when  accepting  the Elysian  
Shares  into the SIPP.
The ombudsmans  findings  place  the whole  of the responsibility  at the door of 
Wealthmasters  and that is unjust  and not in line with our services  policy  or 
responsibility.
We should  make  sure that all parties  bear responsibility  and are held 
responsible  for wrongdoing.
It is its view that the pension  adviser  is responsible  for the advice  to transfer  the 
pensions  and recommended  the secondary  planning  and should  compensate  
Mrs H accordingly.
Why has an FSCS  claim  not been  made  on behalf  of Mrs H.
The pension  administrators  should  also pay part of the award  for their regulatory  
failure.
It doesnt  agree  that it is at fault but will of course  be bound  by the decision,  but 
the other  parties  must  be made  to meet  a proportion  of the award.
Mrs H should  assign  her rights  regarding  any claim  against  the other  firms  to it.
The tax position  is incorrect  in that as the HMRC  investigation  hasnt  concluded  
and until it is Mrs H has no liability  and has suffered  no loss.
If Mrs H enters  into a voluntary  agreement  with HMRC  then this is in full and 
final settlement  and no refund  will be payable  so it would  not be fair to make  it 
pay anything  until matters  are finalised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Wealthmasters has said it isnt at fault but has provided no further argument or information 
in response to my findings that it had advised Mrs H, both to invest in Elysian Fuels and put 
the investment in her SIPP and that the advice wasnt suitable. In the circumstances there is 
no basis for me to change the findings I have already made about this. In short, I am 
satisfied that the advice to invest in Elysian Fuels was unsuitable and that as the adviser 
also advised Mrs H to put the investment in her SIPP it is responsible for the tax 
consequence of her doing this.
Wealthmasters has raised two main issues with the proposed redress set out in my second 
provisional decision. It says that the redress isnt fair because there are other firms that have 
responsibility for the investment being put into the SIPP and those firms should pay part of 
the redress. It also argues that it isnt appropriate to award anything regarding the tax as 
HMRC hasnt finalised its investigation and no loss has been incurred.
The other firms
Wealthmasters argue that the firm that provided a pension suitability report should pay part of the redress. It has also referred to the firm that administered her SIPP. I want to make 
clear that my role is to consider the complaint Mrs H has referred to us about 
Wealthmasters. No complaint has been referred to our service about any other firm and it 
isnt for me to tell Mrs H she must such a complaint before I can consider this complaint. It 
also isnt appropriate for me to make findings in this complaint about firms who are not the 
subject of the complaint.
Furthermore, the firm that provided the pension suitability report is no longer trading, as 
Wealthmasters is aware. So, it wouldnt be possible for a complaint about that firm to be 
referred to us. Any such complaint would have to be made to the FSCS. Wealthmasters 
knows this, as it has asked why an FSCS claim hasnt been made on behalf of Mrs H. As I 
have said, my role is to consider the complaint made against Wealthmasters, not to advise 
Mrs H on other avenues she could pursue. 
There is no requirement on her to make a claim to the FSCS and such a claim would 
probably not be appropriate anyway. The FSCS is a fund of last resort and a claim should 
only be made to it if there isnt another avenue for a person to go down. That is not the case 
here, as I have found Wealthmasters responsible for Elysian Fuels ending up in Mrs Hs 
SIPP and said it must pay redress accordingly.
In summary, I have found that Wealthmasters is responsible for Mrs H investing an 
unsuitable investment and that investment ending up in her SIPP and the redress I have 
awarded is based on my findings about this. It is fair and reasonable that Wealthmasters is 
responsible for the redress that arises from what it did wrong. The fact that Mrs H could 
potentially bring a claim against another firm doesnt make the redress I have said it must 
pay unfair.
Wealthmasters argues I should require Mrs H to assign to it her rights to pursue the other 
firms. I am not satisfied it is appropriate for me to give such a direction. As I have indicated a 
claim to the FSCS would not be appropriate in any event. 
The tax liability.
Wealthmasters has said it has obtained advice about the tax liability - although it hasnt 
provided a copy of that advice for me to consider. Based on that advice it says that as 
HMRC hasnt completed its investigation Mrs H hasnt suffered any loss as she doesnt have 
to pay anything. This is an issue that has been considered by our service and the redress I 
have set out is based on our approach in such cases.
Mrs H has received a without prejudice offer from HMRC to settle her potential tax liability. I 
am not satisfied it is unreasonable for her to settle her potential tax liability by paying an 
agreed amount to bring matters to a close with HMRC, rather than have this hanging over 
her head with the potential that she could end up paying more. 
Even if she pays this as a payment on account rather than in settlement of her tax liability, I 
dont consider that would be unreasonable. So, I think awarding redress on the basis she 
pays HMRC is fair and reasonable.
If Mrs Hs potential tax liability is settled by way of that payment that would conclude the 
enquiries into Mrs Hs tax liability. So, there would be no ongoing investigation by HMRC that 
would lead to it concluding Mrs H isnt liable to tax or that the tax is less than she has paid in 
any event.
Even if HMRC did continue its investigation despite the settlement and concluded that her 
tax liability was less she would still have lost the money she paid out, if she couldnt claim anything back as Wealthmasters has said would be the case. So, it would still be fair and 
reasonable Wealthmasters pay this amount to her. 
In the alternative, if the money paid to HMRC doesnt settle her potential tax liability and its 
subsequent investigation concludes her tax liability is less than what she has paid she would 
then be able to claim something back. In that situation the redress I have set out requires her 
to undertake to pay this back to Wealthmasters, so she would not benefit from this.
Putting things right
Wealthmasters should calculate the following on the date of my final decision:
Notional position = A+B where:
A = Value of Mrs Hs SIPP if the money used to purchase shares in Elysian Fuels had 
instead been invested in funds in line with the FTSE ALL Share Index at the date of 
calculation. I think this is an appropriate benchmark to use given Mrs Hs circumstances 
and risk appetite.
B = The value of Mrs Hs initial contribution of £10,707 to Elysian Fuels which she would 
have retained if she hadnt invested in the scheme.
Actual position = C+D+E  F where:
C = Value of current pension.
As the investment held in the SIPP is illiquid (so cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, I 
think it is reasonable to assume the investment has no current value and there is 
no prospect of any future return. On that basis it is fair to make no allowance for 
a current or future value. For that reason, the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil.
D = Value of any interest Mrs H held in the LLP. I consider this value to be nil and I do 
not think there is any reasonable prospect of her interest having any value in the future.
E = Current value of the money released to Mrs H from the sale of Elysian shares by him 
to the SIPP. As explained above Mrs H will need to provide evidence to establish how 
much the money released and invested in a property is now worth.
F = The amount Mrs H has been asked to pay HMRC above the tax she would have been 
expected to pay if she had invested differently and drawn her benefits in future. To be 
clear this includes any interest applied by HMRC up to the date of my final decision. In 
addition, any tax due as a result of Mrs Hs interest in the LLP.
If the notional value is greater than the actual value, then Mrs H has suffered a loss 
(after allowing for future taxation) equal to the difference.
In addition, it should pay Mrs H £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Undertakings
Mrs H should undertake to pay the amount put forward by HMRC - either in settlement 
of her tax liability or as a payment on account - if the full amount of compensation is 
paid to her.Mrs H should provide Wealthmasters with an undertaking to pay to it any amount of 
refund she receives from HMRC, following the conclusion of its investigations, in the 
event that it concludes less tax is due than Mrs H has already paid to it.
Wealthmasters should undertake to pay Mrs H additional money if, following the 
conclusion of HMRCs investigations, it concludes she has to pay more in tax than she 
has paid on account.
The undertakings must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the SIPP. Wealthmasters must meet any costs of drawing up the 
undertakings.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that 
Wealthmasters pays the balance.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should provide details of its calculations to 
Mrs H in a clear and simple format.
My decision is that Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including the amount payable 
for distress and inconvenience but excluding costs) plus interest at 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision if the award is not settled with 28 days of Wealthmasters 
Financial Management Ltd receipt of Mrs Hs acceptance of that decision.
If an undertaking results in a future sum being owed to Mrs H by Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd which would take the total compensation payable to her above £150,000, it 
is required only to pay the extra sum to Mrs H up to the maximum of £150,000 as above.
Recommendation: If the total amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
above exceeds £150,000, I recommend that Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd pays 
Mrs H the balance, plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
If an undertaking results in a future sum being owed to Mrs H by Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd which would take the total compensation payable to her above £150,000, I 
recommend that Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should pay the balance as 
above.
However, if the compensation Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd needs to pay Mrs 
H now already exceeds £150,000, and it does not accept my recommendation, it is not 
required to provide her with an undertaking to pay her more as per the scenario outlined 
above.
If Mrs H accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd, but my recommendation is not. Further, its unlikely that Mrs H can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance.
Mrs H should also be aware that by accepting my decision, it could affect her legal rights 
should any liabilities arise in respect of the limited recourse loan she used to purchase the 
shares or otherwise. So, Mrs H may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman