DRN-3123029
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
he made under his car insurance policy following an incident. Skyfire declined Mr Gs claim 
because the MOT on his car had expired. 
What happened
Mr G was involved in an incident with another car and he made a claim to his insurer, 
Skyfire. He collided with another vehicle as he was turning into a car park and accepted fault 
for the incident. 
Skyfire said because Mr Gs cars MOT had expired, it wouldnt meet his claim. Mr G 
complained to Skyfire but it didnt change its decision. So Mr G asked us to look at things for 
him. 
Our investigator considered the relevant insurance guidance and our approach. She 
explained that the reason why Mr G hadnt prevented the MOT from expiring wasnt the 
issue in this case. 
She said that for Skyfire to show it acted reasonably, it needed to show there was a link 
between Mr Gs car being unroadworthy and the incident. As Skyfire hadnt shown this, she 
didnt think it had been fair to Mr G and recommended his complaint should be upheld.
The investigator recommended Skyfire consider Mr Gs claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Skyfire didnt agree. Ive addressed its comments in my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We take into account what the policy says, as well as industry practice and legislation.
Skyfires policy says it will not meet a claim for loss or damage if the car isnt covered by a 
valid MOT. 
The relevant guidance weve applied to this case is from the Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook: ICOBS 8.1.2. In summary, this section says an insurer can only decline a 
consumer claim due to a breach of policy condition if its material to the loss. For example, 
as in this case, a condition of the policy is that the vehicle is roadworthy. If an un-roadworthy 
car is involved in an accident, the insurer can only decline the claim if it can show the issues 
with the car would have been picked up by a MOT and these issues were connected to the 
accident.
In response to the investigators view, Skyfire has referred to the Insurance Act 2015. The 
Insurance Act 2015 says the insurer cant turn down the claim if the breach didnt increase 
the likelihood of the loss that actually occurred in the circumstances it occurred. But the onus 
is on the commercial customer to show that there is no link to the damage that occurred and 
the breach of the condition. 
However, as Mr G wasnt a commercial customer of Skyfires, I dont think the Insurance Act 
2015 applies in this case. 
The purpose of the MOT test is to check if a vehicle is roadworthy. Skyfire hasnt provided 
anything to show that Mr Gs wasnt roadworthy and made no attempt to check this when he 
made his claim. In order to decide Skyfire acted reasonably, Id need to be satisfied that 
there was evidence that the incident was most likely caused by the expired MOT. Skyfire 
hasnt provide any evidence of this. 
So Im upholding Mr Gs complaint in line with the investigators recommendations.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited 
to reconsider Mr Gs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman