DRN-1558188
Complaint
Mrs and Mr T took out a mortgage in 1993 with Nationwide Building Society and were sold a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy at the same time. They say they were 
mis-sold this type of cover and gave many reasons why.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs and Mr T its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, I'm afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
These events were some 27 years ago now and the mortgage and PPI were also redeemed 
many years ago too. So its no surprise we no longer have the physical records showing that 
Mrs and Mr T agreed to buy this PPI.
However, Nationwides electronic records show us that this was a switch to a new fixed rate 
mortgage which was incentivised. Weve seen a few of these Nationwide cases from around 
the 1990s, where getting the discounted fixed rate deal depended on the consumer also 
opting for certain types of Nationwide products. Quite often PPI was such a product and it 
looks like this is what happened here.
Its probably not common knowledge that this practice was allowed under the rules that 
existed at the time. In short, the consumers didnt need to opt for the special fixed rate deal 
and so they wouldnt have needed to buy PPI if it was something they felt they didnt want. 
On the other hand, if they did want the special discounted mortgage rate, they had to agree 
to pick PPI (or sometimes another form of insurance).
Given the many cases weve seen like this one, I can use my knowledge and experience to 
say that Mrs and Mr T got a special discounted rate by accepting these conditions. And Im 
afraid they were under no obligation to do so because they could just as easy take their 
business elsewhere, or indeed opt for a more flexible Nationwide product.
Obviously I cant say after such a long time that Mrs and Mr T were told everything they 
ought to have been told. But they would have known that getting the mortgage was their own 
decision. Mr T also appears to have been the only person covered by the PPI so I think there 
must have been at least some form of discussion. He also appears to have been eligible for 
the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these 
policies. The price seems to me to be comparable with similar policies from around that time period and at around £12 per month, Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for 
them. 
Mrs and Mr T said they didnt need the cover because they both had sickness protection with 
his job. But, as Ive said, only Mr T was covered and as a non-advised sale it was their 
decision about agreeing to this particular mortgage deal. I dont know why they opted for it, 
but it was secured against their home and so the consequences of them not being able to 
keep up payments could have been serious. I also note that in the event of a successful 
claim, the PPI cover was payable for up to 24 months. This would have been in addition to  
and much longer than - any other means Mr T already had in place at the time. I think the 
PPI was of use.
Overall, I think theres evidence that Mrs and Mr T probably engaged in the discussions 
about this sale and went through a number of steps to get the policy. The policy was part of 
a wider incentive to take the particular mortgage deal and other options would have been 
available.
Im very sorry to have to disappoint Mrs and Mr T.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ts complaint. And I dont direct Nationwide Building Society to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman