DRN-3330816
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy which how much Moneybarn No.1 Limited sold a car for after shed 
surrendered it under a conditional sale agreement she had with them. Shes also unhappy 
with the total amount repayable under the agreement.
What happened
In October 2018, Miss F was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. She paid a deposit of £400 and the agreement was for £12,580 over 60 
months, with monthly payments of £494.13. 
Miss F fell behind with the payments and, in August 2019, the agreement was terminated 
because of the arrears. In October 2019 she signed a Consent Order, agreeing to a 
repayment plan so she could keep the car. The Order detailed the amount outstanding under 
the agreement, including the fees and arrears.
Miss Fs financial situation changed, and in December 2020 she asked if she could return 
the car. The car was collected and later sold at auction for £7,500. This left £12,548.89 
outstanding on the agreement, which Miss F was still required to pay.
Miss F complained to Moneybarn that theyd sold the car for less than its value, and that 
shed been overcharged under the finance agreement when she was supplied with the car. 
Moneybarn didnt think theyd done anything wrong, so Miss F brought her complaint to us 
for investigation.
Our investigator said the agreement Miss F originally signed clearly detailed the total amount 
payable. And he thought it was reasonable for Miss F to have been aware of the purchase 
price of the car, as well as its condition, including the age and mileage. So, he thought it was 
her choice to take the car at the price offered, and if she wasnt happy with any detail of the 
car, she had the option to negotiate the sale price, or walk away from the sale. And, because 
Moneybarn werent involved in the sales process, it wasnt for them to ensure the sale price 
reflected the age, condition, and mileage of the car.
The investigator also said that Miss F was provided with pre-contract information, and a copy 
of the finance agreement, which clearly set out the costs of the agreement. And, when she 
signed the Consent Order, this also detailed the amount outstanding. So, he thought Miss F 
had been adequately advised at both the outset of the agreement, and when the repayment 
plan was agreed.
Finally, the investigator said Moneybarn have no control over the price someone is willing to 
pay for a car at auction. And that he hadnt seen any evidence that the car was sold for 
substantially below its market value. So, he didnt think Moneybarn had done anything 
wrong, or that they needed to do anything more.
Miss F didnt agree with the investigator. She said the car had 95,000 miles when it was 
financed, and she did an additional 25,000 miles while it was in her possession. So, she 
didnt think the figure Moneybarn charged was reflective of the cars worth, and that 
Moneybarn were not supposed to finance a car over 80,000 miles.  Because of this, shes 
asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss F was supplied with a car under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Miss F electronically signed on 9 October 2018. The 
agreement clearly states the amount of credit (£12,580), the interest rate (48.9%), and the 
total amount payable under the agreement (£29,553.67). It also confirms the details of the 
car Miss F was being supplied with, and the price shed agreed to pay for this.
Im satisfied that the terms of the agreement, and the overall costs involved, were made 
clear to Miss F at the outset. And I havent seen anything to show me that Miss F signed the 
agreement under duress. Given this, Im satisfied that Miss F made a reasoned decision to 
accept the terms of the agreement. And, if she was unhappy with the overall costs involved, 
she couldve chosen to either finance the car through a different finance provider, or not to 
have taken the car.
Miss F has also indicated that she overpaid for the car. Again, she was fully aware of the 
price and condition of the car, including its age and mileage, at the outset. And, with no 
evidence that she was in some way forced to purchase the car, Im satisfied she couldve 
chosen to negotiate the purchase price, or walk away from the sale, if she wasnt happy. 
Whats more, I havent seen anything to show me that Moneybarn were unable to finance a 
car with more than 80,000 miles on the clock. So, I dont think they acted improperly or 
illegally by offering Miss F the finance.
The statement of account shows that Miss F started missing payments in December 2018 
and, by July 2019, Moneybarn had issued a default notice. This notice, dated 9 July 2019, 
confirmed the outstanding balance was £27,346 41, although Miss F would receive an 
interest rebate if the agreement was settled early.
The Consent Order, which Miss F signed on 20 October 2019, confirmed the outstanding 
balance, inclusive of court ordered costs, was £26,760.90. And, in a letter dated 14 January 
2021, Moneybarn advised Miss F that the outstanding balance was £19,986.98.
As such, not only am I satisfied that Miss F was aware of the total amount payable at the 
outset, Moneybarn also advised her of the total amount payable at key points throughout the 
time she was in possession of the car. When Miss F asked to return the car, Moneybarns notes indicated they expected the value 
of the car to be around £11,700. But, given its age, mileage, and condition; on the day of the 
auction the car only sold for £7,500. I cant hold Moneybarn responsible for the car not 
achieving the sale price either they or Miss F expected, and I havent seen anything to show 
me that Moneybarn specifically instructed that for the car should be sold for a lower price. 
So, I dont think Moneybarn did anything wrong in accepting the highest bid.
I appreciate that, in hindsight, Miss F may feel she entered into a bad bargain. She paid 
more for the car in 2018 than she now thinks it was worth at the time. And she took out an 
agreement which, due to changes in her circumstances, she couldnt afford to keep paying. 
Which resulted in the car being sold and the outstanding balance under the agreement still 
needing to be paid. But Miss F made free and fully informed choices in 2018, and what 
subsequently happened doesnt mean that Moneybarn acted incorrectly. So, for these 
reasons, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman