DRN-3768372
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands)
has rejected his claim for dental treatment for his dog.
I have previously issued a provisional decision in this case in response to which I received 
further comments from Red Sands and from Mr G. These have caused me to change my 
view of this case and Ill explain why below.
What happened
On 1 April 2022 Mr G took out an insurance policy with Red Sands to cover his dog which Ill
refer to as P. The policy includes up to £1,000 for dental treatment for P.
On 16 April 2022 Mr G took P to the vet for dental discomfort. On 21 April 2022 P had dental
surgery for the extraction of a tooth. This cost Mr G £902. He claimed for this from Red
Sands who rejected his claim.
Red Sands referred to Ps previous veterinary history. It noted from this that on 3 October
2018 Ps notes stated, Oral exam plaque accum on carnassials, adv dental care, and his
notes on 14 July 2019 stated mild dental staining only.
Red Sands has referred to a policy term which states:
We will pay up to £1,000 for dental treatment caused by an accident or illness as long
as a dental examination was carried out by a vet within the last 12 months that
confirms that there were no previous dental injuries, illnesses or observable changes
to Ps teeth from his normal state, condition or appearance. If you are unaware of Ps
medical history, you will need to provide us with evidence of a recent dental
examination from a vet to confirm that there arent any existing dental issues."
Red Sands has said that there are no clinical notes advising of the condition of Ps teeth
within 12 months of P being seen for his dental problem. It referred to the vets notes at the
time of Ps treatment on 18 and 21 April 2022 which stated:
"- can see ++Calc loose incisors and calc build up, gum recession"
"Missing dentition before scales: 102, 110, 203, 205, 210 401, 405, 411, 305, 311
Dental conditions: show periodontitis, gingival reduction, tartar (see dental chart)
Mobility present: 201, 403, 402, 302, 303
Need for extraction:302, 303, 403, 306, 201, 107"
Red Sands rejected Mr Gs claim on the ground that as Mr G had taken P to the vet the day
after the expiry of the 14-day period during which no claim could be made, the condition of
Ps teeth wouldve been present prior to the date of his claim. It says that Ps dental disease
was pre-existing, and no dental check had been recorded within 12 months as required by
the policy.
Mr G says that P had had veterinary health checks on 14 July 2019 (reporting mild dental
staining only), 4 August 2019, 10 May 2021 and 5 June 2021. Hes provided a letter from Ps
vet confirming that the health checks included a dental examination. He says that none of
these dental examinations recorded any issues with Ps teeth other than plaque and mild
staining. He says he brushed them regularly to address the staining as advised by the vet.
They were also regularly cleaned and de-scaled by Ps dog groomer. Had there been any
other dental issues, he says the vet wouldve told him.
As he wasnt happy with Red Sands rejection of his claim he brought his complaint to this
service. Our investigators view was that as Mr Gs policy requires a dental check to be
carried out within 12 months of the claim reporting the current condition of the teeth, and
because she hadnt seen any evidence of this, she didnt consider that Mr Gs claim met the
terms and conditions of his policy, so Red Sands hadnt acted unfairly in rejecting Mr Gs
claim.
Mr G asked that an ombudsman review his complaint. I issued a provisional decision 
upholding his complaint on the basis that Ps notes only referred to plaque and mild staining 
and that dental checks had been carried out in satisfaction of the terms of the policy and 
these didnt indicate any other issues with Ps teeth.
In response to my provisional decision Ive received further comments from Red Sands, Mr 
G and the vet who treated P, and these have now caused me to reconsider my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im no longer upholding Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Gs policy and in particular the definition of Pre-existing
Conditions, which is:
Any claim or costs for existing conditions, which means any injury or illness that
relates to or results from an accident, injury, illness or where [P] showed observable
changes to his normal healthy state, condition, appearance, bodily functions or
behaviour that could be observed visually, diagnostically or otherwise before or within
14 days of your policys original start date.
Ps veterinary notes make limited reference to the condition of Ps teeth before the treatment
that Mr G is claiming for on 21 April 2022. But they do show that health checks, which 
include a dental check, had taken place on 10 May 2021 and 5 June 2021, so within 12 
months of the date of Mr Gs claim. They therefore complied with the requirements of Ps 
policy. 
In response to my provisional decision, Ps vet confirmed that there is no mention in the 
notes from those health checks of dental issues until 16 April 2022 when Mr G raised his 
concern about Ps dental discomfort. She says that P was diagnosed with dental disease on 
18 April (although this doesnt appear in the notes). The notes for 18 April say that the vet 
could see ++Calc loose incisors and calc build up, gum recession adv needs dental. Ps vet 
therefore only repeated what the notes said and didnt clarify why previous health checks 
had not disclosed any dental health issues. 
Red Sands commented in more detail. It said:
We consider Ps dental disease to be pre-existing due to the severity of the dentaldisease noted here, this level of calculus/tartar, gum recession and loose teeth does 
not occur within 14 days, this is something that builds over a longer period of time  
hence the use of the term progressive, dental disease is progressive and it takes a 
long period of time to reach the level of dental disease that P reported with from 16th 
April 2022 onwards. The fact P had already lost 10 teeth prior to this dental also 
suggests a chronic nature to his dental disease. The dental disease seen in April 2022 
would be related to the plaque noted in 2018 and the dental staining (most likely 
plaque) noted in 2019 as these are known to be symptoms of the first stage of dental 
disease which then without appropriate treatment progresses to periodontitis, gum 
recession and tooth loss. Although we appreciate that P may have had regular dental 
descaling at a dog groomers with the very best intentions, conscious descaling is 
known to not be entirely effective at removing all plaque and tartar, especially the 
plaque and tartar that is present below the gum line, therefore this would remain and 
dental disease would still progress.
It also commented that periodontitis, gingival reduction (gum recession) and tartar had been 
noted on Ps remaining teeth, and that P had six further teeth removed during the procedure.
Im persuaded by Red Sands submissions that the dental disease that the vet says was 
diagnosed on 18 April 2022 was symptomatic of a progressive condition which wouldve 
been present before Mr G took out the policy for P on 1 April 2022, although he may not 
have been aware of this. Ps vet hasnt commented on why Ps notes at checks in 2021 dont 
mention loose incisors, missing/lost teeth, periodontitis, gingival reduction and calculus/tartar 
unless this is because these all developed since Ps last dental check on 5 June 2021.
I am now of the view that it is more likely than not that these conditions were present when 
Mr G took out the policy on 1 April 2022 and couldve been observed diagnostically at that 
time or within 14 days thereafter as they were observed diagnostically on 18 April and 21 
April. As such, they fall within the definition of pre-existing conditions and are therefore 
excluded from cover. My conclusion is that Red Sands has not been unfair or unreasonable 
in rejecting Mr Gs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman