DRN-3465726
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim under a group 
income protection insurance policy he had the benefit of, and the time taken to consider his 
claim.
What happened
Towards the end of 2018 Mr B became absent from work and was signed off by his GP with 
depression. 
Mr B had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through his employer,
which can pay out a percentage of his salary after hed been off work for 52 weeks
(the deferred period), monthly in arrears.
As Mr B hadnt returned to work, a claim was made on the policy around a year after the 
start of the deferred period. Aviva declined the claim. Based on the medical records it had 
obtained, Aviva concluded that the trigger for Mr Bs absence (and his extended leave) was 
primarily due to workplace issues, so not covered under the policy. 
Mr B didnt think that was fair, so he requested Aviva review its decision. He was also 
unhappy that Aviva had taken the decision without considering his occupational reports. 
After reviewing Mr Bs appeal and further medical evidence, Aviva maintained its decision to 
decline the claim. 
Further correspondence passed between the parties thereafter and in January 2019 Aviva 
issued a final response letter. It concluded that Aviva had fairly declined the claim but offered 
Mr B £250 in compensation for the length of time taken to consider his claim, before taking 
the decision to decline it in July 2020. 
Unhappy, Mr B complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr B 
didnt agree with our investigators findings and raised several points in reply. Our 
investigator considered these and ultimately concluded that they didnt change the outcome 
shed reached.
Mr B asked for an Ombudsmans decision. So, this complaint is now with me to consider 
everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
In this case, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, the financial benefit under the 
policy will be paid each month if a member is incapacitated throughout the deferred period. 
And, importantly, when making a claim, its for Mr B to demonstrate that he met the definition 
of incapacity as defined by the policy terms.
Under the policy (in conjunction with the policy schedule):
-Incapacity means the members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the 
duties of his or her job role as a result of their illness or injury
-Job role means a members job role with the policyholder at the time incapacity 
starts.
Taking into account the above definitions, Im satisfied that the focus is on whether Mr B was 
unable to perform the role he was doing because of illness (or injury) and this must have 
continued throughout the entirety of the deferred period.
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering
this issue. 
It isnt disputed that Mr B was signed off by his GP as being unable to work due to 
depression during the deferred period (and subsequently). Thats, of course, a relevant 
consideration here but the fact that Mr B was signed off by his GP (and his employer was 
advised by occupational health that he wasnt fit to work) isnt determinative.
Ive also taken into account what Mr B says about the policyholder accepting that he meets 
the definition of a disabled person as defined by section 6 of the Equality Act 2010. But it 
doesnt automatically follow that Mr B was incapable of performing his job role throughout 
the entirety of the deferred period as a result of illness.
Was Mr B unable to work due to illness?
Having considered the medical evidence, Aviva has concluded that the main trigger for Mr 
Bs absence from work in October 2018 was most likely perceived workplace issues. I dont 
think its unreasonably reached that conclusion. 
Its clear from the medical evidence that Mr B had been living with depression for a 
considerably long time prior to his sick leave, for which hed been taking medication for. 
Mr B says its due to his mental health issues  compounded by the death of a close family 
member  which caused him to be unable to work in October 2018.
Around a month before Mr Bs absence, his GP wrote that hed had a particularly traumatic 
experience over the last year surrounding the death  and circumstances  of a close family 
member. But he was still able to work then.
Ive also seen an occupational health report dated the end of October 2018  so shortly after 
the start of the deferred period. It reflects:
- From the information provided by Mr B, his symptoms are due to his perception of a 
combination of both personal and work-related issues. These can feasibly cause 
stress and negatively impact on health from a psychological / physical perspective.
- A recommendation was made to hold a meeting to address Mr Bs perception of work 
-place issues with the expectation that a pragmatic resolution is found suitable to 
both parties.Theres also a mental health assessment report dated July 2019 (so during the deferred 
period) which reflects that:
- In 2017, Mr B took a few weeks off work following a close family member dying and 
he was disciplined for taking this time off work. He fought his case - appealing in the 
months that followed which he found stressful. In the meantime, his role changed, 
and he was given different duties. He felt unsupported in his new task which 
compounded feelings of injustice and frustration. The first anniversary of the close 
family members death passed, and his mental health deteriorated at that point.
- He was appealing the decision not to receive any sick pay from his employer whilst 
off work.
- The trauma of losing a close family member had no doubt impacted his current 
presentation. But problems with dispute with his employers can certainly not be 
helping matters. 
- His thoughts were dominated by work issues, wanting to resolve matters and feel 
settled enough to return to employment.
Its further noted by occupational health in September 2019 that:
-  Mr B continued to perceive stress in relation to work issues. This issue may act as 
an obstacle for a successful return to work, and therefore, I would suggest 
management to hold an open discussion with the employee, and resolve workplace 
issues. 
- with regard to work, he expressed the view that there are some ongoing issues. He 
explained that he has raised concerns which are currently being dealt with by [a 
workplace conciliation service] 
-given that it is his perception that there are some ongoing work issues, I recommend 
that these are resolved as swiftly as possible as these are likely to act as a barrier to 
successful return to work in the future. I consider him fit to engage with any 
necessary meetings to make progress with this.
Theres also an entry in his GP notes dated March 2019 reflecting that he had ongoing low 
mood, slight improvement. Main issues stress from work not being supportive and poor 
sleep
So, although Mr B had been signed off work by his GP and not capable of attending his 
specific workplace for his employer    and occupational health advised that he wasnt fit to 
work during the deferred period -  Im not persuaded that he was unable to perform the role 
he was doing more generally for the deferred period because of illness. 
All in all, Im satisfied that the evidence supports Avivas position that workplace issues were 
the main trigger for him initially being off work sick. And its unlikely those underlying issues 
wouldve have existed if he was doing his job role at a different employer. Although, this 
coincided with the anniversary of the death of a close family member, I dont think Aviva has 
unreasonably concluded on a balance of probabilities that it was the workplace issues 
leading up to him being off sick, which were the main trigger. Im therefore satisfied Aviva has reasonably concluded that Mr B wasnt incapacitated as 
defined by the policy.
When making this finding Ive taken into account what Mr B says about Aviva discriminating 
against him by ignoring his mental health condition. Our service doesnt have the power to 
determine whether Aviva breached the Equality Act 2010 (the Act). Only a court can do 
that. However, when considering whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in this case, I 
am required to take the Act into account if its relevant law. 
Mr B says that hes disabled as defined the Act. Even if thats the case, I dont think Aviva 
has failed to take into account his mental health issues when considering the definition of 
incapacity under the policy. I think its considered the medical evidence and concluded that 
he doesnt meet that definition. For the reasons set out above, I think its fairly and 
reasonably reached that conclusion in this particular case.
When making this finding, I ve taken into account what Mr B says about still being unable to 
work, two years after his employment was terminated by the policyholder. Mr B says this 
supports his case that his absence was unrelated to work-related matters. However, I dont 
think Mr B being unable to work since his employment ended is determinative. Ive placed 
more weight on the medical evidence from the deferred period, which Ive summarised 
above. 
In the final response letter dated January 2021, Aviva has also said that the medical 
evidence doesnt show that Mr B was experiencing symptoms at a level that would impact 
his ability to do his job role for an extended period. I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by reaching this conclusion. Looking at the medical evidence from the 
deferred period, there isnt consistent and ongoing reference about how Mr Bs medical 
condition was impacting him - and his ability to carry out his job role. Further, Mr Bs 
symptoms  as reflected in the GP notes and other medical records from around the time of 
the deferred period - are largely self-reported. Mr Bs GP records during the deferred period 
also reflect that his symptoms fluctuated during this time; sometimes feeling better  other 
times feeling worse. 
Delays
Aviva accept that its service ought to have been better at times. Its said it shouldve chased 
up non-receipt of its employee questionnaire towards the start of Mr Bs claim and had it 
done so, the process wouldve started sooner. And so, its likely Mr B wouldve received its 
decision about the claim earlier. Its offered Mr B £250 compensation to acknowledge this.  
However, Aviva has also said that there were other delays caused by third parties outside of 
its control.
Looking at what happened here, Im satisfied that there were delays which Aviva wasnt 
responsible for. I think the £250 offered fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by Mr B as a result of what Aviva got wrong here. I can understand why Mr B 
was unhappy with this but I dont think the delay wouldve resulted in a different outcome to 
his claim; although as Aviva said, its likely a claims decision wouldve been made earlier if 
this initial delay hadnt happened.  
I understand the compensation payment of £250 hasnt yet been made to Mr B as Aviva 
doesnt have his bank account details. 
I know Mr B will be very disappointed with my decision. And I dont doubt that he has been 
through a very difficult time over many years. I hope it helps him to know that someone 
impartial and independent of the parties has looked into his concerns.Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr B £250 within 21 days from the date on 
which Mr B provides it with his bank account details to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by him.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint to the extent that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited ought to 
have reasonably provided him with a better service when assessing his claim. And direct 
it to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman