DRN-2829641
The complaint
Mr K says TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr K applied for a guarantor loan from TFS on 24 December 2014. It was for £5,000 over 60
months. The monthly repayment was £195.46 and the total repayable was £11727.60. 
Mr Ks application was accepted on 2 January 2015. understand there is an outstanding 
balance.
Mr K says the loan was unaffordable for him and TFS didnt carry out proper checks. He was 
on a zero hours contract of employment and the loan has left him unable to pay priority bills 
like rent and council tax. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said whilst TFSs 
checks were proportionate, it had not made a fair lending decision based on the information 
it gathered.
TFS disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to make a 
final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Mr K. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mr K could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr K. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr K, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ks loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan 
in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Mr K before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of his income. his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It checked his
credit file to understand his credit history. It asked for bank statements from the three 
months prior to the application to verify his declared income and expenditure. It also 
obtained a recent payslip, but it has not supplied a copy of this. It asked about the purpose 
of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined TFS concluded Mr K 
would have monthly disposable income (after the repayment of this loan) of £26.09 and so 
the loan was affordable. 
I think these checks were proportionate, however I dont think TFS made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
TFSs affordability assessment showed Mr K would have less than £30 disposable income 
remaining each month. TFS argues that it should be taken into account that Mr K had some 
discretionary expenditure (£60 for social activities) and so the £26.09 was sufficient to meet 
any unexpected costs. But Mr Ks loan was over a 60-month term and I dont agree that 
leaving him with this sum of money to cover any unexpected expenses was sustainable. I 
think TFS ought to have realised there was a high risk Mr K would at some point over the 
term of the loan struggle to make the repayments without incurring financial difficulties or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. 
In addition, and more crucially, TFS knew from Mr Ks bank statements that there was 
variability in his income (it was £775.41 in October 2014, £1538.98 in November 2014 and 
£739.15 in December 2014). He had declared his monthly income was £720 at the point of 
application. So I dont think it was fair for TFS to just take an average of those three months 
without understanding the discrepancy between what Mr K had declared, and the average 
TFS used of around £1030. Mr K has told us he was on a zero hours contract which explains the variability. So given the 
uncertainty of his income I dont thinking TFS can reasonably argue that a monthly 
disposable income of £26.09 (or even £86.09 if the discretionary spend on social activities is 
included) is sufficient for a loan with a 60-month term.  In a month where Mr Ks earning 
were closer to the level he declared  and what he actually took home in two of the months 
prior to this loan application - he would have no disposable income and the loan repayments 
would be unaffordable for him.
TFS also knew from the credit check it completed that whilst Mr K wasnt heavily indebted, 
he had defaulted on two accounts earlier in the year and was in arrears on two other 
accounts indicating he was struggling to manage his money. TFS argues that this loan was 
to allow Mr K to consolidate such debts and bring the payments on his utility bills up to date. 
But for the reasons set out above this does not change my conclusion as I find the checks 
TFS completed showed the loan was not sustainably affordable for Mr K.    
It follows I think TFS was wrong to lend to Mr K. I have also looked at whether TFS acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. I havent found any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr K to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr K made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ks loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ks loan account results in any capital balance remaining outstanding 
TFS should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr K.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr K a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ks complaint. TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman