DRN-2811960
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way Tandem Bank Limited communicated with him on a savings 
account he held with them. 
What happened
Mr T held a two-year fixed rate savings account with Tandem. At the end of year one, 
Tandem sent an account statement to Mr T. And at the end of year two, it sent another 
statement of interest paid for that second year. Mr T asked Tandem to provide a statement 
covering the two years hed held the account, so he could check the interest accrued over 
the entire period matched what hed been paid. 
Tandem said it only provided statements for one year at a time. Mr T complained. Tandem 
didnt think it had done anything wrong, but it apologised for not raising a complaint when it 
said it would and offered £20 compensation to reflect any inconvenience caused. Mr T didnt 
accept that, he wanted £150 compensation for Tandem not sending him a statement 
covering the two years, so he brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Tandem had provided 
Mr T with enough information for him to check the interest amounts, even though it hadnt 
been done with a combined statement covering the two years, as he wanted. She said whilst 
Tandem had provided £20 for not logging a complaint, as complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity, she wouldnt comment on that.
Mr T didnt accept that, so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tandem has said its system automatically generates the statements on a yearly basis, so it 
wasnt able to fulfil Mr Ts request to produce a separate statement covering the two-year 
period.
Ive checked the terms of Mr Ts account, it says the following about statements:
well provide statements annually, and at the end of the fixed period. You can also 
request one at any time. 
This doesnt say that the statement sent at the end of the fixed period will cover the entire 
fixed period. But I can see why Mr T might have been given that impression, given the above 
term says statements will be sent annually and at the end of the fixed period. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Mr T to think, based on what was written, that he may receive a 
statement covering the entire fixed period at the end. Tandem says its system doesnt allow 
for that to happen. But I think the wording could set this out more clearly. 
But my role is to decide if I think Mr T has lost out financially as a result, and I dont think he 
has.
Mr T explained he wanted a statement covering the two years so he could check hed been 
paid all of the interest he should have been. I think the information Tandem has provided him 
has enabled him to do that. He has his two annual statements, as well as a certificate of 
interest for tax purposes. And I havent seen anything to suggest Tandem hasnt paid the 
correct amount of interest it should have done. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
further.
This service can make awards where a business mistake has caused unnecessary distress 
or inconvenience to its customer. But Im not satisfied it has caused Mr T enough 
inconvenience for me to make a compensation award. Whilst it couldnt provide the 
information in one document, the information it has provided in relation to the interest is 
clear. So Tandem doesnt need to pay him £150 compensation.
I can see Tandem has offered Mr T some compensation for not logging the complaint when 
it said it would. As our investigator explained, this isnt something our service can review, as 
the handling of Mr Ts complaint by Tandem isnt a regulated activity. And so it isnt 
something this service can consider and falls outside of our jurisdiction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman