DRN-3090015
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled his claim following an 
escape of water from his bathroom. He says it delayed dealing with his claim and its 
settlement offer wasnt enough. Mr As Loss Assessor, Mr H, dealt with the claim on his 
behalf.
  
What happened
Mr A had buildings and contents insurance, including home emergency cover, with UKI. He 
made a claim following an escape of water from his bathroom which also damaged his 
kitchen below. UKI accepted the claim.
The home emergency engineer thought the leak was from the boiler cupboard but UKI 
advised Mr A to arrange a quote for Trace and Access (T&A) and repairs. Mr As contractor 
found that the leak had come from behind the hand basin.
UKI appointed a contractor to take detailed measurements and photos of the damage and, 
from that, it produced a schedule of work. Mr H also provided a schedule of work.
From here, the parties couldnt agree a way forward with the claim. UKI offered a cash 
settlement but Mr H didnt think it was enough. He thought UKI should pay compensation for 
the delays; increase its cash settlement offer; pay for the T&A Mr A had arranged, and waive 
the policy excess.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had handled the claim fairly. He proposed that UKI should:
provide an updated schedule of work to include removal and replacement of 
damaged wall tiles;
contribute 25% towards the cost of replacing the undamaged wall tiles;
provide a cash settlement which is the greater of the existing offer or its liability 
based on the updated schedule of works;
reimburse £660 which is the full cost of the T&A work;
reimburse late payment fees in respect of the T&A invoice if it receives evidence of 
any incurred, and
provide compensation of £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
After questioning some of the proposals, UKI accepted the outcome. But Mr H didnt think 
the requirements went far enough to resolve Mr As complaint.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Let 
me explain.
Firstly, I should confirm that UKI consented to our services consideration of issues which 
happened after its final response letter to Mr A. Further progress was made with the claim 
during our investigation and Mr A and UKI agreed the following:
reimburse £660 which is the full cost of the T&A work;
reimburse late payment fees in respect of the T&A invoice if it receives evidence of 
any incurred.
In addition, UKI agreed to the cost of repainting the bathroom ceiling and the cost of 
removing and refitting the bathroom suite to allow for the floor tiles to be replaced 
underneath. 
Having looked at the evidence relating to those issues, Im satisfied that the outcome the 
parties have agreed is fair. So, my decision focuses on the outstanding issues and those 
which havent specifically been agreed, which are:
Mr A wants UKI to cover the full cost of the wall tiles.
Mr H thinks additional work to that shown in the schedule will need completing.
He remains of the view that the cash settlement and compensation is insufficient.
Waive the policy excess.
Schedule of work
Mr H doesnt think UKIs schedule of work goes far enough. He says that further repairs are 
needed, such as to the wall battens. UKI offered to consider any further repairs which may 
become apparent once the work starts. Having considered this point, Im satisfied that UKIs 
response is fair. I cant reasonably expect it to include work in the schedule which might not 
be needed. So, unless evidence is provided which shows that further repairs are necessary, 
I see no reason to ask UKI to include anything more in its schedule of work.
Compensation
UKI agreed to our investigators proposal that it should pay £150 compensation for the way it 
handled the T&A element of Mr As claim. Mr A agreed with the proposal to reimburse him 
for the cost of the T&A, but he didnt agree the compensation amount. Ive thought about 
whether the sum proposed is enough and I think it is. Thats because UKI has agreed to 
cover the cost of the T&A so it has put matters right. The compensation, therefore, is to 
address the upset and inconvenience caused when UKI didnt make it clear to Mr A that it 
couldve arranged to do further T&A work, or that he neednt have paid for it to be done 
privately. I understand the invoice remained outstanding because Mr A felt sure UKI should 
cover the cost. Because of this he incurred fees. UKI has agreed to pay those fees on 
receipt of evidence, and I think thats fair. 
Mr H said Mr A had experienced unnecessary delays throughout his claim. Ive looked at the 
information, but I havent seen any evidence that UKI caused avoidable delays. While there were some delays due to the national lockdown, it seems that Mr H delayed providing 
information, certainly in the earlier months of the claim. 
So, overall, Im satisfied that the compensation of £150 is reasonable to address the T&A 
issue, but I see no reason to increase the award in the circumstances.
Wall tiles
Mr H doesnt agree with the proposal, and UKIs agreement, to cover the cost of 25% of the 
wall tiles replacements. He says that Mr As policy provided cover for undamaged bathroom 
suites, and the wall tiles should be included within that definition. Therefore, he thinks UKI 
should pay the full cost of replacing the undamaged wall tiles. 
Ive looked at the policy, which says:
What is insured
Matching sets and suites: covers cost of replacing undamaged bathroom suites and fitted 
kitchens if the damaged part cannot be repaired or replaced.
Ive thought carefully about this, but I cant agree with Mr H that wall tiles form part of a 
bathroom suite. While the policy doesnt define what is included, I dont think a person 
buying a bathroom suite would reasonably expect that to include wall tiles. So, on balance, 
Im satisfied that the policy only covers the actual furniture  the sanitaryware  which would 
be bought to match. There is no loss of match between the sanitaryware and the wall tiles, 
so Im satisfied that the 25% contribution from UKI towards the undamaged wall tiles is fair.
Cash settlement
UKIs cash settlement offer is based on what it would cost it to complete the work described 
in the schedule of work. UKI confirmed its costs are based on market rate, but will include a 
supplier discount. The policy says:
If we can repair or rebuild the damaged part, but we agree to use your suppliers or make a 
cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our  suppliers and 
therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged by your suppliers.
UKI offered to complete the work but Mr H declined. Looking at what the policy provides, Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable for UKI to make a cash settlement offer in line with its own 
costs. I dont think it did anything wrong here.
UKI originally offered Mr A a cash settlement of £2,560.56. Its updated offer, after agreeing 
to include the further work described here, is £2,745.51 after the policy excess has been 
deducted. That includes the cost of painting the ceiling, removing and refitting the bathroom 
sanitaryware to allow for floor tiling, and a 25% contribution to the wall tiles. Ive said UKIs 
work schedule is fair, and the settlement is what it would cost UKI in line with the policy 
terms, so Im satisfied that UKI made a fair cash settlement offer. I wont be asking it to 
increase its offer any further.  
Policy excess
Mr H thinks UKI should waive Mr As policy excess. Mr A made a valid claim which UKI 
accepted. His policy clearly sets out that an excess of £450 applies to a claim for escape of 
water. Everything discussed above puts matters right and Ive awarded compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience caused. The excess, therefore, is a valid deduction from the 
settlement and I wont be asking UKI to waive it.In summary, I uphold Mr As complaint because I dont think UKI handled his claim fairly to 
begin with. However, it took steps to put matters right throughout the course of our 
investigation and I havent seen anything which persuades me that it needs to do any more 
than it has already agreed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and U K 
Insurance Limited must, if it has not already done so:
provide Mr A with its updated schedule of works, which includes painting the 
bathroom ceiling, removal and refit of the bath and toilet to allow for re-tiling of the 
bathroom floor;
include the cost of the additional items in its cash settlement offer to Mr A, bringing 
the total to £2,745.51 after deducting the policy excess;
pay the full £660 cost for the trace and access work, plus any late payment fees 
evidenced by Mr A, and
pay Mr A £150 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman