DRN-3381974
The complaint
Mr R complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) has lost approximately 
£50,000 of his pension savings.
What happened
Mr R through his employer had a Group Personal Pension (GPP) with Standard Life. His 
employer decided to do a bulk transfer of the group policies to another provider.
Mr R says hed been monitoring his pension in the build up to this, he said he checked the 
value on Standard Lifes online portal and it reached a high of approximately £410,000. And 
the day before the transfer took place Mr R said the value was shown as around £375,00. 
Yet when the funds reached the new provider in March 2021 the value was only around 
£320,000. Mr R was alarmed by this and complained to Standard Life and then to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think there was any evidence Standard Life 
had done anything wrong.
Standard Life says it has done a comprehensive search of its systems and it cannot find any 
evidence of an error. 
Mr R appears to accept that the value of his GPP is correct but believes a second policy had 
been added to the value on the online portal and now may have been deleted. He wants 
evidence and information about the backups in place at Standard Life for holding customers 
policies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide this complaint I have to consider whether the balance of evidence suggests that 
Standard Life has misplaced approximately £50,000 of Mr Rs savings.
Mr R is adamant that he saw a value of around £410,000 on the online Standard Life portal 
and he strikes me as a credible individual, I see no reason to doubt his testimony.
Standard Life in the course of this complaint has provided compelling evidence that the GPP 
in question was valued properly when it was transferred to the new provider. Mr R was in a 
life-styling product and evidence has been provided to show the funds held didnt perform in 
a way that would explain the increase that Mr R says he saw on the online platform. So its 
clear the funds hadnt grown to the £410,00 Mr R says he saw. Mr R now accepts this but 
believes another pension fund from another source must have been joined to his GPP on the 
platform and then gone missing once the transfer took place.
Mr R received an annual statement in April 2020  which valued the policy at approximately 
£326,000. Prior to this in 2019, Mr R had transferred two policies into the GPP from other 
providers but these were both accounted for in the valuations provided in April 2020. 
Between then and the transfer occurring in March 2021, Standard Life has been able to 
account for the value of Mr Rs GPP   looking at the fund performance alongside the 
additional contributions made in that time. So for Mr Rs belief that Standard Life has lost 
£50,000 of savings to be correct, at some point between April 2020 and March 2021 this 
other policy worth approximately £50,000 must have been added to Mr Rs GPP on the 
platform and then gone missing again before the transfer. And that is Mr Rs position, that 
another policy of his was joined to his GPP.
But for that to be the case Id expect Mr R to have some evidence of the policy existing 
before this point. If it had just been transferred to Standard Life, Id expect Mr R to be able to 
show evidence of this (and of course Standard Life). And if this policy had been with 
Standard Life for some time prior and then added to Mr Rs GPP, Id again expect Mr R (or 
Standard Life) to have some evidence of the policy, like annual statements and or a record 
of where it had come from. Standard Life has searched its systems and has no record of 
another policy  its records show the GPP policy is the only one its ever had for Mr R. 
The only evidence of anything being wrong is Mr Rs testimony that he saw the values on 
Standard Lifes online platform  as Ive said Mr R seems honest and credible  but Ive 
seen no evidence he has lost any physical savings. To agree with Mr R, Id need to believe 
that a policy we have no evidence exists, was for some reason amalgamated for a short time 
with the GPP and then disappeared again with no trace. 
Adding this to what we know about the GPP value not accounting for the figure of £410,000, 
it seems the most likely explanation is a glitch or issue with Standard Lifes online portal. 
That said Standard Life says it has checked and its not aware of any issues with its online 
portal at the time and it wouldve expected this to have affected other customers it this was 
the case.
Ultimately the evidence leads me to conclude there is a very low possibility that Standard 
Life has lost £50,000 of Mr Rs savings. I just dont think its plausible that another policy was 
somehow added to the GPP on the online platform and then deleted again when there is no 
evidence of its existence. 
I dont know what the explanation is for what Mr R saw and I appreciate this will be an 
unsatisfactory answer for him. But Standard Life hasnt been able to provide one either and 
thats not to say it hasnt tried  I think it has been more than fair and reasonable in its 
searches for the missing money/policy that Mr R alleges has gone missing.
I appreciate Mr R thinks Standard Life should look some more but it has done searches, and 
nothing has been found. I dont think it needs to explain how its systems work and its 
backing up of data to answer this complaint. 
Mr R believes that he should have extra pension funds from previous employers  but who 
have now gone bust. It may be worth looking into this further, potentially ex-colleagues may 
be able to help him find where the company pensions are now held. There are also pension 
tracing services that may be able to help.
In conclusion after considering the evidence, Ive seen nothing to suggest Standard Life has 
done anything wrong and therefore I am unable to uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman