DRN-3724588
The complaint
Mr S complains that ReAssure Limited has failed to process a withdrawal from his pension 
savings in an efficient manner. In particular he complains that he was given incorrect 
information about the income tax that would be due on the withdrawal, and that the 
withdrawal wasnt processed in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr S held pension savings with ReAssure that were valued at approximately £100,000. He 
got in touch with ReAssure in January 2022 to enquire about withdrawing those pension 
savings and asked about how his withdrawal would be treated for income tax purposes. He 
was incorrectly told that the withdrawal wouldnt attract any income tax liability.
On 24 January Mr S returned the signed withdrawal paperwork to ReAssure. ReAssure 
accepts that it didnt complete the processing of that withdrawal as quickly as it should have. 
Mr S got in touch with ReAssure by phone on 21 February to chase the processing of his 
request. On that call Mr S was told that his pension withdrawal would be subject to income 
tax deductions and the net amount he would receive would be approximately £55,582.73. 
That amount was paid to Mr S shortly afterwards.
ReAssure has dealt with Mr Ss complaint in two responses. In the first letter it dealt with the 
delays in the payment being made. It sent Mr S a cheque for £150 for his inconvenience. 
And in the second letter it addressed the information hed been given about the income tax 
that would need to be paid. ReAssure told Mr S that it had been right to deduct the income 
tax  and it acknowledged the information hed been given in January had been incorrect. 
ReAssure offered to allow Mr S to cancel the withdrawal request and return the funds, 
placing his pension savings back into the position they would have been. And ReAssure sent 
Mr S a further cheque for an additional £300 to reflect his loss of expectation. Mr S told 
ReAssure that he was unable to cancel the withdrawal as he had already invested the funds. 
So, unhappy with ReAssures responses he brought his complaint to us.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that ReAssure 
had revised the incorrect information it had provided to Mr S before the withdrawal had been 
completed. And she noted that ReAssure had also offered Mr S the opportunity to cancel the 
transaction at a later date. She was satisfied that the funds that had been paid to Mr S by 
ReAssure were what he was entitled to receive. And the investigator thought that the 
compensation ReAssure had paid to Mr S, in relation to the delayed payment and the 
incorrect information was fair and reasonable.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators assessment. He said that he had relied on the 
information hed received from ReAssure, and by the time the error had been identified he 
was unable to reverse the financial decisions he had made. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There seems to be little disagreement that ReAssure provided Mr S with incorrect 
information about the income tax treatment of his proposed withdrawal when he called the 
firm in January 2022. Mr S says that information led him to take his decision to withdraw the 
entirety of his remaining pension savings. And he says that he has now been left with a 
significant tax charge that he might have avoided by withdrawing his pension savings over a 
longer period.
Mr S has explained that he conducted his own research into the taxation of pension 
withdrawals before he spoke with ReAssure. He says that from that research he concluded 
that some withdrawals might be taxed, whereas others could be paid tax free. So the advice 
he received was that it was necessary to confirm how his withdrawal would be treated by 
discussing the matter with his pension provider. And although the information ReAssure sent 
to him alongside the paperwork he needed to sign did explain that only 25% of a lump sum 
withdrawal would be tax free, I dont think that was sufficient to over-ride the verbal, and 
supposedly scheme specific, information Mr S had previously received.
I think it is clear, from ReAssures notes, that Mr S was very surprised to learn around the 
time the payment was ultimately made, that a large income tax deduction was being made. 
I think Mr Ss reaction supports his assertion that he had reasonably relied on the 
information ReAssure had provided to him.
Mr S didnt ask ReAssure to stop his withdrawal at that time. He has explained that he still 
thought the information hed received in January was likely to be correct, and it was the more 
recent processing that was in error. I am not drawing any adverse conclusions from Mr Ss 
decision not to stop his withdrawal at that time.
But, over time, I think it became clear to Mr S that it was in fact the information hed received 
in January that was incorrect. And, in order to put things right, ReAssure offered Mr S the 
opportunity to cancel his withdrawal instruction and return the monies to his pension savings. 
I think taking that course of action would have reasonably mitigated the incorrect information 
that had been previously given to Mr S.
Mr S has told us that he used the proceeds from his pension savings to make some 
investments into cryptocurrency, and to repay some debts that he owed. He has provided us 
with evidence of his investments, and copies of his bank statements showing some debt 
repayments to family or friends.I think it is important to note that the majority of the cryptocurrency investments were made 
before Mr S had been given firm information about the pension benefits he might receive, or 
after he was made aware of the original error. And the debt repayments also appear to have 
been made after the errors in the information had been corrected by ReAssure. I accept that 
Mr S has told us that he thought the original information was most likely to be correct, but 
I dont think it reasonable that he would have continued to make discretionary but irrevocable 
spending decisions whilst that clarification was being sought.
So I am not persuaded that there were compelling reasons why Mr S could not have 
accepted ReAssures offer at that time. It is likely he could have delayed, or reversed his 
cryptocurrency investments, or not made the debt repayments. Instead I think it more likely 
that Mr S had a pressing need to access his pension funds, and even if hed been given 
correct information at the outset would have still proceeded to make the withdrawal. So 
although I accept how disappointing getting that incorrect information would have been for 
Mr S Im not persuaded that it, alone, caused him to make the decision he did.
As I said earlier, ReAssure has sent cheques to Mr S totalling £450 in respect of the 
inconvenience he was caused by his payment being delayed, and for the loss of expectation 
caused by the incorrect information he was given. On balance I think that those payments 
are fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr S. Although I do conclude that 
ReAssure did something wrong, by giving the incorrect information to him, Im not persuaded 
that it would be reasonable to direct ReAssure to pay anything more than the compensation 
it has already offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. But I think that the compensation 
ReAssure Limited has already paid is fair and reasonable. So I dont require ReAssure to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman