DRN-4323623
The complaint
B complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled a claim on a motor
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D had a four-wheel drive pick-up vehicle, made by a large manufacturer and first
registered in 2018.
For the year from late May 2022, Mr D insured the vehicle on a comprehensive policy with
Admiral. The policy schedule gave Mr Ds address at a specialist farm business (B). The
cover included cover for transporting own goods.
Unfortunately, in late August 2022, Mr D reported to Admiral that the vehicle had suffered
damage from hailstones. Admiral appointed a repairer.
From about mid-October 2022, the repairer had the vehicle. Admiral arranged a courtesy
vehicle for Mr D.
By mid- December 2022, Mr D had complained about delay. He also complained that the
courtesy vehicle wasnt four-wheel drive, and it didnt have a tow bar, so B had lost income.
On about 10 January 2023, the repairer returned the repaired vehicle to Mr D, and he
returned the courtesy vehicle.
By a letter to Mr D dated early February 2023, Admiral said that eight weeks had passed
since he made his complaint, so he could bring it to us.
Mr D brought the complaint to us in mid-February 2023.
By a final response dated early March 2023, Admiral didnt uphold the complaint, but said it 
was sending £50.00 compensation for its delayed response.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think
that Admiral caused any delays. And she thought that £50.00 was fair for the delayed
response. But she thought that Admiral shouldve offered the requested vehicle once it
realised repairs were delayed, especially since B said they needed it for work.
The investigator recommended that Admiral should:
pay £20.00 per day for loss of use of the vehicle from the day Admiral was aware of 
the delays (23 November 2022) until the day the vehicle was returned (10 January 
2023) totalling £980.00.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to B and 
to Admiral on 14 August 2023. I summarise my findings:
B didnt have any reasonable expectation that Admiral would provide a like-for-like 
vehicle with four-wheel drive and a tow bar. For that reason, I wasnt minded to find it 
fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to compensate Mr D or B for any inconvenience 
or financial loss caused by the fact that the courtesy vehicle wasnt as suitable as his 
vehicle for their needs.
I didnt consider that the delayed final response caused Mr D or B much extra 
inconvenience. And I was satisfied that Admirals payment of £50.00 was fair.
Subject to any further information from B or from Admiral, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to 
do any more in response to this complaint. 
B acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision.
Admiral didnt respond to the provisional decision.
I see no reason to change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hold Admiral responsible for the acts and omissions of its repairer. However, from what Ive
seen, there was delay in the supply of parts to the repairer from the main dealer franchised
by the manufacturer. I dont hold Admiral responsible for that.
Admirals policy said that it would provide a courtesy vehicle. The policy terms included the
following:
IMPORTANT

We cannot guarantee the courtesy van will be adapted to any special needs or
disability.

The courtesy van is not intended to be a like for like replacement of your vehicle. it
will typically be a small car derived van.
So, whilst Ive noted Mr Ds personal needs and Bs business needs, they didnt have any
reasonable expectation that Admiral would provide a like-for-like vehicle with four-wheel
drive and a tow bar. For that reason, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to 
compensate Mr D or B for any inconvenience or financial loss caused by the fact that the 
courtesy vehicle wasnt as suitable as his vehicle for such needs.
I say that notwithstanding that Admiral knew from about 23 November 2022 that there was a
delay in the repair. I havent found Admiral responsible for that delay. So I find it fair and 
reasonable that Admiral did no more than to extend the period for which it provided a 
courtesy vehicle.
Admiral has acknowledged that it shouldve responded to the complaint more promptly.However, it told Mr D of his right to bring his complaint to us, which he did. And Admiral sent
its final response to Mr D and its file to us. So I dont consider that the delayed final response
caused Mr D or B much extra inconvenience. And Im satisfied that Admirals payment of
£50.00 was fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman