DRN-1557056
The complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc rejected his section 75 claim when he complained 
that he had returned a camera purchased from a third-party supplier but didnt receive a 
refund.
What happened
Mr O purchased a camera from a third-party retailer and paid with his Santander credit card. 
When he received the camera, Mr O couldnt get it to power on. He contacted the retailer 
who explained its returns process. Mr O returned the camera by Royal Mail tracked delivery.
After some time, Mr O hadnt received his refund, so he chased the retailer. The retailer 
asked for the tracking number and Mr O provided it. The retailer said that Mr O mustve 
returned the camera to its head office because it hadnt received it.
Mr O contacted Santander to raise a section 75 complaint. He said hed returned the camera 
to the address provided and that hed held a tracked postage as confirmation. He asked for a 
refund.
Santander rejected Mr Os claim. It said that an order for it to be liable under section 75, 
there had to be a valid claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the supplier. 
Santander said it couldnt conclude that there had been a breach of contract because it had 
been confirmed that Royal Mail delivered the item to an incorrect address due to the 
postcode for the retailer being an incorrect address on Royal Mails database. Santander 
said this wasnt a breach of contract because a refund can only be processed if the item is 
returned to the retailers possession. 
Santander passed details of Mr Os complaint to the chargeback team to see if a chargeback 
could be raised. However, the time period of 120 days for chargeback had already expired.
Mr O wasnt happy with Santanders response and complained to this service. To resolve his 
complaint, he wants his account credited.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that based on the available information, 
Santander hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the section 75 claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mr O has a like claim against Santander 
as he does against the supplier for breach of contract/misrepresentation. 
For the purposes of section 75, a breach of contract is where the supplier fails to do what the 
contract says it must, either expressly or by implication. For example, there is a breach of 
contract where goods have been paid for which arent supplied, or where they arent up to 
standard.
The way in which this service approaches section 75 is to look at what happened and 
assess whether there are grounds for a successful claim under section 75.
Mr O has explained that he returned the camera because it wouldnt power up. He returned 
the camera to the address provided by the retailer but due to an error by Royal Mail it was 
delivered to an incorrect address and the retailer never received it.
In order to uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there has been a breach of 
contract. 
Theres no dispute that Royal Mail delivered the item to an incorrect address. Whilst this is a 
clear breach of contract as between Mr O and Royal Mail, I cant say that it is a breach of 
contract between Mr O and the retailer, or between Mr O and Santander. Im unable to hold 
the retailer responsible for the error made by Royal Mail. And because the retailer didnt 
receive the camera back, I cant say that it is in breach of contract by not issuing a refund.
I appreciate what a frustrating situation this is for Mr O. Generally, when signed for or 
tracked items go missing in the mail, its possible to make a claim for compensation as 
against the postal service, subject to relevant financial limits. Mr O has said that because the 
retailer took so long to confirm whether it had received the returned item, the time limit for 
making a claim against Royal Mail has expired. I dont know what the time limit is so I cant 
say whether thats correct. But in any event, I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for the 
time it took the retailer to realise what had happened.
Ive thought about Mr Os point that theres been a breach of contract because the camera 
was faulty. Under the relevant legislation, goods must be of a satisfactory quality. If the 
goods are faulty, then it may be the case that a breach of contract has occurred. However, I 
havent seen enough information to safely conclude whether the camera was faulty or not. 
And I dont think Santander was provided with this information either. In any event, one of 
the remedies under the relevant legislation for faulty goods is a replacement or refund, which 
the retailer in this case had agreed to do upon receipt of the returned item.
Taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im unable to conclude that 
theres been a breach of contract by the retailer. So I dont think there are grounds for a 
successful section 75 claim and I cant fairly conclude that Santander acted unreasonably in 
declining the section 75 claim.
Im aware that Santander offered compensation to reflect the fact that it told Mr O it was 
referring his complaint to the chargeback team at a time when the time period for bringing a 
chargeback claim had already expired. This is a separate issue to the section 75 claim. I 
agree that Santander shouldve realised that the chargeback period had already expired and 
I think its offer to compensate Mr O for this error is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman