DRN-3620358
The complaint
Miss B complains that her home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has 
mishandled and delayed her claim. She wants fair payment in respect of the damage 
suffered to her property and possessions. References to RSA include all relevant actions 
that Miss B has ascribed to her insurance claim and complaint.
What happened
In August 2020 a burst pipe flooded the ground floor of Miss Bs property and ruined some of 
her possessions. RSA sent its restoration firm and then its loss adjuster to assess the claim 
and they reported on a quantity of mould downstairs that couldnt have occurred in the short 
time from the incident. The report identified other areas of the property in a poor state. RSA 
said based on the condition of the property its agents wouldnt carry out repairs.
Miss B said RSA tried everything to avoid a fair settlement for the repairs and replacements. 
And used intimidation tactics to get her to accept less than her claim was worth, and she had 
been left unable to repair her property and make it habitable again. She said RSAs payment 
for temporary accommodation wasnt fair and ran out before the repairs had started. She 
said RSA wouldnt investigate her complaint. Miss B said her home insurance cover expired 
and RSA refused to renew it and with an ongoing claim, she couldnt find alternative cover. 
Miss B said the claim started well and RSA was very helpful, and its loss adjuster began to 
work out the repairs. But then RSA investigated her residence at the address and caused 
delays. Her claim was eventually accepted, and RSAs agents quoted for repairs at about 
£9,000 and subsequently, £17,800 + VAT. Miss B obtained a higher quote and said that as 
RSA wasnt willing to carry out the work it should pay her quote. She sent a list of damaged 
items costed at about £20,000, but RSA said it didnt have to pay for items in a poor 
condition before the claim and its agent had only disposed of those beyond economic repair. 
RSA said Miss B told it she was staying with a friend, so there was no need for temporary 
accommodation. RSA said its offer for her claim was based on the propertys pre-incident 
condition and related to the policy condition that requires her to keep all the property insured 
in good condition and in good repair and a reduction for wear and tear. RSA shared the loss 
adjusters report and photos describing the property and contents as very mouldy, with 
considerable mould present in the utility, kitchen and to a lesser extent the lounge. RSA 
made a final offer for repairs of £14,189 + VAT, and £13,744 for contents plus the unvalued 
electrical items. It said that due to the condition of the property it wouldnt renew Miss Bs 
cover. RSA said it had caused a delay of about a month and paid her £100 compensation.  
Our investigator didnt initially recommend the complaint be upheld. He said RSAs loss 
adjuster found Miss Bs property to be in a poor state of repair before the incident. He said 
he understood Miss B had tried to save her items from water damage, but this wasnt the 
reason her property was in poor condition, as the report and photos show upstairs areas that 
were unaffected by the claim to be in a very poor state. The investigator said it was fair for 
RSA to base its offer of settlement on what it would cost its agents to do the repairs. 
Miss B said the investigator was biased and ignored all her evidence. She said our guidance 
requires RSA to pay for repairs as it wouldnt do the work and should do the work to prepare 
for the repairs. She said the policy requires RSA to pay for temporary accommodation until 
her property was habitable not when RSA made its offer for reinstatement. She said drying 
out completed in early June 2021 and payment for her accommodation stopped on 30 June 
and it was unreasonable to expect her to find a builder to complete the work in three weeks.
Miss B said the investigator concluded all her kitchen items were subject to wear and tear 
just because some appeared to be so, and ignored her photos. She said RSA havent made 
an offer for her electrical items. Concerning the mould, Miss B said the investigator was 
wrong about the state of her property as mould growth was only where the water escaped 
and could have grown between the incident and the loss adjusters visit. Concerning delays, 
Miss B said the investigator accepted all RSAs excuses. She said insurers are required to 
continue a policy until a claim is settled.
The investigator obtained further information from the parties and changed his view on the 
complaint, recommending most of it be upheld. He said Miss B had carried out significant 
work, including removal of damaged fixtures and fittings. And RSAs restoration firm had said 
all moisture from the leak had been removed and mould dealt with. He said RSAs agents 
still declined to carry out repairs and RSA felt that due to the pre-incident condition of the 
property it would be difficult to repair only the incident-related damage. RSA said repairs 
would involve a significant amount of cross over work and betterment and the roof needed 
fixing to stop rainwater entering.  
The investigator said RSA didnt explain about the roof or what betterment and crossover 
work would be required, but did change its position to say its agents could do the repairs. He 
said RSA should carry out an effective repair including to structural damage, replacing 
fixtures damaged beyond repair, and repair electrical wiring, or pay Miss B her contractors 
updated estimate of £24,500 plus VAT and reimburse her £650 for electrical work. 
The investigator said RSA had paid Miss B a total of £6,400 for temporary accommodation, 
but wouldnt pay anything from July 2021 onwards as Miss B hadnt accepted its offer and so 
was holding up her claim. The investigator said lack of valid arguments about the repairs 
meant RSA should pay her temporary accommodation to when the repairs are concluded.
As to Miss Bs possessions the investigator said she was present at their disposal and could 
have saved any thought to be in good condition. He said RSA should value her electrical 
items. He said RSA had inconvenienced Miss B as she couldnt live in the property for over 
two years and has struggled financially and RSA should pay her £950 compensation.
Miss B was still unhappy with this outcome. She said the investigator had fundamentally 
misunderstood her points as her kitchenware was as new but was damaged by mildew from 
the leak as her photos showed. She hadnt prevented their disposal as she couldnt know at 
the time that RSA would refuse to pay for them. She said the investigator had taken RSAs 
side and was doing their work for them. 
Miss B said the compensation recommended by the investigator is nowhere near a reflection 
of the misery and stress she has suffered. She said the going rate for our cases appears to 
be £1,000 per six months and so she should be paid £4,000. Miss B said her complaint 
should be re-examined properly by an experienced ombudsman to make a decision based 
on our own guidance, rather than just on what RSA say. 
RSA responded with information from its loss adjuster about liability for non-incident related 
work such as removing and reinstating sink and taps and cleaning. It said it wouldnt be 
liable for works part-completed by Miss B and damage from water penetration of the roof and walls. Its agents wouldnt guarantee the repairs due to these existing defects and further 
likely defects. It recommended that these be addressed before the repairs begin.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service considers complaints according to a remit set for us by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. That doesnt include considering how a business has handled a consumers 
complaint and so I havent looked at the issues Miss B has raised about this. I can see how 
angry Miss B is towards RSA, its agents and our service and I have attempted to address all 
the significant points she has made. 
The repairs
Miss B wanted RSA to carry out the repairs and RSA has now said that its agents could do 
so, but it doesnt think this should include remedial work which it considers to be betterment 
or pay for wear and tear. Consequently RSA has offered a settlement based on its agents 
quote for the incident-related damage only.
Ive considered whether it was fair for RSA not to carry out the repairs and reduce its offer on 
Miss Bs claim for pre-existing conditions and wear and tear. And if it is fair for RSA to only 
pay her what it would cost it to do the work. Ive also borne in mind our expectation that 
insurers carry out effective and lasting repairs and that sometimes, in order to do this, they 
must carry out work the requirement for which hasnt arisen from the insured event. 
RSAs estimate is also lower than Miss Bs as it can obtain work at a lower cost than a 
consumer can. RSA relies on a policy term that allows it to pay Miss B what it would have 
cost RSA to have the repairs carried out. Miss B thinks RSA should pay her estimate for the 
repairs as it must indemnify her against the damage to her property, given it doesnt want to 
do the work itself. 
For the majority of claims indemnity is achieved by the insurer carrying out repairs, but in this 
case, RSA wouldnt do so because it considers Miss Bs property to be in a poor state of 
repair. A home insurance policy is intended to indemnify the policyholder against losses and 
damage from an insured event, but all other work is uninsured and considered by insurers to 
be betterment, for which theres no provision in Miss Bs policy. 
Miss B considers her property to have been in a good state of repair as she has maintained 
it. Miss B is correct to say that the issue of whether or not she maintained her property is 
critical to RSAs approach to her claim. And its a condition of her policy that she keep the 
property in good condition and good repair. Miss B has addressed the possibility that her 
property might not be considered to have been well maintained by saying, even if there was 
some sense of betterment  which there isnt your own website has crystal clear advice on 
this. Miss B quotes our guidance to the effect that if the only way to carry out an effective 
and lasting repair to the insured damage is to carry out work on damage that isn't insured 
then this should be covered by the insurer so that the policyholder is indemnified. 
RSA said the property was damp before the leak. Miss B denies this and says mould growth 
could have occurred in the seven weeks between the leak and the loss adjusters inspection. 
I think shes incorrect to say the only evidence for RSAs position is the messy state of the 
property after the leak. The evidence from the loss adjusters report and photos shows 
extensive mould growth, but this does appear to be situated where the leak occurred and is 
also present on work surfaces, kitchen units and furniture, with rust on metal implements.RSA based its reduced offer on the reports from its restoration firm and loss adjuster who 
said the pre-existing condition of the property meant there would be, a significant amount of 
cross over work and betterment during these works. I can well understand why RSA thought 
this damage was ongoing before the claim arose, but it simply hasnt provided the evidence 
to prove this. Since the claim incident, Miss B has carried out some preparatory work and 
RSA acknowledges that the repairs can be undertaken, and so I dont think it fair for RSA to 
avoid any tasks required in order to ensure the repairs are lasting and effective. 
  
As Ive said above, the policy should indemnify Miss B for her losses, but in common with all 
home insurance policies it carries exclusion clauses for wear and tear. There are two 
relevant clauses; one which applies to the fabric of the insured building and allows RSA to 
reduce payment where wear and tear are present and another concerning contents. Firstly:
If the buildings have not been kept in a good state of repair  we will pay the cost of 
repairing or replacing the damaged parts of the buildings and we will, where appropriate, 
take off an amount for wear and tear.
This clause allows RSA to reduce its offer by an amount equivalent to the wear and tear of 
the building. Miss B said following the work by RSAs restoration firm the entire ground floor 
was completely clear, clean and ready to work on. She said the settlement offered by RSA 
wouldnt allow her to reinstate her property as it wasnt enough to do the work. RSA hasnt 
shown that it would be fair to reduce its offer for wear and tear, though I can see why it 
thinks the property was not well maintained. 
RSA doesnt want to make repairs to the roof and walls of Miss Bs property as it thinks 
these are allowing water penetration. I can see why it would think this from the photos and 
description Ive seen, and I think its position is reasonable. I would recommend that Miss B 
has this work completed before the repairs are commenced.  
Since RSA has said the repairs can be carried out, I dont think its fair for it to base its offer 
on its own quote for repairs. RSA has acknowledged that because of delays it needs to 
submit a revised quotation as a basis of a settlement offer and I expect this to recognise the 
large increase in the cost of building materials and labour. I think the best way to achieve 
this is for RSA to pay Miss B the amount of her revised quote for the repairs. I also think it 
would be fair for RSA to reimburse Miss B for the electrical work she has paid for. 
I dont think RSAs initial offer for the claim of about £9,000 was realistic for the damage 
incurred at the property and this caused delays and further stress to Miss B. Ive considered 
this further below.
Contents
Miss B said she doesnt hold a wear and tear policy but a new for old policy and so RSA 
should compensate her for the full cost of replacing her damaged items. She said she 
agreed with RSAs agents that all her disposed items were beyond economic repair, but 
RSA had lied about their pre-incident condition and wouldnt make fair payment. She said 
RSA has only paid for three quarters of her contents and not included her kitchenware.
The policy exclusion relevant to Miss Bs personal items states that for all claims RSA may 
reduce its payment for a claim in respect of wear and tear or deterioration. Miss B said her 
photos show her kitchenware to have been in an excellent condition before the claim. I 
disagree and I dont accept that they would have deteriorated to the extent apparent from the 
photos in the time from the claim to the loss adjusters report a month later. There is well 
developed mould and the corrosion of metal items such as pots and pans must have begun long before the leak. And so I dont think it would be fair to require RSA to replace all Miss 
Bs items as this would put her in a better position than before the incident.
 
I think RSAs offer for Miss Bs contents is fair, but it hasnt made an offer for her damaged 
electrical items. RSA has said it awaits her contact about this. I can see that our investigator 
has prompted RSA on several occasions about this and I can see no justification for further 
delay by RSA. 
Temporary accommodation
The insurance policy states that RSA will meet the cost of alternative accommodation if the 
property is uninhabitable following an accepted claim. 
Once RSA decided it wouldnt carry out the repairs it was RSAs responsibility to make a fair 
payment in respect of Miss Bs claim. Following its final offer RSA felt that Miss B was 
delaying the reinstatement work, whereas Miss B said it wasnt possible to engage builders 
before RSA stopped paying for her temporary accommodation. 
Since I have found that RSAs final offer wasnt fair to Miss B as it didnt indemnify her 
against her losses, it follows that I think payment for her temporary accommodation should 
have been continued. I think the investigator is correct to say that this should be paid until 
the property returns to habitability. Miss B said she has an agreement with a friend who has 
provided her with accommodation that monthly rental payments of £950 would be deferred 
until the money be made available.
RSA has said it would like to see some proof of Miss Bs stays in temporary accommodation, 
and the agreement between her and her friend. I think it is reasonable for RSA to wish to see 
some verification about Miss Bs temporary accommodation. 
   
Delays
Miss B said RSA delayed her claim and allowed mould to grow unnecessarily. I think RSA 
had reasons to investigate the claim in terms of Miss Bs residence at the insured address 
and the condition of the property. Having said this the investigation was followed by delays, 
one of which RSA has acknowledged and paid Miss B £100 compensation. 
I think RSA made an initial offer for Miss Bs claim which was inadequate for her to have 
made a proper repair, and this delayed its final offer. As I have said, I think RSA has 
delayed making an offer for Miss Bs electrical items for a considerable period and this will 
have caused her some inconvenience. I think RSA should pay her further compensation for 
this. 
Miss B said RSA shouldnt have refused to renew her home insurance policy while her claim 
remains unresolved. There is no requirement on an insurer to offer to renew a policy if it 
decides it would no longer wish to insure the risk. It must, however, continue to deal with a 
claim as it would with a current policy.
Stress and anxiety
Miss B said RSAs handling of her claim has caused her sleeplessness and anxiety, and she 
has wondered if she will have a home of her own again. Im sorry to hear that and that she 
feels RSA has bullied her, but I havent seen any evidence of bullying or intimidation from 
RSA. Miss B has said she has suffered two years of stress. I sympathise with her for the 
protracted nature of her claim. However, even had the settlement been agreed without 
delay, there would have been significant work required on the property before she would 
have been able to move back. The report provided by RSA (as quoted in the buildings 
insurance section above) shows that the clearing and drying phase had been completed by 
8 June 2021. At this point, and with no evidence from RSA to suggest otherwise, the 
reinstatement work could have begun. This is likely to have taken several months.
Miss B has made the point about the excessive amount of time she has spent on her claim. 
Our service doesnt award compensation for a policyholders time in dealing with a claim as 
this is inherent in dealing with a long and involved claim. 
In conclusion, I find that our investigator considered the evidence and followed the terms of 
Miss Bs policy and our guidance in reaching a fair and reasonable view on her complaint. I 
agree with his view that for the impact the poor handling of her claim had upon her, RSA 
should pay Miss B £950 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay Miss B the equivalent of her revised estimate for the repair of her property 
including VAT if it is charged to her by the contractor, unless RSA wishes to engage 
its contractors to carry out the work. 
Pay Miss B for the £650 she incurred for electrical work. 
Pay Miss B for the costs of her temporary accommodation up until her home is made 
habitable again through restoration of the damage. Miss B to provide RSA with the 
evidence it requires to verify her temporary accommodation arrangements.
Pay Miss B £950 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
Make Miss B an offer for her electrical items that were beyond economic repair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman