DRN-3119144
The complaint
Mrs S complains Society of Lloyds (SOL) has unfairly declined a claim shes made on a 
residential let insurance policy.
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I have provided a summary 
of what happened:
Mrs S owns a property which is let to tenants and is covered by a buildings insurance 
policy underwritten by SOL.
After an escape of water was discovered in the kitchen at the property, Mrs S 
arranged a plumber to repair the leak and made a claim on the policy to resolve the 
damage.
After investigation, the claim was declined as SOL said the cause of the damage was 
rising damp which happened gradually, and this wasnt covered by the policy.
Mrs S complained to SOL about the declinature and a number of other issues.
SOL maintained its position on the claim and didnt agree the claim had been dealt 
with slowly or there was a lack of communication or dishonesty on the part of its 
agents.
Mrs S brought the claim to this Service and our investigator didnt uphold it, so Mrs S 
asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer wants to make a claim on a policy, the onus is on them to show the 
damage being claimed for is covered by the policy. Where an insurer seeks to rely on an 
exclusion to decline a claim, the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. 
When assessing this complaint, Im likely to place significant evidential weight on expert 
opinions provided by professionals who have investigated and diagnosed the cause of the 
damage being claimed for. Ill also keep in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable to 
both parties.
The terms and conditions explain what is and isnt covered by the policy.
In certain circumstances, water leaks are covered by the policy.
But the policy includes an exclusion for any cause which happens gradually and 
this is what SOL relied on to decline the claim.
So, Ive looked at the parties explanations as to the cause of the damage to 
establish whether it was most likely it happened gradually.
Mrs S says that a leak had occurred from the main feed to the kitchen sink and the 
resultant water had been soaking into the concrete for some time. This then travelled 
through the property causing damage to the ground floors and lower level walls. 
Her plumber also thought the leak had been happening for a long period of time.
SOL appointed specialist water damage experts to investigate the cause. The report 
they produced is comprehensive and includes details of the tests undertaken  
moisture mapping, nitrate testing and leak detection  and the results seen.
The report concluded there were three separate sources of damp and these were a 
leak from the mains water pipe in the kitchen, failed shower seals from a shower 
cubicle and rising damp issues confirmed by a salts test.
SOL concluded that the damage being claimed for was as a result of damp within the 
walls  which, by its nature happens gradually - caused by the condition or method of 
construction of the property without adequate damp proofing.
While the parties dont agree exactly on the cause of the damage, there seems to be 
broad agreement the damage happened gradually, over a period of time.
On balance, I find the water damage experts report and conclusions reached 
following the testing to be more persuasive.
Because of this, Im satisfied SOL acted fairly when it relied on its experts report and 
declined the claim under the exclusion for a cause that happens gradually as is the 
case with rising damp.
I note SOL suggested to Mrs S she could provide an alternative expert opinion 
challenging its view on the cause. It also said it would reimburse the cost of this 
report if it changed the claim decision. 
But I havent seen anything to suggest she decided to follow this suggestion and Ive 
not been given any expert opinion that supports Mrs Ss position that the claim 
should be covered.
Having considered the timeline provided by SOL, Ive not seen any significant gaps in 
progressing the claim and given the investigation required, and Ive not seen 
anything which persuades me it took longer than was necessary.
I also havent seen enough to safely conclude the accusations of dishonesty on the 
part of SOLs agents have merit.
In conclusion, I wont be asking SOL to do anymore
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman