DRN-2662210
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited failed to identify a leak at her property. Mrs W 
would like Aviva to pay her for the cost of having the repairs done to her property and 
compensation. 
What happened
Mrs W contacted Aviva in December 2019 after she noticed water coming into her kitchen. 
An engineer arrived and advised Mrs W to re-grout and re-seal the shower. If the leak 
continued the engineer told Mrs W to call back. 
Mrs W called Aviva again in July 2020 after seeing more water in her kitchen. Another 
engineer attended the property and advised her to re-seal the shower tray. The leak 
continued so Mrs W called Aviva again a week later. The engineer who attended told her 
she needed to remove parts of the kitchen ceiling to see where the leak was coming from. 
After doing so the engineer said the water was coming from behind the waste pipe by the 
shower tray and told Mrs W to pay for a plumber and builder to repair the damage as it 
wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mrs W was unhappy it took three engineers to find the leak, so she made a complaint. Aviva 
didnt uphold the complaint. It said according to the third engineer the leak was behind the 
tiles on the shower unit which wasnt covered by the policy. So, Mrs W brought her complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the first two engineers 
were told by Mrs W they couldnt gain access through the shower or kitchen ceiling, so they 
advised Mrs W based upon what they could see was wrong with the shower. So, he didnt 
think Aviva had treated Mrs W unfairly. 
Mrs W disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she had to pay to 
have the shower re-sealed and re-grouted but that didnt fix the leak. So, she doesnt think 
Aviva did enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs W feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In order to uphold this complaint, I need to be satisfied Aviva either misadvised Mrs W about 
the leaks and/or treated her unfairly. Ive carefully considered the reports and pictures from 
all three engineers. And the evidence Mrs W has provided. Having done so, Im satisfied 
Aviva hasnt treated Mrs W unfairly here. 
The first engineer said Mrs W didnt want the shower tiles to be taken off. So, he couldnt see 
if there was a leak behind them. He advised Mrs W to re-grout and re-seal the tiles because 
the leak occurs when the shower is running. He also asked Mrs W to call back if the leak 
continued. Almost seven months later the second engineer said there were obvious gaps 
around the shower tray. He ran the water for twenty minutes but couldnt see any water in 
the kitchen. He said Mrs W didnt want him to access through the kitchen ceiling, so he 
advised her to re-seal the shower tray and to call back if the problem persisted. 
The third engineer visited the property and, after she was given permission by Mrs W to 
access the leak through the kitchen ceiling, said that water was coming from above the 
waste pipe behind the shower tray and the tiles from the shower. 
Mrs W has said she had to get her home insurance to resolve the issue, but she has been 
left out of pocket due to the advice from the first two engineers. I know she is frustrated by 
the number of engineer visits, but after considering the above reports, I dont think they 
provided unreasonable advice in the circumstances. The shower and its parts arent covered 
under the policy and the engineers did ask if Mrs W was happy for them to gain further 
access to see if they could find the leak. Because they couldnt gain access, Im satisfied 
they gave the best advice they could in the circumstances. And they told Mrs W to call back 
if the leak continued. 
So, I dont think Aviva has treated Mrs W unfairly here. And Im not going to ask it to take 
any further action.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman