DRN-2802817
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that they were mis-sold a Homestart mortgage in 2006 by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. They also say they were pressured into taking out a personal loan to 
make up a shortfall in the purchase costs.
To put things right, Mr and Mrs E want to be put back in the position they would have been in 
if they hadnt taken out the mortgage and personal loan. They also want the bank to 
compensate them for the distress and inconvenience they have been caused.
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs E wanted to buy a property. They approached HSBC for a mortgage. I 
understand Mr and Mrs E lost several properties they were interested in but in March 2006 
they found one that they liked and wanted to buy. Mr and Mrs E had already discussed their 
mortgage requirements with HSBC, and had decided on a Homestart mortgage. This 
product was interest-only for the first three years, thereafter reverting to capital and interest 
repayment, with the unpaid capital from the first three years rolled up into the remaining 
balance and repayments calculated accordingly.
When Mr and Mrs E discussed their mortgage needs with HSBC in March 2006, the bank 
was concerned that they didnt have enough funds of their own to cover the 5% deposit and 
stamp duty. Mr and Mrs E explained theyd been to visit family abroad the previous month 
and had used up all their savings on this trip. 
Mr and Mrs E said they could get family to send the money from abroad, but did not know 
how to do this and were concerned about the length of time this might take. HSBC explained 
that if the mortgage offer expired in the meantime, there was no guarantee of another offer. 
As a result Mr and Mrs E took out a personal loan instead, and borrowed £2,000 from a 
friend. They completed their purchase on 12 May 2006.
In May 2020, after learning about claims for mis-sold interest-only mortgages, Mr and Mrs E 
thought there might have been something wrong with the mortgage they took out in 2006. 
They say they werent given advice about any other type of mortgage than the Homestart 
mortgage, and that this hadnt been suitable for their needs. Mr and Mrs E also believe that 
the personal loan shouldnt have been sold to them either.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to us where an investigator looked at it. 
After considering everything Mr and Mrs E and HSBC had said, he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He was satisfied that Mr and Mrs E had selected the Homestart mortgage, 
and, despite their assertions to the contrary, wasnt persuaded HSBC needed to prove that 
it had given illustrations of alternative products to Mr and Mrs E. 
With regard to the personal loan, there was no longer any documentation about the 
application. But the investigator explained to Mr and Mrs E that this had been arranged on a 
non-advised basis and so he wasnt able to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint that the advice 
to take out the loan was wrong.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. Im also not required to answer each and 
every point Mr and Mrs E have raised.
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some 
instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I am required to reach my decision on the 
basis of which I think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence that is available. 
Here I have some documentation completed at the time, as well as Mr and Mrs Es 
recollections of what they say happened. The documentation is contemporaneous, that is, it 
was compiled at the time of the events now complained about. This means that it is likely to 
be a more accurate reflection of what was recorded at the time than a recollection provided 
almost 15 years after the event.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr and Mrs E say that they werent given any other 
mortgage option than the Homestart mortgage. They also say that the personal loan was 
mis-sold to them.
Due to the passage of time, the available documentation is limited. I am also mindful that I 
cannot apply the selling standards in place today to those that applied in 2005 or 2006. I also 
cannot apply the selling standards that related to insurance products to the sale of the 
mortgage or personal loan.
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs E have said about the insurance products they took out to 
protect their mortgage. These were arranged in accordance with the regulations applicable 
to the sale of insurance products which were in place at the time. These regulations were not 
the same as those which applied to the arrangement of the mortgage, or the arrangement of 
a personal loan. (I also note Mr and Mrs E complained to this service about the sale of the 
insurance in 2013, so I will make no further comment about this.) 
Homestart mortgage: Ive looked at the available (but limited) documentation from the time 
Mr and Mrs E first spoke to HSBC about the mortgage in 2006. This shows that, after 
answering various questions from HSBC about their circumstances, Mr and Mrs Es 
preference was for a Homestart mortgage. That is the product which was offered to them.The Key Facts Illustration (KFI) dated 5 April 2006 and mortgage offer dated 12 April 2006 
provide full details of how the product operated, with interest-only payments for the first three 
years, and the implications of this on the capital and interest repayments for the remainder of 
the 28-year term.
These documents also explain that HSBC has given no advice about the mortgage and, on 
the front page of the offer, provides a recommendation for Mr and Mrs E to take their own 
advice. So although Ive noted that Mr and Mrs E say they were advised by HSBC to take 
out this mortgage, the documentation shows otherwise. 
Ive read all Mr and Mrs Es queries about the information HSBC compiled about their 
circumstances before noting their preference for the Homestart mortgage. But Im satisfied 
with the response provided by HSBC in its letter dated 5 August 2020 as to why certain 
boxes on the form were ticked and why HSBC didnt provide  and wasnt required to  any 
quotations for alternative mortgage products.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs E believe they were advised to take out this mortgage. But the 
available evidence shows they were not given advice. HSBC wasnt required to provide them 
with illustrations of other types of mortgage if it wasnt asked to do so or if, from the 
information given by the customers, HSBC determined they wouldnt have qualified for a 
different type of mortgage. 
HSBC has confirmed that its policy at the time was to provide customers with information 
about the different types of mortgages offered by the bank and so if Mr and Mrs E had 
wanted to, they could have asked for a quotation for a capital repayment or interest-only 
mortgage (supported by a repayment vehicle), if they had qualified for those types of 
mortgage.
Because this was a non-advised loan, and Im satisfied the bank fulfilled its regulatory 
obligations (in line with the regulations in place at the time) in the way it was sold, Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
Personal loan: There are no longer any documents available in relation to the personal 
loan. I think its likely that the loan would have been regulated under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. If thats the case, then Mr and Mrs E would have had a statutory cooling-off period 
in order to decide whether or not they wanted to go ahead with the loan. But they did go 
ahead with it, presumably due to the time pressure of needing to complete their purchase, 
and the uncertainty of when funds from abroad might arrive for their deposit. 
As HSBC pointed out, if Mr and Mrs E had subsequently been sent the money by their family 
abroad, they could have repaid the personal loan with a rebate of interest. Ive not seen any 
evidence to show that they did, which suggests that the funds they were hoping for from 
abroad did not materialise, or if they did, that Mr and Mrs E used them elsewhere.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Further points:  Mr and Mrs E say that, to settle the complaint, they want to be put back in 
the position theyd have been in if they hadnt taken out the mortgage. But if they hadnt 
taken it out, its difficult to see how else they could have purchased the property (in which 
they still live) because they didnt have the money to do so otherwise. 
If theyd taken out a capital repayment mortgage, Mr and Mrs E would have had much higher 
repayments from the outset. And if theyd taken out an interest-only mortgage, Mr and Mrs E 
would have had to make additional payments into a repayment vehicle in order to pay off the 
capital at the end of the term. The Homestart mortgage enabled them, without the need for an endowment policy or other repayment vehicle, to pay only interest for the first three years 
of the mortgage, before reverting to capital repayment, thus keeping their payments low from 
the start.
And because they didnt have the money for the deposit (having spent their savings on 
visiting their family), without borrowing the money by way of a personal loan, Mr and Mrs E 
had no way of funding either the deposit or the purchase expenses.
So although I note Mr and Mrs E consider they have been disadvantaged because they took 
out the mortgage and personal loan 15 years ago, I dont think Mr and Mrs E would have 
been able to fund the purchase of their home in any other fashion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman