DRN-1467825
The complaint
Mr D complains Zippa Limited (Zippa) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr D took 4 instalment loans between May 2017 and August 2018. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £150 08/05/17 22/09/17
2 £150 04/10/17 08/03/18
3 £150 15/03/18 02/08/18
4 £150 02/08/18 repaid*
*When Zippa provided its file to this service it said there was a small outstanding balance on 
loan 4 which was written off. But in response to our assessment, Zippa said loan 4 had been 
repaid in full by Mr D and no amount had been written off, although the exact date of 
repayment isnt clear. As the latest information from Zippa is that loan 4 was repaid in full by 
Mr D, this is the information on which Ive based this decision. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong to have granted the first two instalment loans. But 
she thought the remaining instalment loans (loans 3 and 4) shouldnt have been given. 
By loan 3, the adjudicator thought that proportionate checks wouldve shown that Mr D was 
having problems managing his money - because Mr D had missed several repayments for 
loans 1 and 2.   
Mr D appears to agree with the adjudicators view. But Zippa has disagreed. Zippa accepts 
that Mr D hadnt made all his repayments on time, although it doesnt think this was so 
significant for it not to lend. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr D doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Zippa wasnt wrong to 
lend the first two loans. It seems therefore that this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer 
think that I need to make a finding about it. So instead, this decision will focus on whether 
Zippa did anything wrong when it lent loans 3 and 4.  
For the lending that remains in dispute, Zippa had to assess if Mr D could afford to pay back 
the amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Zippas checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments and Mr Ds 
income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Zippa should have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include: 
Mr D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D.
Zippa was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his instalment loans  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr D was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in 
particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without having 
to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows 
that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, by loan 3 Zippa should reasonably have known that its most 
likely that Mr D was struggling to repay his loans in a sustainable way. I say this because 
proportionate checks wouldve likely shown that Mr D was having problems managing his 
money because hed had problems repaying his first and second loan.  
I agree with Zippa that the missed loan repayments under loan 1 werent particularly 
concerning at that stage. But Mr D continued to have problems repaying his loans on the 
agreed repayment dates. Payments due on 9 November 2017, 28 December 2017, 4 
January 2018, 11 January 2018 and 18 January 2018 were all paid late. And on 25 January 
2018, Mr D only made up one of the two previous missed weekly payments and then also 
failed to pay the repayment due on 1 February 2018 on time. A previous missed payment 
remained outstanding until a few weeks later. 
In addition, and as the adjudicator has explained, Mr D also applied for a new loan the same 
day that loan 1 and loan 2 were repaid. Whilst these applications were declined, the timing of 
the applications does suggest that Mr D may have struggled to repay the previous loans 
sustainably. Zippa has also pointed that when Mr D requested loan 3 he applied for a higher amount than 
was lent (and had previously been lent) suggesting his underlying financial situation may not 
have been improving. And I can also see that when Mr D applied for loan 4, he requested an 
even higher amount (although this wasnt granted). This loan was also taken the same day 
that loan 3 was repaid. So, by August 2018 there didnt appear to be any improvement in 
Mr Ds finances. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mr D wouldnt be able to repay loans 
3 and 4 without undue difficulty. Considering all this together, I think Zippa was wrong to lend 
loans 3 and 4.       
So, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint about loans 3 and 4. And Ive set out what Zippa should 
do to put things right as detailed below.
Putting things right
 In order to put things right Zippa should: 
refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove adverse information about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Ds credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zippa to take off tax from this interest. Zippa must give
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Zippa Limited should put things right for Mr D as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman