DRN-3974508
The complaint
Mr B has complained because he experienced difficulties when making an insurance claim 
on a Tech Pack that was provided by Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays).
Mr B says that when he contacted Barclays about this, it refused to help him and therefore 
he feels that the Tech Pack was mis-sold.
What happened
Our adjudicator considered what Mr B and Barclays have said and provided, and he did not 
think that Barclays were responsible for the actions of the Tech pack provider.
Mr B disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and I used this to help me decide this complaint. 
Having considered what Mr B has said, I understand why he believes that Barclays should 
be held responsible for how his claim was handled. But Barclays was correct in saying that it 
is not responsible for Mr Bs complaint about how his insurance claim was handled. I will 
explain why.
 
The Tech Pack terms and conditions, which Mr B shouldve been provided with when the 
Tech Pack was sold to him, say: 
This is your Gadget Cover insurance policy, in this document you will find everything you 
need to know. Please read this carefully to make sure this policy is right for you. If you have 
any questions then visit barclays.lifestylegroup.co.uk or call us on 0800 158 3199*. This 
policy constitutes an agreement between you and the insurer, Assurant General Insurance 
Limited. The insurer has appointed Lifestyle Services Group to administer
the policy. References to we/us/our relates to Assurant General Insurance Limited and 
Lifestyle Services Group. 
In addition to the above, under the making an enquiry or complaint section of the policy, it 
explains that should the policyholder wish to make a complaint, they should contact the 
policy administrator, not Barclays.
So in this case Barclays was essentially acting as an intermediary, selling an insurance 
product that is actually underwritten and administered by another company. This is not 
unusual for insurance products provided alongside bank accounts and is a fairly standard 
practice in the insurance industry. 
As such, Barclays was responsible for providing Mr B with the correct information about the 
insurance policy when the Tech Pack was sold to him. Its also responsible for correctly 
collecting the premiums - or in this case, the monthly Tech Pack fees. But it is the insurer 
who is responsible for dealing with claims in line with the terms and conditions of the Gadget 
insurance. And it is the insurer who is responsible for dealing with complaints about the 
Gadget insurance. 
As this complaint is against Barclays, and not the insurer, Im unable to consider whether the 
insurance claim was handled correctly or in a reasonable manner. So I dont think Barclays 
needs to do anything further in relation to this matter.
Finally, I appreciate that Mr B believes that the problems he experienced while attempting to 
claim under the gadget insurance means that the policy was mis-sold in the first instance. 
But just because there were issues with the claims process does not mean that Barclays 
mis-represented or mis-sold the pack. If Mr B is unhappy with Barclays choice of insurer or 
the cover the Tech Pack provides, it is up to Mr B to decide whether the Tech Pack 
continues to be the right product for him.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman