DRN-2627557
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) misled him about the value of 
his mortgage endowment policy.
What happened
Aviva was the provider of Mr Ps mortgage endowment policy, which matured in March 2020. 
He says the projections hes been sent since 2016 all estimated a maturity value between 
£31,800 and £46,400. And he was sent a maturity pack in early March 2020 which said the 
value was £41,204.32. But after completing the maturity forms, he only received £38,311.07 
from the policy. And this wasnt paid until May 2020. 
When Mr P complained, Aviva acknowledged the proceeds should have been paid sooner. It 
explained it had awarded interest on top of the maturity value to reflect this, and it also sent 
him £100 compensation. But it said the maturity value itself was correct. Mr P referred the 
complaint to our service. Our investigator concluded the fall in value was due to market 
factors, noting in particular the downturn due to the pandemic around the time of maturity, 
rather than errors by Aviva. He was satisfied it had fairly compensated Mr P for the delay, 
and that the correspondence it sent made it clear that the value was subject to change  
meaning it could drop in value. So he didnt think Aviva had misled Mr P.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view. He said the lowest maturity projection given since 
2018 was over £40,000, and he would have cashed in around 2019 if hed known it could be 
less. He also said Aviva should have been more careful with the investment in light of the 
market decline. Im now deciding how this complaint should be resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Aviva has already fairly resolved this complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr Ps policy was unit linked. That means its value was determined by the number, and 
price, of units held in the underlying investment fund. Mr Ps payments towards the policy 
were used to buy the units, the value of which changed daily. As an investment, the value 
was impacted by market forces.
I appreciate how disappointing it was for Mr P to receive a lower maturity value than he was 
expecting. But this isnt enough for me to uphold the complaint. Id need to be persuaded 
that Aviva was negligent in how it managed the fund. And Ive seen nothing to substantiate 
that. Whilst Mr P says it should have been more careful with how it invested his payments, 
many funds were affected in a similar way. Unfortunately the policy matured when the 
markets were experiencing a downturn due to the pandemic. That, rather than negligence, 
explains the fall in value. Based on what Ive seen, Im also satisfied Aviva calculated the 
maturity value correctly. 
That said, there was a delay processing the payment. Although the value was correctly 
taken from the maturity date in late March 2020, this wasnt paid to Mr P until May 2020. Ive 
considered how this impacted him. Hes told us that he didnt incur any additional mortgage 
costs due to the late payment, as he planned to use the funds for his retirement and house 
repairs. Aviva paid interest on the maturity value to reflect the loss of use of the funds, plus 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Thinking carefully about the 
impact the delay had on Mr P, Im satisfied this is fair. 
I know Mr Ps concerns go beyond the actual performance of the policy. He feels misled by 
Avivas projections, which were based on expected growth rates rather than declines. Aviva 
was required by the regulator to send letters showing whether there was a high risk the 
policy wouldnt meet its target amount at maturity. These werent expected to show 
projections based on the policy declining each year. Theres a difference between the fall in 
value after all the units had been bought, when any change was solely determined by unit 
price, and the projections for yearly growth. I also think the changing projections made it 
clear there was an element of risk. 
Mr P says the letters should have stated in bold that the value could drop. But that wasnt a 
requirement for these letters, the format and content of which was set by the regulator. As 
explained above, this was an investment so it was always subject to risk and the value could 
fluctuate  meaning it could go down as well as up. Ive seen nothing to show Mr P was told 
the value of the units couldnt drop, so I dont agree that Aviva misled him about this. 
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr P, but taking into account the interest and 
compensation paid for the delay, Im satisfied Aviva dealt with this complaint in a fair and 
reasonable way. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
doesnt need to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman