DRN-4076350
The complaint
Mr L complains that Scottish Equitable plc trading as Aegon caused delays which prevented 
him from switching funds in his pension account when he wanted to.
What happened
Mr L has a Stakeholder Pension with Aegon. He makes monthly contributions to his pension. 
On 11 February 2021 Mr Ls monthly contribution was received by Aegon. Mr L says that 
due to delays by Aegon his monthly contribution wasnt invested until 16 February 2021. 
This meant that Aegons systems prevented him from making a fund switch. He wasnt able 
to make the fund switch until 17 February 2021 and the switch completed the following day.
Mr L says that as a result of Aegons delays he has incurred financial loss because of 
changes in the price of his funds. He complained to Aegon.
Aegon investigated his complaint. Aegon initially said that because his instruction to switch 
wasnt received until after 1pm on 17 February, the switch had taken place on the next 
working day. It said it couldnt be responsible for daily market movements in the price of his 
funds.
Mr L didnt accept this. He contacted Aegon on 15 June 2021 and said he should have 
referenced in his complaint that he was prevented from being able to switch because of a 
significant delay by Aegon in investing his monthly contribution. Mr L didnt receive a 
response, despite sending follow up requests to Aegon. He escalated his complaint on 17 
October 2021.
Aegon acknowledged his complaint. But, when Mr L still hadnt received a response he 
referred his complaint to our service in January 2022.
Aegon looked into his complaint again. It accepted there had been a delay responding to his 
complaint. It offered to pay him £400 by way of apology. Aegon said Mr Ls monthly 
contribution had been received on 11 February 2021 and fund switching was available from 
12 February. It said it had no evidence Mr L had requested a fund switch prior to 17 
February 2021.
Mr L accepted the payment of £400. But he didnt accept the other points Aegon had made.
He provided screenshots to show he had attempted to switch funds prior to 17 February. 
Aegon considered the evidence hed provided. It said it had checked the matter and noted 
that part of his monthly contribution was invested in an overseas fund. This meant it had 
been impacted by a national holiday in that country which had delayed settlement. Aegon 
said there was a limitation on its platform which meant that where there was a delay 
investing any part of a monthly contribution, switches could not take place until all of that 
monthly contribution was invested. It referred to the terms and conditions for the pension 
account.
Mr L did not agree and our investigator looked into his complaint. He thought that:
The monthly contribution was received by Aegon on 11 February 2021;
Part of the monthly contribution was invested in an overseas fund and there was a 
national holiday in that country on the relevant date. This meant his monthly 
contribution was pending until the markets in that country reopened;
When the markets in the overseas country reopened, it was possible to price the 
investment and make the purchase;
Mr L had provided evidence that he tried to switch funds and it was reasonable to 
accept he was attempting to switch from 11 February 2021 onwards; and
There was a limitation in Aegons systems (as described above) which meant that 
because part of his monthly contribution couldnt be invested until the overseas 
markets reopened, he was prevented from making any switches.
Our investigator considered the terms and conditions for Mr Ls pension. He said he wasnt 
satisfied that these included any information about the system limitation referred to by 
Aegon. In the circumstances, he thought Mr L shouldve been able to switch those funds 
which werent impacted by the overseas national holiday on 11 February 2021.
Our investigator said that Aegon should compensate Mr L as follows:
Assume that the fund switches which had been completed on 18 February, apart 
from the fund impacted by the holiday in the overseas country, had taken place on 11 
February 2021 (the Assumption);
Compare the current value of Mr Ls stakeholder pension against what it would have 
been if the Assumption applied;
If the fair value was greater, pay the difference into Mr Ls pension (allowing for 
charges and tax relief). If this was not possible, pay this amount (less a notional 
deduction for income tax) directly to Mr L;
If the fair value was lower, there would be no loss and no compensation would be 
payable.
Our investigator also noted that £400 had been paid to Mr L by way of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced as a result of what happened. He thought this 
was fair and reasonable. He didnt think Aegon should have to pay anything further.
Aegon disagreed with what our investigator said. It said:
The terms and conditions included information about when allocation of units would 
be delayed; and
Mr L had not contacted it directly when he wasnt able to complete the switch online.
Hed never asked for all funds, apart from the overseas fund, to be switched prior to 17 
February 2021.
Because Aegon didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a 
different view to our investigator. Ill explain why:
The time taken to invest the monthly contribution received on 11 February 2021Ive considered the delay in investing Mr Ls monthly contribution. The monthly 
contribution was received by Aegon on 11 February. His standing instruction was that 
his monthly contribution should be invested in a particular way  between four funds.
There is no dispute that one of these funds was traded on the Chinese stock market. 
Ive checked the dates when that stock market was closed for national holidays and it 
is the case that it was closed between 11 February 2021 and 17 February 2021.
The terms and conditions for Mr Ls pension state as follows:
Regular contributions will be allocated in accordance with your current choice 
of investment funds as at the date on which the contribution is received.
So, Mr Ls monthly contribution shouldve been allocated on 11 February 2021. 
However, the terms and conditions provide that Aegon has the right to defer the 
allocation of payments in certain circumstances including where an investment fund 
is not trading due to circumstances beyond Aegons control:
if the valuation of an investment fund is suspendedany allocation or 
cancellation of units of the suspended fund will be correspondingly 
suspended and the allocation or cancellation will be effected on the first 
working day after the suspension has ended.
So, I dont think Aegon did anything wrong when it wasnt able to allocate units in the 
overseas fund on 11 February 2021. It did allocate the funds once the Chinese stock 
market reopened and it backdated the pricing to 11 February 2021. I think that was 
fair and reasonable.
The rest of Mr Ls monthly contribution was invested on 11 February 2021 in 
accordance with his standing instruction.
Mr L was unable to issue his instruction to switch funds until 17 February 2021
Mr L has provided evidence that he tried to switch funds on 15 February 2021 and 
Aegon has also provided evidence which shows Mr L logged on to his account on 13 
February 2021. So, Im satisfied on balance of probability that Mr Ls online activity 
on 13 February supports what hes told us about wanting to switch funds earlier  
which he ultimately did do on 18 February 2021.
Aegon has now acknowledged that the reason Mr L couldnt switch funds until 18 
February 2021 was because of limitations on its platform. Whilst the allocation of 
contributions in the overseas fund was pending (due to Chinese national holidays) 
the online switching function was not available.
Aegon has referred us to the terms and conditions for Mr Ls pension which state that 
Mr Ls right to give it formal instructions to switch investment funds was subject to 
Clause 6.4 which states that it can defer allocation to an investment fund where:
it is not possible for units in the relevant investment fund to be allocated to 
your Policy immediately because of the time required for underlying 
transactions to occur, for example transactions in underlying in-house funds 
or external insurance funds or other investment with third parties.And further at Clause 6.4.4 which states that Aegon can suspend valuation of 
investment funds if its not practicable to effect a proper valuation of the assets of the 
investment fund for example due to market closure or suspension.
Mr L was invested in four funds and our investigator thought it was reasonable, in 
these circumstances, to expect Aegon to have permitted him to be able to switch the 
funds which were not impacted by the Chinese national holidays.
As mentioned above, Im satisfied Mr L wanted to switch funds earlier. Theres 
evidence of online activity on 13 February and again on 15 February.
Aegon says that if Mr L had been trying to switch funds at this time he wouldve 
received an online error message asking him to contact it. He didnt do that. But 
Aegon says that even if he had contacted it, that wouldnt have changed the position 
 it still couldnt have completed the switch until the pricing on all of his funds had 
completed.
Whilst I agree that the terms and conditions couldve been clearer about what 
happens when allocation of units in one fund within a pension policy has been 
delayed because of national holidays, it is the case that if Mr L had contacted Aegon 
when he received the error message, it wouldve been able to explain that to him in 
more detail.
Aegon has provided a copy of the error message it says Mr L wouldve received. It 
said:
A transaction is in progress on your pension account so you cannot change 
your fund choices at this time. Please contact us if you require more 
information.
Return to the product page and review your other pension plan details, or call 
the Contact Center using the number indicated within the Help and Support 
section for further information.
Aegon says, even if Mr L had contacted it, it wouldnt have made a difference since 
its system doesnt accept any switches whilst a transaction is pending on any fund 
within a customers portfolio.
Ive thought about what Aegon has said here. Although our service has no power to 
interfere with how Aegon chooses to design its systems we can look to see if 
Aegons systems have operated in a way which meant that Mr L was treated unfairly 
or unreasonably.
It is the case that Mr L didnt contact Aegon when he received the error message. If 
he had contacted Aegon we wouldve expected it to act reasonably to try to assist 
him and explain why he wasnt able to instruct a switch out of the fund which was 
impacted by the Chinese national holidays. But he didnt contact Aegon when he 
received the error message. So, Im satisfied he didnt provide it with any opportunity 
to try to assist him to achieve what he wanted to. In these circumstances, I dont think 
its fair or reasonable to say that Aegon should be liable for any losses he says he 
suffered when he wasnt able to complete his switch instructions online.
Distress and Inconvenience
Ive also considered the long delays that Mr L experienced when he raised his 
concerns with Aegon and the incomplete information it provided to him in its initial 
responses. Much of the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr L couldve been avoided if Aegon had highlighted to him at the outset the reason why the 
allocation of funds had been delayed and how that impacted on his ability to switch 
funds.
Aegon has acknowledged that its service here couldve been better. Its paid Mr L 
£400 by way of compensation for distress and inconvenience. Having considered 
everything Ive provisionally decided that £400 is fair and reasonable. I dont intend to 
require it to have to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold 
this complaint about Scottish Equitable plc trading as Aegon.
Aegon responded to my provisional decision. It said there were no further points it wanted to 
make.
Mr L also responded to my provisional decision. In summary, he said:
the reason why he hadnt contacted Aegon was because it had shut down its 
telephone support during the period of national lockdown. He provided an email 
which Aegon had sent him dated 3 April 2020 which explained this. He said all other 
methods of contacting Aegon had a response time of 15 days.
Aegon had confirmed that even if he had been able to contact it this would have had 
no impact on the outcome.
The terms and conditions did not clearly and unambiguously state that an inability to 
price one fund could have a bearing on other unrelated funds. It was not fair and 
reasonable that his investment choices had denied him the opportunity to make other 
switches.
Clause 6.4.2(c) did not apply to switches within the pension plan itself.
The pension contribution had been received on 10 February and not 11 February 
2021. It ought to have been invested on the day of receipt.
Adverse inferences should have been drawn from Aegons conduct of the complaint. 
Aegon paid him £400 because of the time it took to investigate his complaint and not 
for distress it had caused.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ls responses to my provisional decision. Ill comment on what I consider 
to be the key points. 
Mr L says that his contribution was made on 10 February 2021 and it should have been 
allocated on that date. I asked Aegon to provide a copy of the Account Payment History for 
Mr Ls account. I understand that Mr L says the payment left his account on 10 February but 
the Account Payment History provided by Aegon shows that Aegon recorded the date of 
receipt as 11 February 2021. I can also see that that date is in line with the day of the month 
when his regular direct debits were usually recorded as received. So, Im satisfied, on 
balance that Aegon received the direct debit payment on 11 February 2021.
Mr L has also commented on the interpretation of the terms and conditions. In particular hes 
referred to Clause 6.4.2(c). He says that clause doesnt apply to internal switches. However, like Mr L has said himself the clause refers to allocation of payments which in accordance 
with the definitions in the policy can be a contribution. Mr Ls contribution couldnt be 
allocated to one of the funds due to market closure. So the clause does apply here. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the terms and conditions couldve been clearer about 
what happens when allocation of units in one fund within a pension policy had been delayed 
because of national holidays. Nevertheless, I think that the information in Clause 6.4.2(c) did 
highlight that there were occasions where allocation of payments could be delayed because 
of the time required for underlying transactions to occur. 
Im also still satisfied that the other extract I quoted with regards to the suspension of 
valuation is applicable to what happened here. 
In my provisional decision, I set out details of the message Mr L wouldve received when he 
tried to switch funds online in February 2021. The message invited him to call the contact 
centre. In his response to the provisional decision, Mr L says the reason why he didnt 
contact Aegon was because hed been told by it, in an email dated 3 April 2020, that its 
telephone support had been withdrawn. I asked Aegon to comment on this. It said that its 
telephone centre had been closed briefly at the start of the pandemic but had reopened 
shortly thereafter. It wasnt able to provide the exact date when it reopened but it said that 
Mr L was aware it had reopened because he telephoned in on 22 December 2020. It 
provided a copy of its call log as evidence of this call.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied on balance, that in February 2021, Mr L 
was aware that the telephone centre had been reopened. He has confirmed he made no 
attempt to phone Aegon in response to the on screen messages Aegon says he was 
presented with. As I said in my provisional decision, that meant he didnt provide Aegon with 
any opportunity to try to assist him.
Aegon says its systems wouldnt have permitted him to complete the switches he wanted 
even if he had called. But that doesnt change the fact that he didnt give it an opportunity to 
try to assist him in whatever way might have been possible. At the very least there would 
have been clear evidence of an earlier switch request which could possibly have been 
considered - like Aegon offered in their complaint response to Mr L. So, I remain of the view 
that I cant be satisfied that Aegon acted unfairly or unreasonably when it wasnt given an 
opportunity to respond to Mr Ls request at the time.
Aegon has paid Mr L £400 by way of compensation. Mr L pointed out that this payment was 
for its delays in responding to his complaint. He says that adverse inferences should be 
drawn from the way that Aegon conducted the investigation of his complaint. I did note in my 
provisional decision that thered been long delays and Aegon had provided incomplete 
information to Mr L. Aegon had acknowledged this and paid him £400. I thought that was fair 
and reasonable. Having considered everything I remain of that view. So, although I know 
Mr L feels strongly about this matter, I dont think Aegon should be required to pay him 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Scottish Equitable plc 
trading as Aegon.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 Irene Martin
Ombudsman