DRN-3376068
The complaint
Mr H complains about two loans provided to him by Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo 
Loans, (Bamboo), which he says were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this 
service on Mr Hs behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below 
to all actions being taken by Mr H.
What happened
Bamboo agreed two loans for Mr H. Loan 1 was for £2,000 and taken out in April 2018 . 
Loan 2 was for £1,200 and taken out in September 2019. Both loans have been repaid. 
Some of the information Bamboo provided about the loans is shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan 
amountMonthly repayments Term 
(months)
1. 13/4/2018 20/11/2018 £2,000 35 monthly repayments of 
£113.45 and one monthly 
repayment of £113.4836
2. 14/9/2019 28/11/2019 £1,200 11 monthly repayments of 
£139.16 and one monthly 
repayment of £139.1312
Mr H says that Bamboo ought to have known that he couldnt repay the loans and in order to 
repay the loans, he would have to borrow further loans from other lenders which resulted in 
trapping him into a debt spiral. He got into further debt and suffered financial hardship as a 
result.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said with regard to 
Loan 1 that Mr Hs reliance on credit to manage his financial commitments was a strong 
indication that taking on new lending may not have been affordable. With regard to Loan 2, 
she said that Mr Hs finances hadnt improved at the time of Loan 2 and appeared to have 
deteriorated. It seemed reasonable to conclude that Bamboo didnt make a fair lending 
decision because Mr H was in a debt cycle, he was likely struggling financially, and he 
couldnt afford to sustainably meet the repayments on the loan.
Bamboo disagreed and responded to the investigators view to say, in summary, that:
- It considered that the checks it undertook were proportionate, the loans were for modest 
values and it had calculated that Mr H had a good net disposable income on each 
application
- It asked additional questions and received proof of his income for Loan 2 through a 
credit reference agency which linked to Open Banking.
- At the time of Loan 2, Mr H was using just 16% of his available credit and this had
       reduced from 89% at the time of the application for Loan 1
- There was no evidence of cash advances on any of Mr Hs credit cards. There appeared 
to be a categorisation error on the credit reports
- Both loans performed as expected before Mr H settled each loan early. So, it considered 
that no detriment had been caused to Mr H by its decision to lend
- It had undertaken a new recent credit report on Mr H which showed he had an in-credit 
balance on a credit card with a limit of £5,500, he wasnt using any of his available     
overdraft and had paid all of his credit perfectly since he became a Bamboo customer.  
- Its credit checks for Loan 1 provided different figures to those the investigator 
calculated. It said that Mr H had opened seven new credit accounts within the six 
months prior to the application and had only carried out two credit searches in the three 
months prior and six searches in the 12 months prior. It calculated that Mr H had used 
11 payday loans in that 12 months period and not the 20 payday loans that the 
investigator had suggested. As the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation, it 
considered that Mr H could have improved his financial situation
- With reference to Mr Hs overdraft at the time of Loan 2, Mr H could have cleared his 
balance with the loan. So, it wasnt too concerned that he had exceeded his overdraft 
limit of £200 by just 65 pence.
- On Loan 2, Mr H seemed not to be using his overdraft. The £200 limit on the current 
account was for a joint account, and not just an account belonging to Mr H.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H
and to Bamboo on 23 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when Bamboo lent to Mr H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
Id said that Bamboo would be aware of the relevant regulations and how we considered 
irresponsible lending complaints, so I didnt go into detail on these points. Id summarised by 
saying that it needed to check that Mr H could afford to meet his repayments without 
difficulty before agreeing credit for him. In other words, it needed to check he could make his 
repayments out of his usual income without having to borrow to meet them, while meeting 
his existing obligations and without the payments having a significant adverse impact on his 
financial situation. The assessments needed to take into account the nature of the credit and 
Mr Hs circumstances. 
With this in mind, my main consideration was whether Bamboo had treated Mr H fairly when 
it agreed to lend to him. Id thought about whether Bamboo completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing his applications to satisfy itself that he would be able 
to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences. Id thought about the 
information it knew, and what it ought reasonably to have known. 
Loan 1
The loan was repayable by 35 monthly repayments of £113.45 and one monthly repayment 
of £113.48. The interest rate was 54.19%, (69.9% APR). If Mr H made each payment when it 
was due, hed pay £4,084.23 in total. The loan was repaid on 20 November 2018.Id noted that Bamboo had gathered some information from Mr H about his income and 
accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. It assessed his living expenses using 
data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS). It also carried out a credit check. 
Mr H told Bamboo he was living with his partner and had two dependents, he had a 
mortgage, and his net monthly income was £2,100. He also received other monthly income 
of £130. 
Bamboo didnt ask Mr H for any information about his living costs. It assessed these as 
£467.27 according to ONS statistical information. 
The lender used information from its credit checks to assess Mr Hs monthly credit 
commitments as £408.  
Id reviewed Bamboos credit checks. Id noted that these showed that Mr H had 11 active 
credit accounts and that seven of these had been opened in the previous six months. Id 
concentrated on Mr Hs use of credit over the 12 months before the loan application although 
the checks showed Mr Hs significant use of credit before then.
I could see that Mr H had opened three credit card accounts in the ten months prior to the  
application for Loan 1. His balances on two of those cards totalled £6,614. So, hed 
borrowed relatively heavily on those cards since they were opened. Two of the account 
balances were around their respective credit limits of £1,200 and £5,500 respectively. The 
lower balance of the two was £1,175. But it had been £1,174 in the previous month and 
£976 with a £1,000 credit limit in the month before that. Id said that Mr Hs use of the card 
with the higher balance was more concerning. Hed missed a payment three months earlier 
and his balance was £53 over the credit limit two months earlier. In addition, hed taken six 
cash advances totalling £200 in February 2018, three totalling £120 in January 2018 and ten 
totalling £2,200 in the previous month. I thought Mr Hs need to take this number of cash 
advances ought to have concerned Bamboo. I thought Bamboo ought reasonably to have 
questioned why Mr H, who apparently had a high level of disposable income, had needed to 
take out so many costly cash withdrawals.
Id also noted that the checks showed that Mr Hs current account had been over its 
overdraft limit from August 2017 to December 2017, and the checks showed a missed 
payment three months prior to the loan application. 
More worryingly, Id noted that Mr H had borrowed ten loans from May 2017 to March 2018. 
One loan appeared to be an unsecured loan for £1,279 taken out in June 2017. The other 
loans appeared likely to be short term loans. In the six months prior to the loan application     
Mr H had borrowed six loans. And in March 2018, Mr H borrowed three such loans totalling 
£550.Two of those loans totalling £350 were still outstanding. 
The credit checks also showed that Mr H was taking out payday loans regularly throughout 
2016.
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. Altogether I thought Bamboos 
credit checks ought to have caused it concerns as Mr Hs finances appeared to be under 
pressure and suggested that Mr H was likely struggling to manage his money. This was 
shown on its credit checks by Mr Hs relatively recent need for a relatively high amount of 
credit as shown by two credit card accounts near their respective credit limits, a total of 19 
cash advances taken between December 2017 and February 2018, a current account 
recently over its overdraft limit for five months and six recent loans in the six months prior to 
his loan application. I thought it would have been reasonable for Bamboo to conclude from its credit checks that despite the disposable income it had calculated, it was likely that Mr H 
was having significant financial difficulties and wouldnt be able to repay the loan without the 
repayments having an adverse effect on his financial situation. 
Id noted that Bamboo had said that there was no evidence of cash advances on any of     
Mr Hs credit cards, and there appeared to be a categorisation error on the credit reports. I 
disagreed. The checks showed the number of cash advances taken each month on one 
credit card from November 2017 to February 2018, and the total value of the advances each 
month. The data summary at the beginning of the credit checks also summarised the cash 
advances taken. I couldnt see evidence of a categorisation error on the checks. 
Bamboo said that Mr H had told it that his payday loans would be settled within the next two 
months and he wouldnt need any moving forward. Hed also said he would be using the 
loan proceeds to consolidate some of his debts. I couldnt see from the information received 
from Bamboo that it had made debt consolidation a condition of the loan. So, it couldnt be 
sure that the loans would be paid off. And Mr H would still have been left with a relatively 
large amount of debt to repay even if he did repay some of his debts with the loan proceeds. 
I also thought the regularity and relatively high amount of short term borrowing and multiple 
cash advances shown on the credit checks might have suggested that Mr H was having 
serious problems managing his finances that a debt consolidation wouldnt have solved.     
Mr Hs need for credit appeared to be an ongoing one and his finances werent stable. 
Bamboo also said that as the loan purpose was for debt consolidation, it considered that    
Mr H could have improved his financial situation. But, in view of Mr Hs recent need to 
borrow as shown in Bamboos credit checks, I didnt think it could safely assume that Mr H 
wouldnt borrow again after hed received its loan. 
I could also see that even if Mr H had used the proceeds of the loan for debt consolidation, 
his total indebtedness was still increasing. He would be using a loan of £2,000 to repay debt, 
but he would need around £4,084 to repay that loan over the loan term.  
I also didnt think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on statistical information about Mr Hs 
living costs without verifying them. Bamboo used ONS data, which was based on the 
finances and expenditure of the average consumer, to estimate Mr Hs living expenses. But 
Mr Hs multiple recent credit applications meant that Bamboo knew it was providing a loan to 
someone who fell outside this average portfolio. I didnt think that using ONS data  which 
was unlikely to reflect the existing commitments of someone in Mr Hs circumstances - was 
fair, reasonable, and proportionate. 
Altogether, I didnt think that Bamboo had carried out proportionate checks. Its affordability 
assessment wasnt tailored to Mr H and I thought it should have been in his circumstances.
Id noted that Bamboo had said that Mr H had a monthly disposable income of £1,022.75 to 
meet the monthly proposed loan repayment of £113.45, and that this showed that the 
payments should have been affordable for Mr H. It seemed to me that Bamboo was 
focussing on its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mr H on a pounds and 
pence basis. But the lender was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably make 
his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might 
be an indication that a borrower could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt  
automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow 
further in order to make their payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their repayments if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Id said that I wasnt going to investigate what further checks might have shown in view of 
what Id said above. Overall, I was satisfied that the available information demonstrated that 
Mr H wasnt in a position to take on any more debt and so Bamboos decision to arrange the 
loan wasnt fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Agreeing further credit for Mr H was 
only likely to add to his financial pressures. And, I thought Bamboo ought to have been 
concerned about Mr Hs ability to repay its loan out of his usual means, without borrowing, 
as it didnt appear he was managing to do so with his existing debt.
Id noted that Bamboo had said that the loan performed as expected before Mr H settled it 
early. But I didnt think that necessarily meant that the loan repayments were repaid 
sustainably without Mr H having to borrow further to meet the repayments and without being 
caused undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
Id also noted that Bamboo has referred to information contained in a recent credit report. 
But Id made my decision on the basis of the information available to Bamboo and what it 
ought reasonably to have known at the time of the loan.
So, I didnt think Bamboo had treated Mr H fairly in providing Loan 1 to him and subject to 
any further representations by Mr H or Bamboo, I said that I intended to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint about Loan 1.
Loan 2
Id noted that Loan 1 was repaid early, and Mr H borrowed Loan 2 around ten months after 
repaying Loan 1. Loan 2 was repayable by 11 monthly repayments of £139.16 and one 
monthly repayment of £139.13. The interest rate was 65.88%, (89.9% APR). If Mr H made 
each payment when it was due, hed pay £1,669.89 in total. The loan was repaid on           
28 November 2019.
Id noted that Bamboo again gathered some information from Mr H about his income and 
accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. It assessed his living expenses using 
ONS data. It also carried out a credit check and a check with a credit reference agency using 
Open Banking data on financial behaviour. 
Mr H told Bamboo he was living with his partner and had two dependents, he had a 
mortgage, and his net monthly income was £2,274.  
Bamboo didnt ask Mr H for any information about his living costs. It assessed these as 
£470.55 according to ONS data. As Id said above, I didnt think the use of ONS data was 
appropriate in Mr Hs circumstances. 
The lender said it used information from its credit checks to assess Mr Hs monthly credit 
commitments as £389.  
Id reviewed Bamboos credit checks and concentrated on Mr Hs recent credit in the          
12 months prior to his application for Loan 2. Id noted that the checks showed that Mr H had  
13 active credit accounts and that three of these had been opened in the previous six 
months. I could see that Mr Hs use of credit cards had decreased so his credit card 
balances had fallen by about £5,400 since hed taken out Loan 1. But at the same time, Id 
noted that Mr Hs total loans balance had increased by around £13,000. I could see that Mr H had one credit card account balance which was at its credit limit. Id 
also noted that he had other credit cards which he wasnt using. Id also seen no recent 
evidence of Mr H making cash withdrawals on his credit cards. 
Id also noted that Mr H had a mail order account and that hed twice missed payments on 
this account two and three months prior to the loan application, and the balance outstanding 
had only reduced from £364 to £352 in three months. 
I could also see that Mr H had taken out an unsecured loan for around £10,000 around ten 
months prior to the loan application and hed taken out another loan for around £3,735 
around three months prior to the loan application. In May 2019, hed taken out a further two 
loans totalling £560. But the checks appeared to show just two other loans taken out in the 
previous 12 months which could have been payday loans, and they didnt show any new 
credit accounts taken out in the three months prior to the loan application.
Mr H had told Bamboo that he was using Loan 2 for debt consolidation. But as the loan was 
for £1,200, this would only repay around a twelfth of Mr Hs debt. I couldnt see from the 
information received from Bamboo that it had made debt consolidation a condition of the 
loan. So, it couldnt be sure that the debt would be paid off. And Mr H would still have been 
left with a large amount of debt to repay even if he did repay some of his debts with the loan 
proceeds.
Id also noted the Open Banking data which showed that Mr H was 65 pence over his 
overdraft limit. Bamboo said that this was a joint account. I could see from the data that the 
overdraft was being used each month, although it wasnt clear if the overdraft balance 
exceeded the overdraft limit at other times. The data also suggested that the account 
holders spending exceeded their income, although it wasnt clear how much of the spending 
was on essential living costs.
Altogether I thought Bamboos credit checks ought to have caused the lender some 
concerns as they suggested that Mr Hs recent finances appeared to be under pressure. 
This was shown by Mr Hs relatively recent need for credit shown by the new loan for around 
£3,735 in June 2019 and the two loans in May 2019, the fact that his credit card balance was 
at its credit limit, and the recent missed payments on Mr Hs mail order account.
Id noted that Bamboo had calculated that Mr H had a monthly disposable income of 
£1,264.45 to meet the monthly proposed loan repayment of £139.16. But I thought Bamboo 
might have been concerned as to why someone with such a large proportion of available 
income (according to its own calculations) would need to borrow expensive credit. I didnt 
consider the disposable income calculated by Bamboo to be consistent with the amount of 
relatively recent credit Mr H had taken out, his missed payments, and the need to borrow a 
high cost loan.
Looking at everything in the round, I didnt think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on the 
ONS data and the information provided by Mr H without verifying it. I thought Bamboo should 
reasonably have taken steps to gain a more thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial 
position in order to satisfy itself that he could repay Loan 2 without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments, without failing to make any contractual or statutory payments and without 
the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation. It could have 
done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr H, asking for copies of bills 
and/or receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information about his existing 
credit commitments. Bamboo didnt say that it took steps to do this, other than to verify       
Mr Hs income using the Open Banking data. So overall, I didnt think the checks Bamboo 
had carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate. But that in itself didnt  mean that Mr Hs complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown Bamboo 
that Mr H couldn't repay Loan 2 without the repayments having a significant adverse impact 
on his financial situation. So, I asked the investigator to ask Mr H for copies of his bank 
statements, so I could see what better checks would have shown Bamboo. 
I wasnt suggesting that this was the exact check that Bamboo should have carried out. 
Looking at Mr Hs bank statements was one way of achieving that although there were other 
ways that level of detail could be established. But I thought that by looking at Mr Hs bank 
statements, I would be able to get a good idea of what better checks might have shown. 
Despite our request, Mr H hadnt provided us with copies of his bank statements from 
around the time of Loan 2. So, I wasnt able to get a picture of what his financial situation 
was like at the relevant time. That meant I couldnt say that, if Bamboo had completed 
further checks, it wouldve found that Mr H couldnt afford to repay Loan 2. So, based on the 
information Id seen, I wasnt able to conclude that Bamboo shouldnt have agreed to provide 
Loan 2 to Mr H. Id said that if Mr H could provide us with the relevant copies of his bank 
statements, I would reconsider my decision. But subject to any further representations by   
Mr H or Bamboo, I didnt intend to say that Mr Hs complaint about Loan 2 should be upheld.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think Bamboo had acted fairly when it provided 
Loan 1 to Mr H. Subject to any further representations by Mr H or Bamboo, I intended to say 
that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld in part, and that Bamboo should put things right as 
follows: 
Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do
I dont think Bamboo should have agreed to give Loan 1 to Mr H. So, Bamboo should:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr H paid on Loan 1;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to  
Loan 1.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted it.
Bamboo responded to my provisional decision to say that it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr H and Bamboo have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that Iuphold this complaint in part and require Bamboo to take the steps set out above under the 
heading Putting things right - what Bamboo needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, to put things right as Ive set 
out above under the heading Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman