DRN-3850480
The complaint
Mr H complains Cofunds Limited trading as Aegon (Cofunds) unreasonably delayed the 
transfer of his stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) to his new platform 
manager. 
What happened
Mr H held a Cofunds stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) which he was 
looking to transfer to a new provider. However, he became concerned about the time the 
transfer was taking and complained about this (and other related issues) on three occasions. 
Cofunds responded to the first complaint in October 2020 and said the transfer request had 
been forwarded to the wrong department and they had difficulty identifying the correct 
account. They offered £150 compensation and apologised. 
Cofunds responded to the second complaint in February 2021. At this time, they didnt think 
they were responsible for delays and were waiting for information from Mr Hs new provider. 
They also explained they couldnt add the new financial adviser because he wasnt 
registered. 
Cofunds responded to the third complaint in October 2021. They didnt accept they had 
caused delay to the transfer. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked our service to investigate. Although complaints had been 
raised separately, Cofunds agreed it was sensible for our service to deal with the complaint 
about the delay to the transfer as a whole. 
Our Investigator looked into things and felt Cofunds had caused some delay. Cofunds 
agreed and made an offer to put things right. Our Investigator felt the offer was fair. Mr H 
didnt accept the view and felt Cofunds were responsible for more of the delay. So, the case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Transfer request form and letter of authority 
Mr H first sought to initiate the transfer in April 2020. Ive seen correspondence between Mr 
H, his new adviser, his new platform manager, and his old adviser. The transfer request was 
also sent on to a separate firm which doesnt appear to be relevant. But Ive not seen 
evidence the transfer request was sent to Cofunds until 2 September 2020. So, I cant 
reasonably conclude Cofunds were responsible for any delay prior to this date. 
 
Cofunds have accepted some delay after receiving the request. I agree Cofunds should 
have processed the request correctly. Cofunds made an offer to recognise this, and Ill come 
back to this below. I would note Im not persuaded this issue had a significant impact on the 
length of time taken to transfer the assets. This is because Cofunds promptly contacted the 
new platform manager on 15 September 2020 and 6 October 2020 and requested necessary 
information. 
Mr H also said it took Cofunds too long to remove his old adviser. Ive not seen evidence to 
show Cofunds were provided with this instruction prior to an email on 24 September 2020. 
Cofunds have explained the old advisor was removed on 30 September 2020 and I can see 
they notified Mr H on 6 October 2020. Im satisfied the timescales were reasonable here.
 
There were two key issues detailed by Cofunds in emails from September and October 
2020. Firstly, Mr Hs new advisor and new platform manager did not have authority to speak 
to Cofunds on Mr Hs behalf. Secondly, Cofunds couldnt accept the transfer request form. 
Ive reviewed the form and can see it was incomplete, hard to read and wasnt signed. 
Therefore, I cant conclude Cofunds should have progressed the transfer.  
Mr H complained to Cofunds in December 2020 and only then did Cofunds get back in touch 
with the new platform manager. But Im not persuaded this was unreasonable as Cofunds 
had already explained what they needed. 
There was complaint correspondence between December 2020 and February 2021. 
Cofunds explained they couldnt give Mr Hs new advisor authority to act on his behalf 
because the advisor was not registered with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Im 
satisfied this was reasonably explained and was in line with Cofunds terms and conditions. 
They set this out in their email to Mr H on 3 February 2021. They also reiterated the missing 
information from the transfer form in their email to Mr H on 15 February 2021. 
Ive not been provided with evidence Cofunds received further information until the new 
platform manager sent a transfer request form on 29 April 2021. However, there was some 
missing information (for example, investor number, product number and date of birth) which 
was necessary for Cofunds to identify Mr H. This was received on 5 May 2021. Cofunds 
began processing the transfer on 11 May 2021. Im not persuaded this was an unreasonable 
length of time. 
Id also note there was no LoA on file for the new platform manager. On 13 May 2021 
Cofunds requested a LoA from Mr H, which the new platform manager sent on the same 
day. Cofunds got back in touch with the new provider explaining they needed a revised LoA 
on headed paper and the new provider wasnt set up on Cofunds system.
 
The revised LoA was sent on 18 May 2021 and on 24 May 2021 the new platform manager 
confirmed they didnt want to transfer servicing rights - they just wanted a transfer of the ISA 
itself. Im satisfied the new platform manager was reasonably clear in what they were trying 
to achieve and that they werent looking to be set up on Cofunds platform. 
However, Cofunds still rejected the LoA and it wasnt until the new provider confirmed they 
wanted information only access that the LoA was added on 13 July 2021. Cofunds then 
sent the account information to the new platform manager. Im not satisfied it was 
reasonable for Cofunds to have rejected the LoA in May 2021 because the new platform 
manager had been sufficiently clear about what they wanted to achieve. 
Therefore, Cofunds caused some delay to the transfer when they unreasonably rejected the 
LoA from May 2021. I can see Cofunds received Mr Hs passport on 17 June 2021, and they 
needed this to progress the transfer. So, Cofunds caused a delay between 17 June 2021 
and 13 July 2021. Ill come back to this below. 
 Transfer 
Cofunds identified three funds which werent acceptable under the new platform managers 
criteria. They notified the new platform manager on 27 July 2021. Mr H agreed to sell the 
funds and instruction was received by Cofunds on 11 August 2021. The sales were placed 
within five calendar days of the instruction being received. Additionally, the other funds which 
were being transferred in-specie were completed between 18 and 23 August 2021. So, Im 
not concerned about any delay being caused by Cofunds here. 
However, Cofunds have accepted they didnt omit the zeros correctly from the account 
number when making the transfer. Therefore, when Cofunds transferred £27,895.99 on 9 
September 2021 it failed and wasnt completed successfully until 30 September 2021. This 
meant there was delay of 21 days.  
I note there was a second transfer in relation to sale proceeds from Invesco Asian (UK) Y A. 
Ive seen Cofunds initially tried to transfer the holdings in-specie and reasonably used the 
designation provided by the new platform manager. The fund manager rejected the request 
several times because the designation didnt match. The fund manager went on to inform 
Cofunds that the new provider couldnt hold this fund and Mr H agreed for it to be sold. 
Therefore, I cant say Cofunds are responsible for the time taken here and Ive not seen 
evidence which shows they were provided with instructions to sell before November 2021. 
Cofunds made the second transfer on 17 November 2021 of £6,727.69. It was returned and 
transferred properly to the new platform manager on 25 November 2021, so there was also 
some delay here. 
There was also an issue with the designation for the Lion Trust Growth 1 Acc fund. But 
again, Cofunds reasonably relied on the information provided by the new platform manager. 
I can see despite it being rejected the transfer of this fund completed within four working 
days.
Overall, Cofunds partly contributed to the time taken to transfer Mr Hs assets and should put 
things right.  
Putting things right
Cofunds didnt correctly deal with the LoA from May 2021 and theyd also been given the 
correct bank details. So, the transfer could have been progressed sooner and the funds 
transferred more promptly. Cofunds agreed and made an offer to put things right in response 
to our Investigators view.  
Mr H has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of the service provided by 
Cofunds. In light of the delay, Im satisfied Cofunds should pay Mr H a total of £350 as this 
fairly recognises the emotional impact. This includes the £150 previously offered. 
In respect of the three investments which sold for a total of £27,895.99, Im satisfied that had 
there been no delay its likely these holdings would have been sold on 21 July 2021 and the 
sale proceeds transferred by 16 August 2021. So, in line with Cofunds offer, they should: 
A. Calculate the amount which would have been transferred had there been no delay.
B. Enquire with the new platform manager about whether the funds actually transferred 
were invested and the impact of the later transfer. Also, determine the total value of 
any investments made and how many units were purchased. 
C. Calculate how many units could have been purchased had the amount calculated under point A been transferred on 16 August 2021. 
D. If more units could have been purchased, Cofunds should calculate the unit price as 
of the date of acceptance of the decision and transfer sufficient money to the new 
platform manager to enable those additional units to be purchased.
E. If the actual amount transferred was invested across more than one investment, they 
should assume the same proportion of the money would have been used to purchase 
units in each separate investment.  
In respect of the £6,726.69, Im satisfied that had Cofunds not made an error when 
transferring the sale proceeds its likely the money would have been sent to the new platform 
manager on 17 November 2021 as opposed to 25 November 2021. In line with their offer, 
Cofunds should: 
A. Enquire with the new platform manager if the funds transferred on 25 November 
2021 were invested, the impact of the later transfer, the total value of any 
investments made and how many units were purchased. 
B. Calculate how many units could have been purchased had £6,726.69 been 
transferred on 17 November 2021. 
C. If more units could have been purchased, Cofunds should calculate the unit price as 
of the date of acceptance of the decision and transfer sufficient money to the new 
platform manager to enable those additional units to be purchased. 
D. If the actual amount transferred was invested across more than one investment, they 
should assume the same proportion of the money would have been used to purchase 
units in each separate investment.  
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. Its not always 
possible to say exactly what would have happened with certainty. However, this remedy is 
the most pragmatic way to put Mr H in as close to the position he would likely be in had there 
been no delay. It may be that Mr H wouldnt have been in a position to purchase more units 
had there been no delay because the value of the investments sold or the units purchased 
may have fluctuated. 
 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Cofunds Limited trading as Aegon should put things right in 
the way outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman