DRN-3555730
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) delayed the payment of her 
benefits from her personal pension plan (PPP) and had unreasonable requirements to verify 
her identity under anti-money laundering regulations. She wants Aviva to delete the 
unnecessary information it holds and compensation for the inconvenience. 
  
What happened
In December 2021 Mrs B wanted to withdraw some funds from her PPP. Aviva asked her for 
a bank statement as part of its identity verification process. Mrs B provided one but redacted 
details she didnt want to share with Aviva, including payee, payer, transaction, and overdraft 
details. Aviva said this meant the statement wasnt valid for the verification process. Mrs B 
queried this and asked for an explanation. 
Aviva said as well as confirmatory information it also needed to see some transaction 
history, but that this information wasnt scrutinized. Mrs B says this wasnt a satisfactory 
explanation and that that Aviva wasnt requesting proportionate or reasonable information 
as the redacted statement provided the necessary information to verify it was her account 
and that it was active. 
Mrs B says she reluctantly provided an unredacted statement. But she raised a complaint 
with Aviva saying its requirements were unreasonable and that it had implied by not wanting 
to provide unredacted information there was a high risk she was committing fraud. She also 
said her withdrawal had been held up unreasonably due to Avivas requirements, which had 
been distressing and inconvenient. 
Aviva didnt accept Mrs Bs complaint. It said it had followed its processes correctly and 
explained things to her appropriately. It said it needed an unredacted bank statement to 
confirm that payment was being made to the right person and to an active account. Mrs B 
said an alternative payment method, such as a cheque could have been proposed. And she 
asked that Aviva delete the additional data after it had processed her withdrawal. 
Aviva said it would delete the data. It said the banking rules, HMRC guidelines, and anti-
fraud and terrorism legislation was vast, containing multiple elements and was open to 
interpretation and it was inappropriate to quote specifics. It said explaining how and why 
checks were carried out was business sensitive information. It said it no longer offered 
payments by cheque, due to security concerns.    
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but she didnt 
uphold it. 
Our investigator said Aviva had explained it had followed the same processes as for all other 
customers, which was referred to in its terms and conditions (T&Cs). So, it hadnt singled 
Mrs B out, or treated her with suspicion or treated her unfairly. She said the T&Cs said that 
bank accounts would need to be verified before payments could be made and Mrs B had 
accepted this when she took out the plan. And whilst the T&Cs didnt set out specific 
procedures, they referred to processes Aviva have to prevent both fraud and money 
laundering as it is required to do under Government regulations. 
Our investigator said any information Mrs B had provided to Aviva would, as personal data, 
be treated confidentially and processed securely as required by the Data Protection Act. She 
said it had promptly confirmed it would delete the statement data from its systems after Mrs 
B requested this. And she said she thought Aviva had explained things and responded to 
queries in a reasonable period of time. She said it hadnt explained processes in detail as to 
do so would undermine the safety checks in place. She said there was no evidence Aviva 
had delayed the payment of Mrs Bs benefits, which was made within a few working days 
once the unredacted statement was provided, which was a reasonable timescale.
Mrs B said shed held the plan for number of years and disagreed that to now verify her 
identity and bank account Aviva needed full details of my receipts and payments. She said 
Aviva requirements went far beyond those required under the money laundering guidance 
and identify verification could have been carried out by other means. She said Avivas 
approach was:
unreasonable  not risk based; may breach data protection requirements and is 
designed in substance to delay the transfer of funds to their rightful owner. 
As Mrs B doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate businesses, 
which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell Aviva or other 
businesses to change administrative procedures or impose sanctions on it even if I think 
there have been failings. What I can consider is whether a businesss mistakes caused 
someone a financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience and, if so, what the business 
needs to do to put things right. 
Having considered what happened here and the points made by Mrs B I dont think Aviva 
treated her unfairly or caused an unreasonable delay. I wouldnt expect Aviva to release any 
payment before it was satisfied that it was being sent to the right person and it held the 
correct payment details. Once Mrs B had provided an unredacted bank statement it made 
the payment to her within three working days, which I think is a reasonable timeframe. 
As Mrs B has said much of the money laundering requirements arent strictly prescribed in 
legislation. Instead, guidance is issued with the business to form its own reasonable 
procedures of when and how it carries out customer due diligence and that does mean this 
is open to interpretation and one persons view of whats reasonable and proportionate will 
differ from anothers. But the guidance does require that these details be kept up to date and 
applied on occasional transactions, so asking Mrs B for confirmation when she wanted to 
draw benefits doesnt seem unreasonable. 
Aviva risks significant penalties if its procedures are subsequently found to be inadequate 
and it also has a duty of care to protect its customers from fraud and I dont think its 
unreasonable that these procedures be robust. It also isnt unreasonable that the exact 
procedures be kept confidential, as doing otherwise would undermine their effectiveness. So, I dont think Avivas requirements were unreasonable, disproportionate or designed to 
cause delay in Mrs B accessing her benefits. For example, Aviva was prepared to accept a 
copy of the bank statement electronically rather than requiring the original statement to be 
physically provided. And I think Avivas procedures are typical of those used across the 
financial services industry and theres no evidence Mrs B was treated differently from any 
other Aviva customer in the same situation.
I think Aviva was reasonably seeking to protect both Mrs B and itself from possible fraud by 
wanting to adequately confirm both her identity and the bank account details to which she 
wanted payment to be made. I understand Mrs B concerns about privacy, but I think the 
image she initially provided of her bank statement was excessively redacted and didnt 
provide the information Aviva reasonably considered to be required for both identity 
verification and anti-fraud measures. 
Whilst there is no suggestion that Mrs B was high risk, I dont think Aviva querying the 
redactions was unfair. The guidance requires that it be satisfied that the documents supplied 
were genuine and I think a redacted document would be easier to forge, if it were the case 
that Mrs B had been the victim of fraud herself.  
Aviva is also required to treat Mrs Bs personal data as confidential and to process it 
securely under the Data Protection Act and theres no evidence it hasnt done so. And I think 
Aviva treated her fairly in agreeing to and promptly deleting the further information once its 
processes were completed. 
So, I dont think Aviva treated Mrs B unfairly or unreasonably by asking for the information it 
did, which appears to be its standard procedures applied to all customers. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman