DRN-1467175
 
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy about the way Kindertons have handled her claim for accident damage to 
her car.
What happened
In early September 2019, Miss P was involved in a road traffic accident. She said as she 
was turning right to join a queue of traffic, the car in front reversed into her. She said the 
other driver admitted he was at fault. As she said the accident wasnt her fault Miss P was 
referred to Kindertons, an accident management company (AMC) to handle her claim.
Miss P said she gave Kindertons the other drivers name and address, as she hadnt got the 
car registration number. She said Kindertons hadnt done enough to trace and pursue her 
claim as they couldnt locate the other drivers insurer. And after she got the car registration 
number, they told her, incorrectly that the other driver wasnt insured. 
She also feels they missed the opportunity to obtain CCTV evidence showing she wasnt at 
fault. And the other driver is now disputing liability. Miss P doesnt see why she should have 
to claim on her insurance policy when she hadnt caused the accident.
Kindertons said theyd tried to get the CCTV but the owner hadnt been helpful. And they 
werent initially able to trace the other driver with the information Miss P had given them.  
Miss P wasnt happy with Kindertons response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator found that Kindertons had acted reasonably in trying to obtain evidence to 
be able to make a claim on Miss Ps behalf. But said Kindertons could have provided a 
better service by updating Miss P. He asked Kindertons to pay £50 to Miss P for this.
Neither Miss P or Kindertons agreed. Miss P didnt think this reflected the amount of worry 
and upset she had experienced. Kindertons said Miss P took away their opportunity to keep 
her updated by being proactive in calling them.
Both have asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt our role to consider who was at fault for the accident or to investigate the 
accident claim. But to look to see whether Kindertons has acted fairly and reasonably in 
handling Miss Ps claim.Kindertons, as an AMC, aim to provide their customers with a hire vehicle, if needed, and 
repair the damage caused to the vehicle by the accident. They would claim these costs back 
from the third-party insurer (TPI). When Miss P contacted Kindertons, they started to provide 
this service because shed said the accident wasnt her fault as a car had reversed into her. 
As part of the claims process Kindertons has a duty to mitigate costs as the TPI can refuse 
to pay. The TPI will act on behalf of their policyholder, and without an independent witness 
statement theyd rely on their policyholders version of events.
I can see Miss P told Kindertons that she was getting a quote from her local garage as the 
other driver was willing to pay as he didnt want to go through his insurance. But the next day 
after she sent the quote to the other driver he said he wasnt at fault and wouldnt pay. She 
told Kindertons she would contact the police and see if she could locate any CCTV. And the 
police later confirmed she did contact them to report the incident that day.
On the same day Kindertons called the other driver  for his version of events. But didnt get a 
response. Two days later they tried to get CCTV from a business near the scene of the 
accident. In this call they got a named contact and email address. But it wasnt until Miss P 
called for an update several days later that Kindertons, as they hadnt got the CCTV, made a 
follow up call and an email was sent. 
I can understand Miss Ps frustration as she feels the CCTV would have shown the accident 
wasnt her fault. And believes as Kindertons didn't request the CCTV straightaway 
this evidence was lost as the CCTV was over written. But this isnt what the business owner 
told Kindertons. He said their CCTV didnt cover the area in which the accident had 
happened. And I have no reason to doubt that. Kindertons can only act on the information 
given by the owner of the CCTV. So, I cant hold Kindertons responsible for not 
having CCTV evidence to challenge the TPI about liability.
I know Miss P thinks Kindertons could have done more to trace the other driver and progress 
her claim. But Kindertons didnt have the car registration number. And I can see they tried to 
get the other driver to give his version of events, by calling and writing to him. But he didnt 
respond. Kindertons also asked the police for the details, but they didnt give it to them. 
Miss P did trace the car registration number herself and passed this on to Kindertons. But 
from Kindertons notes I can see that one digit was noted incorrectly. This might explain why 
when using the other drivers name, address and car registration number they didnt, at first. 
find a valid insurance policy. 
When the TPI was found, they didnt accept liability as their policyholder said it was Miss P 
who had driven into him. As Kindertons handle no fault claims, once liability is disputed they 
couldnt arrange for Miss Ps car to be repaired,  as they couldnt be certain the costs would 
be recovered from the TPI. When this happens Id expect an AMC to refer their customer 
back to their insurer.  And this is what Kindertons did.
Our investigator said Kindertons should pay Miss P £50 for trouble and upset as shed had 
to call Kindertons for updates. While I agree Miss P was proactive in calling Kindertons. I do 
think there was a delay in chasing for a response to their CCTV request, as this was only 
done after Miss P called. 
 
 
 Putting things right
I can see Miss P feels very strongly about whats happened here, as she has said she 
wasnt to blame for the accident. But I'm satisfied Kindertons tried to get the evidence to 
challenge the TPI about liability. And advised Miss P correctly when this evidence couldnt 
be had. 
I don't think there was CCTV that would have challenged the TPI's liability. But if the 
CCTV request had been followed up sooner by Kindertons I think a meaningful update, 
whether positive or negative, could have been given to Miss P preventing the need for her to 
call. So, I agree Kindertons should pay Miss P £50.
I understand Miss Ps car is still damaged and I know this will not be the answer she is 
looking for. But she may be able to claim under her insurance policy. It will then be for her 
insurer to determine who was at fault for the damage.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Kindertons to pay Miss P £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman