DRN-3265727
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P are unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC havent refunded money they lost as a result 
of a scam. 
Mr P has brought the complaint to this service so for ease Ill only refer to him throughout the 
decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr P was encouraged by a friend to invest 
in cryptocurrencies through a merchant. After completing some research, Mr P started 
sending money from a joint account to the merchant through a cryptocurrency exchange in 
January 2019. In total, Mr P sent around £85,000 in eight payments between January 2019 
and April 2019 to the cryptocurrency exchange. He then sent two further payments in 
April 2019 to his son (totalling £25,000) who forwarded these to the cryptocurrency 
exchange and then to the merchant on his behalf. 
Mr P was able to make a £2,998.72 withdrawal from the merchant in March 2019 which 
reassured him the investment was going well. So, he made further payments to the 
merchant through the cryptocurrency exchange in March 2019. Lloyds contacted Mr P 
individually about three payments he made in March 2019, but Mr P said he was satisfied he 
was investing through a cryptocurrency exchange and the payments were allowed to be 
sent. A few months later, Mr P asked to make a further withdrawal but was told by the 
merchant he couldnt unless he paid a £25,000 release fee. This led to Mr P becoming 
suspicious and he lost contact with the merchant. 
Mr P raised the scam claim with Lloyds who said it couldnt retrieve his funds. It said the 
payments were made before a voluntary code known as the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) was introduced in May 2019 so that couldnt be considered here. And that 
when it contacted the receiving bank no funds remained. 
Mr P remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said Lloyds 
shouldve done more to protect his money. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the payments Mr P 
made to the merchant didnt seem unusual or suspicious compared to other transactions 
Mr P had previously made. And that Lloyds held and spoke to Mr P about three of the 
payments he made of £10,000 on 25 March 2019, £20,000 on 26 March 2019 and £10,000 
on 27 March 2019. The investigator said Lloyds has provided call notes that show Mr P was 
satisfied the payments were going to a cryptocurrency exchange and there were no live 
warnings about the merchant to refer to. The investigator added that Mr P had received a 
payment of £2,998.72 back from the merchant so he was more than likely reassured this 
wasnt a scam at the time Lloyds spoke to him about the payments. 
Mr P disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he had lost his life 
savings and had incorrectly put his faith in Lloyds to protect his money. He added that he 
should get his money refunded to him because Lloyds had failed to protect him under the 
British Standards Institutes Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud 
or financial abuse  Code of Practice (the BSI code). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr P has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that Mr P authorised the scam payments totalling £82,003.28. I accept 
that these were authorised payments even though Mr P was the victim of a scam. So, 
although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr P is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
Practice (such as the BSI code Mr P has mentioned) and good industry practice, there are 
circumstances where it might be appropriate for Lloyds to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr P to Lloyds (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity. So, Ive 
reviewed the account statements around the time Mr P made the payments in question here. 
The account typically maintained a healthy balance which ranged between around £1,000 
and on occasions up to around £34,000. And there was a transaction of £10,000 in 
November 2018 and £4,696 in December 2018.  
As a result, Im satisfied Mr Ps first payment of £20,000 ought to have stood out to Lloyds as 
unusual or suspicious because he hadnt recently made similarly large payments and I think 
it represented a change in his account activity due to it being the first large transaction to a 
new payee. So, I think there was enough for Lloyds to consider that payment as sufficiently 
unusual that it ought to have asked questions of him at that point, before releasing the 
payment. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether Lloyds contacting Mr P and speaking to him about the 
£20,000 transaction wouldve made a difference here. But Im afraid I dont think it wouldve. 
Thats because Ive listened to the calls Mr P had with Lloyds in March 2019 after his later 
transactions flagged on its system as suspicious. 
Having done so, Im satisfied he was asked probing questions about why he was making the 
payment and how he was initially contacted. Lloyds then explained the common types of 
scams that it was seeing at the time including investment scams where people were tricked 
into believing they were dealing with legitimate investment companies but lost all their 
money. Lloyds continued to give Mr P warnings about the dangers of falling for scams, but Mr P said that he knew the people he was investing with and that he had been told to do this 
by a financial advisor. Mr P reassured Lloyds at the time that he was aware of the dangers, 
that Lloyds had told him this before, and that he was being very cautious. 
So, the payments were allowed to be sent. And because Mr P was confident he could trust 
the advice he had been given and the research he had completed, Im satisfied  its more 
likely than not he wouldve ignored Lloyds warnings when he made the £20,000 payment. 
I feel its worth pointing out that I dont think the payments Mr P made to his son in late April 
2019 wouldve been seen as unusual to Lloyds here. These were the last payments to be 
sent for this scam and Lloyds had been put on notice that Mr P was making large transfers. 
It had spoken to Mr P and provided various fraud warnings already. So, I dont think in the 
circumstances here, that him sending money to a regular payee on his account would be 
seen as suspicious or as a loss on Mr Ps account because it was sent to his son then to a 
cryptocurrency exchange and then to the scammers. 
Ive considered what Mr P has said that more shouldve been done by Lloyds to stop the 
transactions. I note that Lloyds system did detect the three payments in March 2019 which 
is what Id expect it to do. Its good that Lloyds did intervene on three occasions. But, 
however many times they intervened, I dont think it would have made a difference to the 
outcome here. Ive found that Lloyds did enough to make Mr P aware of the risks of the 
payments he was instructing, but it was ultimately his choice to go ahead. I also note that 
even if the merchant to whom the payments were going was specifically discussed, there 
were no FCA warnings about it at that time. 
Mr P was also reassured by his own research, the withdrawal he had received earlier in 
March 2019 and that his son had made some money investing through the same 
cryptocurrency exchange he was sending the money to. 
Mr P has confirmed that when he made payments to the cryptocurrency exchange these 
were moved to the scammers immediately and has shown evidence that this also happened 
when his son transferred the money to the cryptocurrency exchange on his behalf. I note 
Lloyds didnt contact the cryptocurrency exchange to see if any funds remained. But I dont 
think this means Mr P has been treated unfairly here. As Mr P has mentioned, he used the 
cryptocurrency exchange only to convert his funds into cryptocurrency before moving to the 
scammer. So, its unlikely that theres any of his funds left in the account in his name at the 
cryptocurrency exchange. As a result, I dont think Lloyds not contacting the cryptocurrency 
exchange has made any difference in the recovery of Mr Ps money. 
Im sorry to hear Mr P lost the funds to the scammers. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think Lloyds have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman