DRN-3012695
The complaint
Miss S complains that Nationwide Building Society made several errors when transferring an 
existing cash individual savings account (ISA) to them 
What happened
Miss S asked Nationwide to transfer her existing ISA from another provider in April 2021. 
The ISA with the other provider matured on 20 May. Nationwide submitted two transfer 
requests and when the ISA matured, the other provider sent Nationwide a cheque for the 
funds in the account. They told Nationwide theyd rejected the second of the applications 
and Nationwide told Miss S the transfer request had been declined.
The other ISA provider sent Nationwide a cheque for the transfer amount and Nationwide 
opened the ISA account on 15 June.
Miss S complained to Nationwide that theyd failed to spot their error and told her to contact 
the other ISA provider. Miss S says there was no need to contact the other provider and that 
when she went into a local branch of Nationwide, she was promised a call back from the 
manager. This didnt happen.
Nationwide provided Miss S with a final response. They accepted theyd sent two transfer 
requests in error and that theyd told Miss S the transfer had been declined. Nationwide said 
they couldnt find any evidence to show the branch manager had called as promised. They 
said the account had been opened on 15 June and theyd backdated the interest on the 
account to the date she applied for her ISA with them, and they offered to pay Miss S 
£200.00 for the inconvenience theyd caused her.
Miss S didnt accept the offer from Nationwide and brought her complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into things for her and thought that Nationwides offer was a fair 
and reasonable one. Miss S doesnt agree with our investigator. She said the funds being 
transferred were her life savings and at the time she didnt know what was happening to 
them. She said that she might have needed the funds. Miss S didnt think the offer from 
Nationwide was a reasonable one and has asked that an ombudsman decides her 
complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide accept they sent two transfer requests to the other ISA provider and that they 
told Miss S in error that the transfer had been declined. So, I wont be looking into what went 
wrong within the transfer process. Instead I will consider the impact of what happened on 
Miss S and whether what Nationwide offered is reasonable.
I appreciate that Miss S will be disappointed with my final decision, but for very much the 
same reasons as our investigator, I consider the offer Nationwide made was a fair and 
reasonable one. I will now explain why.
The application to transfer the ISA completed as I would have expected it to. The other ISA 
provider received a transfer application and on 28 May, and a week after the ISA matured, 
they sent a cheque to Nationwide for the maturity value. The other provider explained to 
Nationwide that they sent a cheque because of the high value of the transfer. Nationwide 
say in their ISA terms that it will take up to 15 working days from when they receive a 
request to complete the transfer of a cash ISA. However, in this case Nationwide sent the 
request, but they were reliant on the other ISA provider to transfer the funds after the ISA 
matured. 
Ive seen that the other ISA provider sent a cheque on 28 May and Nationwide opened Miss 
Ss ISA on 15 June. Im satisfied that this was within 15 working days of when Miss Ss other 
ISA matured. I consider its important I confirm this as Miss S says she suffered additional 
distress because she thought she may have needed some of the funds to help with her living 
costs. However, Im satisfied Miss S applied for the transfer knowing that it couldnt happen 
before the maturity date of 20 May, and that the transfer would take up to 15 working days 
after the maturity date. I dont consider Miss S was without access to the funds for any 
longer than she wouldve reasonable have expected to be. So, I wont be asking Nationwide 
to pay any additional compensation in this regard.
Nationwide have told Miss S that theyve backdated the interest on her ISA with them to the 
date of her application. This is almost two months before the Nationwide ISA account was 
opened, so this is something I wouldnt ask Nationwide to do.
I understand Miss S may have been worried for a time, especially because the transfer 
involved a significant amount of her life savings. However, as Ive already said the transfer 
itself completed within a reasonable time, I consider the offer of £200.00 from Nationwide is 
a reasonable one. I consider it fairly reflects the time Miss S had to spend visiting the local 
branch and waiting for a telephone call from the branch manager that didnt happen. It also 
takes into account the uncertainty Miss S wouldve felt while she waited for her ISA account 
with Nationwide to be opened after shed been told the transfer had been declined.   
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay Miss S £200.00 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Miss S £200.00.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman