DRN-4504261
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with how Santander handled her attempt to port her mortgage rate to a 
different property. She considers it unfair that Santander has retained the full early 
repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Mrs E took out a repayment mortgage with Santander in 2017. It was originally taken out on 
a residential basis but was converted to a consent to let. Around January 2020, Mrs E took 
out a 5 year fixed rate deal. The rate was fixed at 2.99% until 2 April 2025.
The Mortgage Offer show that, as is typical with such an arrangement, the rate came with an 
ERC  an amount that Mrs E would need to pay if the mortgage was repaid before the end 
of rate term.
In early September 2022, Mrs E says she contacted Santander to ask whether she could 
port the rate to a different property and that she was told this would be possible. She 
redeemed the mortgage (a little over £68,000) shortly after and paid the applicable ERC.
Mrs E contacted Santander shortly after that, to discuss porting the rate and borrowing a 
total of £160,000 in joint names with her husband. This was to buy the property they were 
already living in, which Mrs Es mother in law owned and in which they had been renting. 
Santanders representative took details of Mrs and Mr Es income and expenditure as a first 
stage in the process. Based on the information gathered, they informed Mrs E that borrowing 
of £160,000 was showing as unaffordable. After clarifying some of the income and 
expenditure information and altering the proposed mortgage term, the representative told 
Mrs E that the maximum it could lend was £102,600.
In November 2022, Mrs E made an application through a mortgage broker to borrow
£126,900 in her sole name. The application was declined on affordability grounds.
Mrs E complained shortly after. She said Santander kept dropping the amount it was willing 
to lend and that the situation regarding the ERC was unfair.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said the proposed borrowing had been
unaffordable and that it couldnt see that it had made any error.
Mrs E referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in December 2022. After
being made aware that the case had been allocated to an investigator here, Mrs E said that
she had made another application in February 2023 to Santander directly and that this had
been declined on the grounds that an application would need to be in joint names with her
husband, due to them both living in the property and them having previously held a joint
mortgage.
Because the February application had been made after the complaint was referred to this
Service, Santander would ordinarily need to have the opportunity to consider Mrs Es
concerns about it being declined, before we could get involved. The investigator asked
Santander if it was willing to consent to us considering the concerns about the February
application and it said that it was.
The investigator issued an initial assessment not upholding the complaint. They said they
were satisfied both the November and February applications had been fairly considered.
They said that as the November application had been made through a broker, Santander
hadnt needed to advise Mrs E about its lending criteria and it was reasonable for Santander
to have relied on the information provided in the application.
Mrs E didnt agree. She said shed only gone through a mortgage broker in November 2022
because when she first contacted Santander direct in September 2022, the information it
provided was inconsistent and incorrect, so she felt going through a broker was her only
option.
She said Santander shouldve told her before the February application (following both the
initial contact in September and in response to the broker application in November) that she
wouldnt be able to apply for a mortgage on the property in her sole name, with her husband
also living in the property. Mrs E said she could have understood if the investigator had
suggested that she and Santander should bear joint responsibility (i.e. need to pay some but
not all of the ERC), but not that she should pay the whole thing.
The investigator still thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld, so the case was escalated
for fresh review by an Ombudsman.
In the meantime, the investigator asked Santander to provide recordings of the calls
between Mrs E and Santander on 8 and 15 September 2022. Santander provided a
recording of the 15 September call but said it couldnt find a recording of the 8 September
call. It said this particular call was likely only retained for 6 months due to it being a service
call and not one with a mortgage adviser.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in November 2023. In it, I said:
In order to uphold this complaint and say that Santander needs to do something different, 
Id need to find that it has made an error or otherwise treated Mrs E unfairly. Whilst I
acknowledge that Mrs E feels strongly about this situation, I havent found that to be the
case.
Under the terms of Mrs Es previous mortgage, to be eligible for a refund of the ERC, she
would have needed to have entered into a new mortgage within 3 months of the prior
mortgage having been redeemed. Mrs E redeemed her mortgage on 14 September 2022.
This means that when Mrs E applied direct to Santander in Feb 2023, this was already
outside the timeframe to receive a refund of the ERC.
Mrs Es complaint is that its not fair that Santander has retained the whole ERC, so my
investigation and findings are focused on the period up to 14 December 2022.To determine this complaint, Ive needed to consider the following questions:
-Did Santander give Mrs E incorrect information in September 2022 when she 
enquired about porting her rate?
-Did Santander handle the November broker application, fairly?
-Should Santander have made Mrs E aware, before February 2023, that any 
application would need to be in joint names?
Ive considered these issues in turn.
Did Santander give Mrs E incorrect information in September 2022 when she enquired about
porting her rate?
Mrs E says that when she first made contact in September 2022, she was told that it would
be possible to port her previous rate. Santander says it doesnt have a recording of the call
that took place on 8 September 2022. Although ideally the recording would be available to
listen to, I consider it unlikely to be material to the outcome of the complaint. I say this
because Mrs E has said she was told on this call that she would be able to port her rate in
the event she were to redeem her existing mortgage.
Taking this at face value, such a statement wouldnt have been incorrect at that time, with
the caveat that it would be subject to Santanders lending criteria and underwriting. I cant
know for sure whether and to what extent the person Mrs E spoke to explained this, but
Santanders representative wouldnt have been in a position to guarantee that the rate would
be ported and that a new mortgage application would be successful. So, I think its likely
some kind of caveat wouldve been provided.
Im also mindful that Mrs Es mortgage offer relating to the loan she redeemed says under
section 8 Flexible features You have the right to transfer this loan to another property. You
must meet conditions set out in the mortgage conditions under Transferring your loan to a
new mortgage, You must also meet our lending criteria and pass our affordability
assessment at the time (my emphasis).
Mrs E has said that in the following interaction later in September, the adviser wasnt helpful
and, that they provided inconsistent and inaccurate information and that she didnt have
confidence in them. Ive listened to a recording of the call that took place on 15 September.
Mrs E tells Santanders representative that she wants to port her previous rate and apply
jointly for a new mortgage of £160,000. Santanders representative explains there are three
steps in making a mortgage application, with the first step being an initial evaluation of their
income and expenditure.
If Mrs E had been wanting to port her rate on a like for like basis and without any additional
borrowing, it probably wouldnt have been appropriate for Santander to undertake its usual
affordability checks. However, Mrs E was seeking to borrow more money, so it wasnt
unreasonable for Santander to want to check affordability.
During the call Mrs E supplies details of her and her husbands income and expenditure
details, as well as details of their credit commitments at the time. Based on the information
provided, Santanders representative tells Mrs C that the £160,000 is showing as
unaffordable.
Normally, where the previous mortgage is in someones sole name, the rate can only be
ported where the subsequent mortgage is also in someones sole name. Assuming that wasthe situation here, Santanders representative ought to have explained this to Mrs E. Having
said that, given that the amount requested was showing as unaffordable in joint names, its
highly likely that if Mrs E had pursued a sole application at that point in time, it would also
have come out as unaffordable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I dont currently find that the way Santander approached the
interactions with Mrs E in September 2023, prejudiced her position regarding the ERC.
Did Santander handle the November application via broker, fairly?
Mrs E has said she only applied through a broker in November 2022 because she found the
discussions that took place direct with Santander (described above) unhelpful. I know Mrs E
has said that the information Santanders representative gave was inconsistent and
inaccurate, but (my above comments aside about the ability to a port a rate from sole name
to joint) I did not find this to be the case.
My take of the call is the representative was following the normal process and trying to assist
Mrs E. Ultimately, the representative told Mrs E that the amount she wanted to borrow jointly
with her husband was showing as unaffordable, based on the information she had provided
about their income and expenditure.
Regardless, it was Mrs Es decision to apply through a broker in November and I cannot
reasonably attribute this decision to an error on Santanders part.
The November application was declined on affordability. Ive reviewed the underwriting file
and am satisfied that Santander fairly considered the application against its lending criteria. I
know Mrs E has said that Santander kept coming back with different (lower) figures, however
this was information provided by the broker. I do appreciate that the decision to decline the
application in November will have been disappointing, but I cannot say this was due to
Santander making an error.
Should Santander have made Mrs E aware, before February 2023, that any application
would need to be in joint names?
As mentioned earlier, the February application was outside of the relevant timeframe for
Mrs E to get a refund of the ERC. Mrs E says that Santander ought to have made it clear
earlier (in November when applying through a broker and before then during the contact
direct in Sept), that it wouldnt lend to Mrs E only with her husband living in property.
When Mrs E contacted Santander in September 2022, she and her husband were proposing
to apply for a mortgage in joint names, so the issue that was communicated in February 23
wouldnt have come up. Both that initial application in September and the broker application
in November were turned down on affordability, which is often one of the first things to be
evaluated.
Where a lender establishes that it isnt prepared to lend based on part of its lending criteria
(such as affordability), there is no requirement for it to go on to consider all other criteria.
Santander told the broker it wasnt prepared to lend the amount requested in November
2022 and it was entitled to reach this conclusion.Bearing this in mind, I cant reasonably say that Santander made an error by not telling Mrs 
E in September or November 2022, that an application in her name only wouldnt be 
accepted with her husband living in the property. In any case, the subsequent direct 
application in February 2023 was outside the ERC period, so even if it was the case that 
Santander ought to have done more in November 2022 (which I havent found to be the 
case), this didnt and wouldnt affect the situation regarding payment of the ERC. 
Notwithstanding the timing of the February 2023 direct application, Mrs E has made the point 
that it isnt that unusual for someone married to have a mortgage in their own name, with 
their spouse also living in the property. I appreciate the point Mrs E is making. That said, it 
seems Mrs E and her husband have prior joint financial history such that Santander was 
concerned this could amount to Mrs Es husband having a financial interest in the property.
Regardless, because the direct application in February 2023 was outside of the ERC period,
this did not affect Mrs E not getting a refund of the ERC.
In conclusion
I do appreciate Mrs E feels strongly that reason Santander turned down her applications for 
a new mortgage was because it was financially advantageous for it to retain the ERC. 
However, the evidence suggests that the applications in both September and November 
were legitimately declined on affordability grounds. Bearing this in mind and taking 
everything else into account, I am not currently minded to uphold this complaint.
I asked for any further evidence and/or arguments to be provided by 29 November 2023. 
Mrs E responded disagreeing with my provisional assessment. In summary, she said:
- It is unacceptable the call before the mortgage was redeemed isnt available. Without 
the call recording being available, its not possible to say what was likely, without 
proof. 
- The decision to pay the ERC and port the mortgage was based on what she had 
been told during this call. Santander would or ought to have known and advised at 
this point that a port wouldnt be possible, because of the need for the borrowing to 
be in her sole name and what it later advised (in February) about this not being 
possible. 
- If she had been told the correct information, she wouldnt have redeemed the existing 
mortgage and instead would have waited until the term had expired and no ERC was 
payable. 
- In the call of 15 September 2022, they were originally offered less than the amount 
that had just been redeemed (£68,000). This is what caused them to lose confidence 
and start to worry about the ERC. 
- It remains unfair that Santander declined the whole of the application in November 
2022. Given the situation with the ERC, the fair thing for Santander to do would have 
been to offer what it could lend and allow her to accept or decline that. Given the 
situation with the ERC and rising interest rates, there remains a conflict of interest in 
that it was to Santanders advantage to not offer any lending at that point.- It remains the case that the stance Santander took in February 2023 is not its official 
stance, as has been proven by information provided to the investigator, which shows 
that Santander would accept a sole application as long as the other party signs the 
required documentation. 
Santander didnt provide a response. 
Ive gone on to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still do not uphold this complaint. I do appreciate this will likely come as a 
disappointment to Mrs E, but I hope my explanation helps her to understand how Ive come 
to this conclusion.
I want to re-iterate my role as an Ombudsman. It isnt to address every single point thats 
been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I think 
are the key points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. But, 
having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind all of 
the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when doing that.
I consider that the same fundamental questions remain. 
Did Santander give Mrs E incorrect information in September 2022 when she enquired about 
porting her rate?
I note the concerns Mrs E has raised about the lack of a recording for the first call that took 
place on 8 September 2022. I have nothing to add to what I have already said about this in 
the PD (which forms part of this Final Decision). 
Regarding the call that took place on 15 September, Mrs E has said that she had particular 
concerns about the advice received during that call, when the amount the adviser originally 
said that Santander could lend, was less than the amount that had been outstanding and 
had just been redeemed on her previous mortgage. 
Mrs E is correct that the amount the adviser originally mentioned (around £42,000) was less 
than the amount she had just redeemed on her previous mortgage (around £68,000). I can 
understand this may have been surprising and probably somewhat disconcerting given that 
the idea was to port the previous amount and then borrow more on top. Notwithstanding that 
the adviser (after clarifying certain details around income and expenditure) increased the 
figure Santander could lend, I still find that nothing that was discussed during that call meant 
that Mrs E had no choice but to stop at that point and/or make her next application in 
November through a broker. Nor is it material to the outcome of the complaint  as I will go 
on to explain later.
I will return to the relevance of the call that took place on 8 September later on in the 
decision, but that aside I still find (in line with what I said in the PD) that the way Santander 
approached the interactions with Mrs E on 15 September 2023, didnt prejudice her position 
regarding the ERC.Did Santander handle the November application via broker, fairly?
Mrs E has said that given the circumstances surrounding the November 2022 application 
(that the ERC had already been paid), Santander shouldnt have declined the whole of the 
application and instead should have said the maximum that it was willing to lend  so that 
any loss associated with the payment of the ERC could be minimised. 
It remains relevant and significant here that the application in November 2022 was made 
through a broker. Santanders obligation was to assess the application for borrowing that 
had been made and communicate to the broker its decision. This is what it did. I appreciate 
that Mrs E thinks it ought to have done more, but I disagree. Ive also noted that Mrs E has 
emphasised her concerns that any lending decision by Santander would be influenced by 
the fact it stood to gain from declining the application, as it would retain the ERC and have 
any borrowing on a higher rate of interest. However, as set out in my PD, Im satisfied that 
Santander fairly evaluated the November 2022 application and that its decision to decline 
the application was in line with its lending criteria at the time. 
Should Santander have made Mrs E aware, before February 2023, that any application
would need to be in joint names?
Here, it is necessary to return to the call that took place on 8 September 2022. This is 
significant, because Mrs E has made the point that it is on the basis of what she understood 
from this call, that she took the decision to repay her existing mortgage and pay the ERC, as 
she would be able to port the rate and take out additional borrowing. 
Mrs E has made the point that given that an application to port would need to be on a like for 
like basis (in her sole name) and what Santander said in February 2023 when it declined her 
sole application for borrowing (that it wouldnt lend to her on a sole basis with Mr E living in 
the property, given their financial history), she could never in fact have ported the mortgage. 
I think this is right. However, I find that it doesnt make a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. Whilst it remains unhelpful that we dont have a recording of the call that took 
place on 8 September 2022, the crucial thing here is that a lender would not realistically get 
into the level of detail about the proposed borrowing, that wouldve been necessary to draw 
the conclusion that Mrs E wouldnt be able to port her previous rate. 
The call on 8 September 2022 would always be one based on high level principles. As set 
out in my PD, Santanders representative wouldnt have been in a position to guarantee to 
Mrs E at that stage, that her application to port with additional borrowing would be 
successful. The application would always be subject to Santanders lending criteria and 
underwriting.
A lender could not reasonably have been expected to know at that stage that a sole 
application wouldnt be successful because of Mrs E and her husbands prior financial 
arrangements combined with the fact that he would be living in the property. This was 
always something (alongside other things like affordability) likely to become apparent and to 
be engaged with at a later stage after an application had been made. So on balance, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Santander ought to have advised Mrs E at that early stage, that a 
rate port (plus additional borrowing) wouldnt be possible. And because of this, I dont find 
that it has caused Mrs E a loss that it needs to put right. 
Finally, I note that Mrs E has re-iterated that that the stance Santander took in February 
2023 is not its official stance, as she says has been proven by information provided to the 
investigator, which shows that Santander would accept a sole application as long as the 
other party signs the required documentation. I covered this point in my PD and have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman