DRN-3152152
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide), regarding their placing 
restrictions on her savings account, including a limit on withdrawals.
In making her complaint to this service, Mrs W was represented by a family member. 
References to Mrs W include her representative.
What happened
Mrs W had an instant access savings account with Nationwide but was subject to financial 
abuse by a friend. To protect Mrs Ws money, restrictions were placed on the account, 
including a limit of £300 per month on withdrawals (in person). Mrs W said the limit was 
affecting her ability to pay bills and meet other financial commitments, so she asked that the 
restrictions be removed.
Mrs W then provided a Letter of Consent/Authority, giving consent and authority to a family 
member to discuss her financial affairs and carry out financial transactions on the account. 
She thought this would be sufficient for Nationwide to lift the restrictions on the account.
Nationwide considered the request but said that, in Mrs Ws circumstances, they would 
require a formal Power of Attorney (POA) document. This would enable the restrictions to be 
lifted and for the person to whom the POA was granted to discuss Mrs Ws account and 
carry out financial transactions on her behalf.
 
Unhappy at this position, Mrs W complained to Nationwide. In their final response they 
maintained their position that to help manage her account, as well as to protect Mrs Ws 
account and her money, they required a POA to lift the restrictions. 
Mrs W then complained to this service about Nationwide refusing to lift the restrictions on her 
account, particularly the monthly withdrawal limit, despite her asking them to do so. She was 
also unhappy that Nationwide had insisted on her making withdrawals in person at the time 
of the Covid Pandemic. She was unhappy that they wouldnt accept the letter shed provided 
giving consent and authority for her family member to discuss her financial affairs with 
Nationwide and to make transactions on the account, She also wanted compensation for the 
stress and impact on her health that Nationwides actions had caused her and her family.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that Nationwide didnt need to take 
any action. She thought Nationwide had acted reasonably in placing restrictions on Mrs Ws 
account to protect her money, given the concerns that Mrs W might be exploited financially. 
The investigator also thought it reasonable for Nationwide to keep the restrictions in place 
until a POA had been registered. While the investigator noted that a Third Party Mandate 
and letter of authority had been recorded by Nationwide, she didnt think this was sufficient.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She thought Nationwide hadnt provided her with information on the range of 
options available (for example a Third Party Mandate). She also didnt think it fair that 
Nationwide had continued the restrictions despite her completing the forms and following 
Nationwides guidelines. She didnt think the investigator had considered (or responded to) 
the specific points raised in the complaint. She also thought that the service shed received 
was affected by her race. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered very carefully what Mrs W has told us about her circumstances, including her 
health and other vulnerabilities. I also recognise that it was very difficult for her having been 
subject to financial abuse by a friend. These have been at the forefront of my mind when 
reaching this decision and I hope what Ive said makes clear how Ive reached this decision.
 
Id also want to reassure Mrs W that Ive also considered all the specific points that shes 
raised as part of her complaint. In reaching my decision Ive focused on what I think are the 
key issues in her complaint.
There are several aspects to Mrs Ws complaint, which Ive considered in turn. First, theres 
the issue of the restrictions on the account (specifically the limit on withdrawals, in person) 
and Nationwides position that they require a POA before they can be lifted. Mrs Ws view is 
that shes provided consent and authority for a family member to discuss her financial affairs 
and make transactions on the account. 
Ive considered both views very carefully. Ive also considered the circumstances in which 
the restrictions were put in place and the history around the account and its operation. Im 
persuaded that in placing the restrictions on the account, Nationwide acted reasonably and 
in the interests of Mrs W in doing so. Im also persuaded that Nationwide acted appropriately 
given Mrs Ws circumstances as well as her vulnerabilities. While I recognise that Mrs W 
found this frustrating, I think Nationwides actions were fair. 
Ive also considered Mrs Ws point about not being provided with information on the range of 
options available and that it wasnt fair that Nationwide had continued the restrictions despite 
her completing forms. Mrs W referred to guidance from the Building Societies Association 
about the ways that a third party can handle a customers account. Ive considered this point, 
but Im not persuaded that, in requiring a POA Nationwide, acted unreasonably. A POA is a 
recognised legal authority for a third party (in this case a family member) to make financial 
decisions and transactions on behalf of someone who isnt able to. Im satisfied from the 
evidence Ive seen that it was reasonable for Nationwide to ask for a POA in Mrs Ws 
specific circumstances (and that the letter of consent/authority wasnt sufficient). 
I can see from the case notes provided by Nationwide that reference to a Third Party 
Mandate was made in one of the exchanges with Mrs W. But on further consideration 
Nationwide confirmed the position that they required a POA. While I can appreciate that this 
may have caused some confusion for Mrs W, given my conclusion about the requirement for 
a POA in Mrs Ws circumstances, this doesnt change my view that Nationwide have acted 
reasonably in making that requirement.
On the specific point about requiring withdrawals in person at the time of the Covid 
Pandemic, I can understand Mrs Ws concerns. Particularly in the circumstances of her 
health and other vulnerabilities. However, looking at the reasons for the restrictions and the 
wider circumstances of Mrs W, I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to have in place the 
restriction about withdrawals being in person, and I would have expected them to have 
followed the appropriate guidelines on how to operate safely at a time of Covid restrictions.Ive also noted that, further to their final response, Nationwide indicated to Mrs W that it may 
be possible for her to contact them by telephone and for her to make a transfer of funds (up 
to the withdrawal limit). 
 
In looking at each of these issues, Ive also considered what Mrs W has told us about how 
Nationwide have treated her. Mrs W feels that they discriminated against her because of her 
age, gender and race. But this service cant make a finding on whether an act or omission is 
discriminatory under the provisions of the Equality Act 2010, only a court can do this. 
However, as the Act is relevant to Mrs Ws complaint, Ive taken it into account when 
considering whether Nationwide acted in a fair and reasonable way.
 
Ive also considered whether her age, gender or race played a part in the way in which 
Nationwide handled her account, their decision to apply restrictions (including a limit on 
withdrawals) and their requirement for a POA to be registered to lift those restrictions. In 
considering Nationwides actions, Ive taken account of the Equality Act 2010 and thought 
about whether Nationwide acted in a fair and reasonable way. As Ive set out, Ive concluded 
that they did. 
Ive also considered whether Mrs W was treated any differently than would a customer of a 
different age, gender and race in the same circumstances. Looking at what happened, Ive 
not seen anything to indicate that they treated Mrs W any differently than they wouldve any 
other customer. Based on this, I dont think that Nationwide treated Mrs W any differently 
than they would any other customer in the same circumstances
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman