DRN-2512015
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) provided poor customer service when 
visiting one of their branches and failed to explain why he wasnt due an interest refund on 
the early settlement of his loan account. 
What happened
Mr W had a fixed rate loan with HSBC and visited the branch to ask about paying off his loan 
early. Mr W says he experienced poor service while waiting to be served in the branch with 
another customer seen ahead of him. Mr W says the member of HSBCs staff told him the 
rules had changed and he wasnt now going to get an interest reduction as he was 
previously told. Mr W says when he referred the matter to the manager, she was rude and 
unable to explain to him why he wouldnt benefit from repaying the loan early. Mr W says he 
emailed the customer care team to complain but has never received a response to this 
complaint.
In view of this, Mr W referred the matter to this service asking for a written apology from 
HSBC, financial compensation and interest on his loan backdated to the time he visited the 
branch in September 2019. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt that while HSBC should have dealt with the complaint when it was raised, this mistake 
didnt warrant a compensation payment and went on to explain how the early settlement of a 
personal loan is calculated. 
Mr W wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have in part agreed with the investigator, but I feel other parts of Mr Ws 
complaint need addressing and I will explain how I have come to my decision.
When looking at this complaint I have considered if HSBC could have done more to address 
the concerns raised by Mr W in his complaint sent by email in September 2019. In his 
complaint to HSBC  Mr W says he experienced issues when queuing in the branch and was 
told conflicting information  when trying to establish an early settlement figure for his loan 
account. Mr W says he hasnt received a response to this complaint.
I can understand Mr W would have been frustrated and upset by the fact his complaint to 
HSBC wasnt responded to. I will look at each aspect of Mr Ws complaint separately. 
What happened here was Mr W visited a branch of HSBC in September 2019 and says he 
was queuing as instructed, only to see another customer being served in front of him. I 
understand Mr W has raised similar complaints with HSBC and I believe that this may be 
why this complaint has got confused with other complaints lodged by him. That said, HSBC 
havent responded to this when they should have, although I take the view that even if Mr W 
was kept waiting in the way he describes, that in itself wouldnt warrant a compensation 
payment as its difficult to see this was a deliberate  action taken by HSBC, but more of a 
service shortfall. I think its fair to say that we all experience inconvenience from time to time 
but that doesnt mean on every occasion compensation is due and Im satisfied this is the 
case here.  
Looking at the part of the complaint regarding the information provided to Mr W by branch 
staff in relation to the early settlement of his loan, Mr W says he was originally informed he 
would not need to pay the full interest if he repaid the loan early. During his visit Mr W says 
he was told the rules had changed and this would not be the case now. Mr W says when he 
queried this with the manager, she became rude and told him the original information he was 
told regarding early settlement of his loan was incorrect and he was asked to leave the 
branch.
I have considered these points raised by Mr W, its worth saying Mr W has suggested in an 
email to this service that he didnt feel he had mentioned in his complaint to us anything 
about the loan early settlement rules being changed. I can say, even if Mr W cant recall this, 
it was mentioned in his complaint to HSBC in an email I have seen dated September 2019, 
and this is why both the investigator and I need to comment on it. I have challenged HSBC 
on this point, and they are confident as there has been no change in the rules regarding 
early settlement of customers fixed rate loans, its unlikely this would have been said to Mr 
W. I have no way of establishing what was said during the branch visit, but It does seem 
there may have been some confusion as to who said what here. That said, there is no 
evidence to support a formal request for a settlement figure for the loan was requested by Mr 
W or issued by HSBC. Without this I am unable to see how the level of interest adjustment of 
an early settlement was calculated by HSBC, although these calculations are generated 
automatically and not by the branch staff. How fixed rate loans operate and the manner in 
which early settlement of these loans are calculated was described by the investigator in his 
view to Mr W and some interest adjustment to the upfront loaded interest would have been 
due, but as the investigator suggests, not as much as perhaps Mr W was expecting.
I cant say with any certainty that even if Mr W had obtained an early settlement figure for the 
loan, he would have taken the decision to repay it. I say this in part because Mr W queried 
the interest rebate figure a week earlier and hadnt taken the decision then to repay the loan 
then. In addition, it is worth mentioning, Mr W holds an Advance Account with HSBC and 
with this style of account, the loan agreement states:
 If you hold a HSBC Advance account at the time of opening your loan and the duration of 
the loan is 60 months or less, the cost of the loan will be less as you will be entitled to a 
cashback at the end of the term. We will pay a cashback equal to 10% of the total interest 
charged over the duration of the agreement within 10 days from the date you repay the loan 
as long as you have made all your repayments on time and do not repay the loan, or part of 
it, early. We will send you a letter with the cashback amount and the account it will be paid 
into.
I can see Mr Ws loan was repaid in line with the planned repayments in August 2020 and Mr 
W received a 10% interest reward in line with the terms and conditions above. 
On balance, I am satisfied that Mr W hasnt been financially disadvantaged as he never 
formally  opted for an early settlement of his loan account, and he wouldnt have benefited 
from the cashback he has since received, if he had repaid the loan early - it follows I dont 
uphold the part of his complaint requesting the loan account interest to be adjusted.  HSBC have said they didnt receive Mr Ws complaint although this service has been 
provided with a copy of the email Mr W sent on 26 September 2019. On balance, I am 
satisfied this was sent and I see no reason why this wouldnt have been received by HSBC. 
It may be down to the fact another complaint on a separate matter was filed by Mr W only a 
couple of weeks earlier - so its possible these got confused. This is important as part of Mr 
Ws complaint to this service was that HSBC have failed to answer his complaint at all. 
So,  while I dont uphold the body of the complaint regarding the early repayment figures on 
the loan and the queueing issues Mr W faced at the branch of HSBC, for the reasons I have 
given, I do feel HSBC could have done more to answer Mr Ws complaint, once it was made 
known to them. 
As a result, HSBC should pay Mr W £100 by way of compensation for failing to deal with his 
complaint and the trouble and upset it has caused him as a result. 
While neither HSBC or Mr W will be happy with my decision, I am satisfied it is a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
I gave both Mr W and HSBC until 12 January 2021 to accept my provisional decision. Both 
Mr W and HSBC have responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have questioned whether this service can award compensation in relation to 
complaint handling. I understand why they may raise this issue, but to be clear, the award of 
compensation here is to reflect the poor service provided to Mr W. HSBC denied having 
received his complaint and didnt acknowledge subsequent requests from him about the 
service issues he had raised. So, while HSBC may not agree, the award is to reflect this and 
not the complaint handling process itself.
Mr W has accepted the award of compensation but has asked for an apology for the upset 
this has caused him from HSBC. I feel this is appropriate and no doubt if HSBC had issued a 
Final Response initially, this would have happened. It follows when issuing the award to Mr 
W they should apologise for the trouble this has caused. That said, I do not think that HSBC 
needs to provide any further explanation of why they failed to respond to his emails as this is 
a service failing and why a compensation payment has been awarded here. Mr W will 
understand that from my decision here.
Mr W has highlighted comments I have made in my provisional decision. He says my 
comment that customers stepped in front of him in the queue, wasnt the basis of his request 
for compensation but more to do with a series of service shortfalls. I understand Mr Ws 
point, but although this may not have been the sole reason for his request for a 
compensation payment, I needed to cover this off in my decision as it did form part of Mr Ws 
complaint to HSBC on 26 September 2019.  
Mr W also says my comments, in the provisional decision, suggested he was asked to leave 
the branch, but Mr W now says he did this on his own accord following interaction with other 
staff members. While Mr W may not recall this, it is mentioned in his complaint to HSBC on 
26 September 2019, so again I felt the need to cover off this issue. Either way it has little 
bearing on the decision I have made here. Following the additional points raised by both parties above, I see no need to materially 
change or add to my provisional decision, aside from HSBC simply needing to apologise for 
the upset caused to Mr W when they issue the compensation payment to him. My final 
decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to apologise to Mr W and pay him £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Mr W 
£100 for the trouble and upset caused and apologise to him for this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman