DRN-3223790
The complaint
Mr M says Lloyds Bank Plc, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on his credit 
card which went towards the purchase of some equipment.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr M used his Lloyds credit card to pay for three items of equipment from a 
seller through an auction site. The total cost was over £600 and was made up of one item 
which made up the majority of the cost and two much lower cost items which cost similar 
amounts. Soon after taking delivery of the equipment Mr M felt they were faulty. So he 
approached the auction site and it refused his complaint. It points to the contract terms and 
conditions which said there was opportunity to inspect items prior to sale but after that all 
sales were final and the purchaser, in essence, took on all risk for any problems with items 
purchased.
So Mr M complained to Lloyds to see if it could help.
Lloyds initially said Mr M was out of time for challenging the transaction through the credit 
card network. It then said this wasnt the case, but such a challenge wouldnt have been 
successful, so Mr M hadnt lost out. But it says it paid him £75 for unclear correspondence it 
had with him. 
It also considered a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 but felt that the 
required relationship between the parties as set out in the Act hadnt been made out, so it 
didnt refund Mr M. It also said there wasnt a breach of contract or a misrepresentation 
which led to Mr M losing out considering the terms of the contract and what had happened. 
So it didnt refund Mr M. So Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Lloyds had treated Mr M fairly. And Mr M remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M used his Lloyds credit card to buy this equipment. This means Lloyds has certain 
responsibilities to Mr M which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). There is no need for me to go into great detail about how 
this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr M to hold Lloyds liable 
for breaches of contract by the seller, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the 
agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail a breach of contract 
occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. 
Misrepresentation is when something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue 
leading to detriment. This is the limit of Lloyds responsibilities though-it isnt responsible for 
everything related to the seller. And this is an important distinction to appreciate.
Lloyds are also a member of a network which provides card services. And this network has 
rules (the card scheme) which include giving Lloyds a different avenue for card transactions 
to be disputed, namely through the Chargeback process.
could Lloyds challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr M 
does here, Lloyds (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the chargeback process.
Mr M doesnt dispute that he used his Lloyds credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Lloyds couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr M didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Lloyds is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The party that Mr M paid (the auction site) would then 
receive that chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the 
chargeback. If it contests, then Lloyds should consider this and then if it still feels the 
chargeback is warranted then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the 
scheme provider (not Lloyds) who will then make an independent determination on the 
matter. 
So Lloyds isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going 
through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Lloyds originally told Mr M he was out of time. But it has since said that when Mr M raised 
the dispute he was actually in time, but Lloyds feels that even if it hadnt made this mistake a 
chargeback wouldnt have been successful because of the terms of the contract that Mr M 
entered into. Ive considered this and it would seem likely to me that the auction site would 
have rejected any such chargeback request. Particularly bearing in mind how it responded to 
his complaint in the first place.
And having considered the chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited) Im 
not persuaded Mr M has lost out because Lloyds didnt raise a chargeback in this case. I say 
this because I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success considering the 
situation and particularly the chargeback rules in place here and the nature of the auction 
sites terms and conditions. 
And this is notwithstanding the issue that the auction site wasnt the supplier of the 
equipment. It was only acting as an auction site and the seller was the provider of the 
equipment.
So whether or not Lloyds should have raised a chargeback doesnt make a difference to me 
here because I dont think it would have been successful anyway, so I dont think Mr M has 
lost out here because of what Lloyds did in relation to chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits.Ive considered the more expensive item and it meets the requirements in relation to the 
financial limits set out in the CCA. However the two less expensive items dont meet the 
requirements of the financial limit parts of the CCA. So Lloyds cannot have any liability for 
the two less expensive items under Section 75 for breach of contract.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods (the Supplier) as well as with the credit 
provider (the Creditor). And this is the crux of the complaint here. Mr M says that the DCS 
relationship is in place so Lloyds can be held liable for any breach of contract by the seller.
But Lloyds has raised the issue of whether DCS can be made out here. It notes that 
although the seller provided the items to Mr M, it wasnt who he paid with his credit card or 
the party he entered into a contract with. He paid the auction site and had a contract with it 
but had no direct relationship with the seller. Mr M says he wasnt aware of this issue until 
sometime after the purchase. 
So it is clear there are four parties involved here rather than the required three. So Im not 
persuaded that the DCS relationship is in place here. So I dont think Lloyds have treated Mr 
M unfairly by deciding that the DCS relationship isnt in place in regard to the more 
expensive item Mr M bought.
And even if I was persuaded DCS was in place for the expensive item, I still dont think 
Lloyds has treated Mr M unfairly bearing in mind the contract in place and the terms offering 
viewings prior to the sale but also stating that sales were final and the purchaser takes on all 
risk for any items not working properly or being faulty.
It should also be remembered that the only reason Lloyds is potentially liable is due to this 
legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then Lloyds wouldnt have any 
potential liability at all (it would have obligations around Chargeback but that isnt nearly as 
extensive in terms of protection to the consumer). So it is key that if I am to hold Lloyds liable 
the tests required under the Act must be met including DCS. And Im satisfied it isnt made 
out here. Or that there is a breach of contract or material misrepresentation here.
Mr M says he couldnt have inspected the items because of the pandemic. The auction site 
has said it was open and inspections by other consumers took place at that time. Ive 
considered the rules for the pandemic at this time. And I see that Mr M hasnt said he tried to 
visit and was turned away. Im not persuaded this makes a difference bearing in mind what 
has happened here and the circumstances. I dont think Lloyds has treated Mr M unfairly. 
And ultimately this decision is about Lloyds and its obligations and not any other party.
Mr M says he had the relationship with the auction site and paid them and had a contract 
with it. This is the case. But it wasnt the supplier of the items he bought. So Lloyds hasnt 
done anything wrong.
So all in all having considered the matter Im not persuaded Lloyds has treated Mr M 
unfairly. Im not persuaded that the required relationship was made out. I think there are four 
parties involved in this transaction and I dont think the DCS relationship has been shown to 
be in place. And even if I thought the requirements of the Act had been met Im not persuaded there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation anyway. So I dont think 
Lloyds hasnt done anything wrong here which needs remedy. I think the £75 it says it paid 
for customer service issues is fair considering what happened.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. And not only has Mr M paid a 
significant sum of money but his options with regard to resolving the matter are less now that 
Ive decided that Lloyds hasnt treated him unfairly. So I can well appreciate his 
disappointment at what has happened. However Lloyds has treated him fairly here as it 
cannot be held responsible for what happened here as DCS has not been shown to be in 
place.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman