DRN-3194824
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold them PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Cs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. 
I say this because while BoS no longer has all of the paperwork from the time of the sale 
(unsurprising given the mortgage account ended in 2008) it has provided us with copies 
of the paperwork in use at the time and which it says Mr and Mrs C would have seen. 
And these show that it would have been clear to a consumer that they had a choice 
about PPI and they had to explicitly agree to take it out.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that Mr 
and Mrs C saw something very different when they took out their mortgage and PPI, I 
think they likely chose to take out PPI and did so without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C - so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr and Mrs C 
were both eligible for the cover and they didnt have any means to fall back on to make 
the repayments on their mortgage  so they had a need for cover. The cover would have 
paid out for up to 24 months per claim and would have played a useful part in helping to 
protect their home should the insured risks become a reality.
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Cs employment or occupation, which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. And because Mr and Mrs C took out the policy at the 
same time as the mortgage, the limitation for existing medical conditions didnt apply in 
their case. So overall I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended it.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs C as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs C would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman