DRN-3465914
The complaint
Miss M and Mr R complain that Ageas Insurance Limited declined their travel insurance 
claim. My references to Ageas include its agents.
What happened
In January 2020 Miss M and Mr R bought an Insurefor.com annual multi-trip policy. Cover 
started on 31 January 2020 and provided cover for multiple trips until 30 January 2021. They 
were due to travel to a Scandinavian country from 21 to 31 March 2020 for a special 
occasion.
On 12 March 2020 the government of the relevant country announced that visitors arriving 
from outside of the Nordic countries were required to quarantine for 14 days. On 14 March 
2020 the government of the relevant country announced the closure of the countrys borders 
to foreign nationals who didnt have residence or a work permit, to take effect on 16 March.
As a result, on 15 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but 
essential travel to the relevant country.
On 17 March 2020 the airline cancelled Miss M and Mr Rs flights. The airline refunded the 
cost of the flights. But Miss M and Mr R were unable to recover all their accommodation, 
transfers and activities costs so they claimed those costs under their travel insurance.
Ageas declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover the circumstances of the trip 
cancellation. Also the policy excluded claims due to government restrictions and Ageas said 
the claim was due to government restrictions as a result of Covid-19.
Miss M and Mr R complained to us. They said they bought the policy before Covid-19 was a 
known problem so Ageas was unfair not to accept the claim.
Our investigator said Ageas had unfairly declined the claim. As the policy specifically 
excluded claims if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice our investigator said Miss M 
and Mr R wouldnt have been covered if theyd taken their trip but under the policy terms 
they werent covered for cancelling it either. She didnt think the exclusion had been 
highlighted to Miss M and Mr R and left them in an unfair position.
Our investigator didnt think Ageas could rely on the exclusion for government restrictions as 
Miss M and Mr R cancelled the trip due to FCDO advice before prohibitive restrictions were 
introduced in the destination country or the UK on 23 March 2020. She recommended Ageas 
treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy and assess the claim 
under the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Ageas disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. Before I made a decision I asked 
Miss M and Mr R to provide evidence of when they cancelled the accommodation and/or 
activities. They provided the information and I referred to the detail in my provisional 
findings.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to not uphold the complaint. 
I said:
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain 
information about a policy in a way that is easy to understand. This includes excluded risks. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) for the policy says on page 1 under 
the heading What is not insured:
Travel against Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice.
The terms and conditions of Miss M and Mr Rs policy say under the Cancellation and 
Curtailment section at page 7:
What you are covered for:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to 
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel 
before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early during the 
period of insurance because of the following:
1.the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close 
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or 
2.you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or
3.your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending 
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4.your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding 
or fire;
5.the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at
your home; or
6.you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.Miss M and Mr Rs trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. This means their 
claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy.
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Miss M and Mr Rs insurance policy, but I dont 
think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found 
themselves in.
Ive moved on to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of 
the case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law.
The contract  the terms and conditions of the policy - between Miss M and Mr R and Ageas 
say at page 15 under the heading General exclusions applicable to all sections:
We will not pay anything directly or indirectly caused by
your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Travel Advice Unit of 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against all, or all but essential travel.
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an exclusion for 
claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer 
to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats the 
case here and Ill explain why.
This is because Miss M and Mr Rs policy also says, at page 7 under the heading  What you 
are NOT covered for in the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy:
claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
That exclusion is also in the IPID at page 1 under the heading What is not insured.
Miss M and Mr R have provided the email exchanges they had with the accommodation 
providers which started on 13 March 2020. In those emails Miss M and Mr R say theyd seen 
the restrictions from the government of the relevant county which would affect their trip and 
asked the providers to keep in touch about the implications on their trip. On 17 March 2020 
Miss M and Mr R emailed cancelling the accommodation as they could no longer travel  
given the travel restrictions introduced by the (relevant countrys) government in the last few 
days.
Our investigator thought that Ageas couldnt rely on the prohibitive regulations by the 
government of any country exclusion because they cancelled the trip due to FCDO advice 
before prohibitive restrictions were introduced in the destination country or the UK on 
23 March 2020. But the government of the relevant country had already announced and put 
in place the restrictions for travel to the country by the time Miss M and Mr R cancelled the 
trip. Its clear from their emails that those restrictions were at least one of the reasons why 
they cancelled.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Miss M and Mr Rs 
claim. I think a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and 
government restrictions both in the UK and abroad  are all likely to have impacted to some 
degree on the cancellation of the holiday.So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Miss M and Mr Rs holiday not covered 
as listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above 
would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M and Mr R but I dont think their claim is covered under the 
terms and conditions of their policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask Ageas to accept their claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ageas accepted my provisional decision. Miss M and Mr R didnt accept. In summary they 
said:
The policy wasnt clear it covered trip cancellation only for specific reasons. 
They wouldnt have bought the policy if theyd known they werent covered for 
cancellation due to FCDO advice as the policy was clear they wouldnt be covered if 
they travelled against FCDO advice. 
Theyd seen they werent covered for restrictions put in place by governments but 
thought theyd done the right thing in following FCDO advice.
Theyd paid a large amount of money for their trip and thought theyd taken sensible 
precautions to get adequate travel insurance. If Ageas could sell travel insurance 
policies that excluded a cancellation claim in their circumstances the IPID should give 
clearer information there was no cover if they cancelled due to FCDO advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss M and Mr R cancelled the holiday through no fault of their own and Ive 
considered all theyve said, but I still think Ageas acted fairly. 
Im satisfied the policy is clear that theres cover only for the six specified insured reasons 
that Ive detailed above. Cancellation due to FCDO advice isnt one of those reasons so 
I dont think Miss M and Mr R could reasonably believe the claim was covered by the policy 
terms. Ive explained in my provisional decision there are some situations where I might think 
its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. But Ive also explained why I dont think that was the situation in this case.
Miss M and Mr R say they cancelled the trip due to FCDO advice. But from the evidence of 
their emails at the time to the accommodation providers its clear the government restrictions 
of the country they were intending to travel to were at least one of the reasons why they 
cancelled. So the circumstances of their claim were specifically excluded under the 
cancellation section, and that exclusion was highlighted in the IPID.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings Im satisfied that 
Ageas fairly and reasonably declined the claim so I dont uphold this complaint. 
Miss M and Mr R have mentioned they wouldnt have bought the policy if they had clearer 
information. If they wish to make a separate complaint about the sale of the policy they can 
do so. From the information in the policy another business is responsible for the sale of the 
policy. Miss M and Mr R would first need to complain to the business that sold the policy and 
if agreement couldnt be reached they could then make a separate complaint to us.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman