DRN-1813314
The complaint
Miss M complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have turned down her 
claim under her pet insurance policy unfairly.
What happened
On 2 May 2019 Miss Ms horse had an operation, and she says she submitted a claim form 
to her vets, to then send on to Red Sands, on 25 May 2019. Then, on 2 September 2019 
Miss M got in touch with Red Sands to find out how her claim was progressing, as she said 
usually theyre pretty good but shed not heard anything. When she called, she was told no 
claim had been submitted. She says she realised at this point the claim form shed sent in 
May 2019 hadnt been received by her vets. She says Red Sands told her to submit her 
claim as soon as possible, and theyd make a note to say her vet had never received her 
form. 
When Red Sands received her claim form, they paid some of it, but turned down a large 
proportion of the claim as itd been made outside of the 90-day claim period. Red Sands said 
theyd reminded her on 15 June 2018 not to submit claims outside the 90 days. Red Sands 
also turned down portions of Miss Ms claim for a gel which they said were for behavioural 
problems and not covered under the policy terms, and for vets fees they said were 
excessive.
Miss M complained, explaining shed been told theyd consider her claim when she called 
up. Red Sands replied and said the policy does have the 90-day time limit for making claims, 
and that shed been reminded of this is June 2018. Red Sands added that the claims form 
they received, after Miss Ms call on 2 September to ask if theyd received the one she sent 
in May, had been signed on 30 August 2019  several days before this call. And they said 
theres an entry on the vets notes dated 5 August 2019 to say Miss M will send the 
insurance form. Red Sands said they couldnt see any notes before this August 2019 entry 
to say Miss M was going to send the form, so for all these reasons didnt pay the remainder 
of her claim.
Unhappy with this, Miss M asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so and 
felt the 90-day time limit had no impact on assessing Miss Ms claim, so thought Red Sands 
should pay this  and felt they should also pay for the gel and other vets fees as well.
Red Sands didnt agree. They said in order to correctly calculate premiums for future years, 
any claims activity is taken into account. Its for this reason they ask for the 90-day time limit 
to be adhered to, so they can correctly calculate premiums. And because the claim wasnt 
made until after the policy premium had been calculated for 3 September 2019, theyve been 
disadvantaged. So, its for this reason they think the 90-day limit has been correctly applied.
In light of the additional information from Red Sands, our investigator still thought the 
complaint should be upheld, and the full claim met  but Red Sands would be allowed to 
recalculate the premium factoring in this claim and deduct that from the amount paid to 
Miss M. Red Sands didnt accept this though, saying Miss M no longer holds a policy with 
them, so they wouldnt be able to get the money back. Because of this, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its worth explaining that my remit is to consider complaints on a fair and reasonable 
basis, taking into account all relevant factors. Here, Red Sands have turned down Miss Ms 
claim because she made it outside of the 90-day time limit  and theyve explained this has 
had an impact on Miss Ms future premiums which is why they dont agree.
I do accept some of Red Sands arguments here  in that they didnt receive the claim form 
within 90 days as they set out in their terms. Miss M says this is due to an error as she did 
send the form within the time limit to her vets.
But, on the facts of this case, Im satisfied Red Sands position hasnt been affected by the 
delay. All the information needed to fairly decide the outcome of the claim was provided to 
Red Sands in September 2019. There was no ongoing treatment at this point that might 
have made things harder to determine  and for the primary claim theres no suggestion it 
wouldnt have been covered if it was made within the 90-day time limit.
As Red Sands position hasnt been affected, I think its appropriate for them to meet this 
portion of the claim.
When Red Sands wrote with their initial outcome on the claim, they said they wouldnt pay 
£28.46 for gel that had been used because this was for behavioural issues. But, the vets 
notes say it was part of the horses recovery process, which isnt excluded. So Im satisfied 
they should meet this portion of the claim.
Red Sands also said they wouldnt pay £14 worth of vets fees because theyd only pay up to 
£100 for the combination of a vets visit and examination fees  and they referred Miss M to 
the Veterinary Fees section of her policy. Ive read this, and it doesnt say theyll only pay 
up to £100 for these fees. I also note our investigator came to the same conclusion in his 
outcome, which Red Sands didnt reply to. So, Im satisfied Red Sands should also meet this 
portion of the claim.
But, I do accept Red Sands would most likely have taken the level of this claim into account 
when calculating premiums for September 2019 onwards. So, Im satisfied its appropriate 
for them to calculate how much they would have charged in additional premiums and deduct 
that from the figure above.To this remaining figure, Red Sands need to add 8% interest from the date they received 
Miss Ms claim form, to the date of settlement. This is because Miss M has had to pay the 
claim herself, which Im satisfied should have been covered under her insurance policy.
Putting things right
Red Sands need to:
1. Calculate the amount of the claim they didnt meet
2. Deduct premiums as appropriate from point 1) above
3. Pay 8% interest on the figure calculated in point 2) above from the date Miss Ms 
claim form was received, to the date of settlement*
4. Provide Miss M with a breakdown of this calculation
*HM Revenue and Customers requires Red Sands to deduct tax from the interest payment
referred to above. Red Sands must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax theyve
deducted if she asks them for one.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman