DRN-3279032
The complaint
Mrs K complains that a car she took on hire purchase from Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
(SMF) was not of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In March 2021 Mrs K entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with SMF for s used 
car. The car was a little over five years and had covered some 73,000 miles. Its cash price 
was £14,250, and under the agreement Mrs K was to make monthly payments of £364.18. 
In August 2021 Mrs K reported that the car was unusually noisy when driven at speed. She 
said that she had taken the car for an inspection and been told it was unsafe to drive. The 
dealership agreed to look at the car and, having done so, replaced a suspension component 
at no cost to Mrs K.
This did not fully resolve the issue, however, and Mrs K told SMF that she wanted to reject 
the car. SMF asked Mrs K to obtain a diagnostic report, which she did. That report 
suggested that the tyres be replaced, although it did not identify the source of the noise. 
SMF therefore arranged a further inspection and report. That inspection included a road test, 
which confirmed that the noise could be heard at speeds above about 60mph. The inspector 
thought however that it was unlikely to be linked to the cars suspension but that it might be 
caused by a wheel bearing or part of the cars anti-lock braking system. Either way, the 
report said, it was a matter of wear and tear  that is, it was something that might be 
expected in a car of this age and mileage. The report also concluded that the car was safe to 
drive. 
Relying on the results of the independent inspection, SMF concluded that Mrs K had no 
grounds to reject the car. Together with the dealership, it did however offer to accept its 
return (with nothing more to pay on either side) or to contribute towards the cost of repairs. 
Mrs K decided to return the car to the dealership. She thought however that the five monthly 
payments she had made by that point should be returned. SMF did not agree. 
Mrs K referred the case to this service. Our investigator did not recommend that SMF do any 
more to resolve her complaint. She thought that the independent inspection had shown that 
the car had been of satisfactory quality at the point of delivery. The offer to take back the car 
had therefore been reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mrs K did not accept the investigators preliminary conclusions and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.             
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase contract was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances  including its age, price and mileage. In this case the car was more than five 
years with a high mileage for its age. It was therefore to be expected that it might need some 
work over the hire purchase period and that it might even develop significant faults. 
Mrs K says that she was told that the car was unsafe to drive. A further report was unable to 
identify the source of the noise. The most detailed inspection and report concluded however 
that the noise was not unusual for a car of similar age and mileage; it was consistent with 
general wear and tear and did not therefore mean that the car was not of satisfactory quality. 
In my view, that was the most reliable evidence.
I therefore agree with the investigators conclusion that the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mrs K. 
Even if I were to take a different view on that point, however, I think that the dealership and 
SMF between them have done enough to resolve Mrs Ks complaint. She was able to return 
the car at no additional cost. She had the use of it for several months  covering around 
4,000 miles in that time. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
to do anything more to resolve Mrs Ks complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman