DRN-3812474
The complaint
Miss C complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has offered to 
settle her claim on her home insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss C had a home insurance policy through her bank that was underwritten by RSA. It 
included cover for contents. In August 2022 she made a claim after she lost her engagement 
ring, wedding band and eternity rings following an infection that led to her having to have 
them cut off. 
RSA accepted the claim and arranged an appointment for its contractor to visit Miss C to 
arrange a similar replacement. However due to some ongoing health problems, Miss C 
cancelled the appointment and asked if she could instead have a cash settlement. RSA 
agreed, however it explained that any cash settlement would be paid at the cost to it of 
replacing the rings which would be much lower than market value due to agreed discounts 
with its suppliers. It originally offered a cash settlement of just under £2,000. However Miss 
C asked it to revalue the rings and it increased this to around £2,800 based on a higher 
valuation.
Miss C remained unhappy with this. She said she wouldnt be able to replace the rings for 
anywhere near that amount and didnt feel comfortable having RSAs contractor in her house 
due to her health conditions. So she didnt think it was fair that these were the only options 
given to her. RSA offered vouchers at the full value of the rings, but she said she couldnt 
find any comparable options at the relevant stores. She made a complaint.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint as it said the settlement offered was in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Unhappy with this Miss C brought her complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said RSA had acted fairly 
and inline with the policy terms. And as it had also offered to provide vouchers, he thought it 
had done enough to fairly settle the claim.
Miss C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C isnt happy with the options RSA has provided when settling her claim. I need to 
decide if it has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the policy terms and conditions 
when offering the settlement. 
In relation to contents claims, Miss Cs policy states as follows:
If the damage cant be economically repaired and the damaged or lost item can be replaced, 
well replace it. And if a replacement isnt available, well replace it with an item of similar 
quality
You can request a cash settlement where were able to offer repair or replacement. If we 
agree to this, the amount well pay wont normally be more than what we wouldve paid our 
nominated repairers or product suppliers.
So the policy will usually provide a replacement or repair in the first instance. Here, I can see 
that RSA did offer to replace the ring. And was confident it would be able to do so by 
providing a specialist to go to Miss Cs house and talk through the specifications and 
requirements.  
This visit didnt go ahead due to Miss Cs concerns around her health, which is completely 
understandable. However as RSA were able to replace the ring, the policy states that a cash 
settlement will only be at the amount it would have cost RSA. As this is what RSA has 
offered, it has acted in line with its policy terms and conditions.
However I note that the reason that Miss C didnt want the contractor to visit her property 
was because of her health, so I can understand why she didnt choose this option. And Ive 
considered whether RSA has offered a fair alternative in the circumstances. It has also 
offered the option of a voucher to the full value of over £5,000 to use at a number of large 
high street shops. This means Miss C would be able to purchase rings at the full value 
without the need to have a home visit. And I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
Further, its of note that RSA has said to this service it would arrange a meeting over a video 
call or phone calls to try and arrange a replacement that way rather than a home visit, but 
warned it may take longer to resolve. If Miss C would prefer to arrange a replacement this 
way then she should contact RSA directly to proceed with this option.
Based on the options provided by RSA, and the policy terms and conditions, I think its acted 
fairly with the claim settlement its offered. It has fulfilled its obligation under the policy and 
has offered a range of options based on Miss Cs difficult circumstances. I therefore wont 
ask it to do anything further. 
I note Miss C has also commented about a call she had with RSAs contractor where she felt 
he was abrupt and rude. I was really sorry to read this. And while I have no reason to doubt 
Miss Cs account, Ive been unable to listen to the call in question. However from the call I 
have listened to, and the other correspondence provided, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that RSA has provided a poor service. So it wouldnt be fair for me to ask RSA to do 
anything in this regard. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman