DRN-2426938
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) decision to close his account 
without giving him a reason. Mr A would like compensation for the distress this situation 
caused him.
What happened
Mr A opened an account with RBS. In March 2020 RBS carried out a review of Mr As 
account and decided to close it immediately. RBS didnt give Mr A a reason for their decision 
but did refer him to the Terms and Conditions of the account.
Mr A was unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. Mr A said the situation caused 
him distress and hed like to know why RBS made the decision they did. Mr A explained the 
account had been open for a couple of weeks so hes unsure what went wrong.
The investigator who reviewed Mr As complaint didnt think RBS did anything wrong. She 
explained that RBS were entitled to take the action they did and didnt need to give Mr A a 
reason. Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review things, so the complaint has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding the complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr A so Ive explained the reasons for my decision below.
RBS are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing 
relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or 
partially while they carry out their review. 
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied RBS was complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they reviewed Mr As account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done 
anything wrong. I appreciate RBS didnt tell Mr R about the review  but theyre not obliged 
to. 
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr A decided to stop banking with RBS, he wouldnt have to explain why. RBS can only 
close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the 
account. RBS have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr As account. And Im 
pleased to see they pointed Mr A to the specific term they relied on when doing so.
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. RBS exercised 
their right to no longer offer Mr A banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that RBS 
has made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently.
I thought about what Mr A has said about his account being open for around two weeks. But 
that doesnt mean RBS werent entitled to close it. I appreciate it may have been 
inconvenient for Mr A to open an account, for it to only be closed shortly afterwards  and I 
recognise he says this caused him distress. I can only fairly uphold Mr As complaint if I think 
RBS did something wrong  and based on the information and evidence Ive seen, I dont 
think they did.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr A feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it was 
a difficult time. So, I realise Mr A will be disappointed by my decision. But overall, based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I cant say RBS have acted unreasonably - so, Im not going to ask 
them to do anything
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman