DRN-3379931
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) did not extend the expiry date on 
cinema vouchers that Mr B received during the pandemic, which were provided as a benefit 
of having a Club Lloyds package on his account.
What happened
In its final response letter, Lloyds said that the cinema voucher provider was not able to 
confirm if it will be extending the expiry dates on vouchers that were due to expire in 
November 2020. So Lloyds agreed to pay Mr B £30 as a gesture of good will, to cover the 
cost of the cinema tickets.
Unhappy with Lloydss offer, Mr B contacted our service to look into his complaint.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she thought that Lloyds didnt need to 
do anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mr B disagreed and asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we deal with complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has been 
provided by Mr B and Lloyds, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr B had taken out a Club Lloyds account and had selected to receive cinema vouchers as 
one of the benefits of the account. Lloyds has explained that Club Lloyds account holders 
receive 6 cinema vouchers each year, and the vouchers come with a 1-year expiry date. 
Unfortunately, due to the pandemic and cinemas being shut, Mr B was unable to make use 
of some cinema vouchers that had been issued to him. 
I understand that Mr B contacted Lloyds to see if the expiry date could be extended or new 
tickets issued and he was told that the cinema vouchers would only be extended for a short 
time (I understand around 2 to 3 months). However, Mr B says that this is unfair and 
discriminatory because his circumstances mean he is only able to attend certain viewings at 
the cinema.
I think it might help to explain that when looking into complaints, if our service thinks that a 
financial business has acted unreasonably or unfairly, and this caused the consumer to 
suffer some sort of loss, then we would generally look to ask the financial business to put 
matters right by putting the consumer back in the position they wouldve been in had the 
wrongdoing not occurred.
In this case, I dont think that Lloyds was necessarily being unreasonable because the expiry 
date on the cinema vouchers was extended by only a few months. I say this because, firstly 
the decision about how long the cinema vouchers would be extended by was made by the 
product provider, not Lloyds. 
Secondly, even if I did hold Lloyds responsible for the decision of the product provider, Mr B 
was not tied into keeping the Club Lloyds package on his account. So if he felt he wasnt 
getting much benefit from the package as a whole e.g. he wasnt able to use the cinema 
vouchers due to the cinemas being shut, he was free to cancel it at any time. After all, Mr B 
couldve cancelled the Club Lloyds package and then added it back on to his account at a 
later date, once he felt he was better able to make use of the package of benefits. 
Furthermore, even if I were to conclude that the decision to not extend the expiry date by 
more than two to three months was unreasonable and that this is something that Lloyds 
should be held responsible for, Mr B met the fee-waiver criteria to have the Club Lloyds 
package. This means that he was able to have it (and therefore the cinema vouchers) for 
free. As such, even if I thought that Lloyds was being unreasonable in not extending the 
expiry date or not providing Mr B with more vouchers, I cant see that Mr B had suffered a 
financial loss as a result of him being unable to use the cinema vouchers.
In addition to the above, I note that in Lloyds response to the complaint, it agreed to pay Mr 
B £30. Mr B says this award was only for poor service. But the final response letter clearly 
says that this amount was awarded so that Mr B could buy cinema tickets himself. In my 
view this is reasonable, because it is essentially the same as if Lloyds had issued Mr B with 
new cinema vouchers, but with no expiry date on them. Therefore, I dont accept the 
argument that Lloyds was somehow being discriminatory towards Mr B, because Lloyds 
offer meant that Mr B was given the freedom to buy cinema tickets for a time and screening 
that suited him.  
Finally, I can see that Mr B has asked that his costs in bringing this complaint be reimbursed 
by Lloyds. However, we do not usually award a consumers costs in bringing a complaint to 
this service. And in this case, as I dont think that Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr B, I dont think it would be appropriate to ask Lloyds to reimburse Mr Bs costs in 
bringing the complaint. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman