DRN-4514515
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt fairly settled his 
claim. 
What happened
Mr C missed his connection and made a claim on his travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
Great Lakes. When he did reach his destination, he required medical attention and 
submitted a medical expenses claim too. He was unhappy that Great Lakes only paid £500 
for his missed connection claim and that £100 excess was applied to his medical expenses 
claim.
Mr C complained to Great Lakes as he wanted his costs and claim paid in full. Great Lakes 
maintained that the claim had been settled correctly but apologised and offered Mr C £50 
compensation for its service failings and delays. Unhappy with the response, Mr C referred 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Great Lakes had done anything 
wrong as it had paid the claims correctly, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms confirm: We will pay up to £500 for costs incurred should you be 
delayed or miss your connection. The terms confirm Mr C cannot claim for both 
travel delay and missed connection. 
Mr C said the excess deducted from his medical expenses claim was incorrect and 
he wanted all his costs and expenses in relation to his missed connection paid, which 
were in excess of the £500 settlement he received.
Insurance policies are designed to cover specific losses up to certain limits rather 
than pay the full costs and expenses incurred when making a claim. Great Lakes has 
correctly paid the claim, in line with the policy limits and terms and conditions which 
is £500 maximum in Mr Cs circumstances. The table of benefits shows a £100 
excess will be applied to emergency medical expenses. And so I am satisfied Great 
Lakes has deducted the correct excess amount as set out in the policy. 
The terms and conditions of the policy make up the contract of insurance between Mr 
C and Great Lakes. So I cant fairly ask Great Lakes to step outside the terms and 
pay anything further as I dont think it has incorrectly or unfairly settled the claim.
Great Lakes did offer Mr C compensation for its delay and service failings. For the 
sake of completeness, I think this amount is reasonable as Great Lakes also 
apologised and I dont think the delay was long lasting or had any long-lasting 
impact. If the £50 compensation offered by Great Lakes hasnt yet been paid, Mr C 
should contact Great Lakes directly about this, if he now wishes to accept the 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman