DRN-3568614
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Phoenix Life Limited in 1998 
regarding his future pension contributions.
What happened
The advice that Mr M received, and which forms the subject of this complaint, was provided 
by a representative of Abbey Life. But that firm is now the responsibility of Phoenix, so it is 
Phoenix that needs to deal with Mr Ms complaint. For ease, in this decision, I will simply 
refer to the advising business as Phoenix.
Mr M was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). He met with a tied advisor 
from Phoenix to discuss his future pension contributions. Phoenix advised Mr M to start 
making free standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) to a new pension plan. 
Mr M accepted that advice, and agreed to pay a net contribution of £67.03 per month.
Around 12 months later, Mr M informed Phoenix that he was no longer subject to UK income 
tax. So he stopped his contributions at that time. Since then his FSAVC savings have 
remained invested in Phoenixs Managed Fund. But Mr M complains that the effect of the 
charges levied on his pension savings, both at the outset and annually, mean that they are 
now worth less than half of the contributions he has made. He says that charges at that level 
mean that it would be impossible for that plan to provide a meaningful return to any investor.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that Phoenix 
had provided Mr M with all the necessary information about his contribution options when it 
gave him the advice. And she thought the charges that Mr M would need to pay on his 
pension savings had been clearly set out in the documentation he was given at the time. So 
she didnt think that Phoenix had done anything wrong, or that the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In her assessment our investigator explained why she thought Phoenixs recommendation 
for Mr M make FSAVC contributions, rather than making additional voluntary contributions 
(AVCs) to his OPS, wasnt unreasonable. In response Mr M has explained that his complaint 
doesnt relate to that aspect of Phoenixs advice.
But, Mr Ms complaint does relate to the charges that he has needed to pay on his FSAVC 
plan. And, as I will now go on to explain, the costs of a FSAVC plan are a very important 
factor in regard to the advice that he was given. So I do think that I should briefly consider 
that aspect of the advice here.
The advice was provided by Phoenix in 1998. So the relevant regulatory guidance was 
contained in the May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which was produced by the 
Personal Investment Authority, one of the predecessors of the current regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority. RU20 gave guidance on the procedures for advising clients on 
the relative merits of FSAVCs and AVCs provided by occupational pension schemes. The 
guidance set out different requirements depending on whether the adviser was an 
independent financial adviser or a tied adviser  one who is employed by, or contracted to, 
one organisation and can only recommend and sell that organisations products. In this case 
the adviser was tied.
For tied advisers, RU 20 indicated that before selling an FSAVC tied advisers should:
draw the clients attention to the in-house alternative;
discuss the generic differences between the two routes (taking account, among other 
things, of the features described in this article); and
direct the client to his employer, or to the OPS, for more information on the in-house 
option.
Among the features referred to in the article were that charges under in-house AVCs would 
usually be lower. In particular the article said;
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, 
reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration 
expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely 
to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the 
client
 
The regulator indicated that it would expect the advice file to have documentary evidence 
demonstrating that the procedures in the update had been followed.
So Phoenix needed to make Mr M aware of the in-house AVC and to discuss the generic 
features of the in-house options and of the FSAVC. The key difference I wouldve expected 
Phoenix to discuss with Mr M would be the likelihood of lower charges for the in-house AVC. 
I would also expect Mr M to have been directed to his employer and/or occupational pension 
scheme trustee to obtain more information on his in-house optionsThe meeting in which the advice was given to Mr M took place almost 25 years ago. Over 
such a lengthy period of time, I am conscious that even the most careful of memories can, 
and do, fade. So whilst I have no doubts that Mr M has given us his entire, and honest, 
recollections I must reasonably be guided here on the information that was given to Mr M at 
the time, in the form of written scheme documentation.
Phoenix says Mr M would have been provided with a document that explained the 
differences between the AVC and FSAVC plans. And from the copy of that document I have 
reviewed, I am satisfied that Mr M would have been made sufficiently aware that the costs of 
the AVC option would most likely be lower. And, in the recommendation report that was 
given to Mr M after the meeting, a further reference to the alternative schemes was provided.
So on balance, and noting that Mr M says he isnt complaining about this specific matter, 
I think Phoenix met its regulatory responsibilities in terms of signposting the different ways in 
which Mr M could make his additional pension contributions. 
But what this complaint actually relates to is the information that Mr M was given about the 
FSAVC plan when he was advised to take it out. He says that the charges inherent in that 
plan mean that it would have been unlikely, even from the start, that it would provide a 
meaningful return on his pension contributions.
I think the first thing to consider here is that generally a pension plan is expected to be a 
long-term investment. Mr M was aged 29 when he was given the advice by Phoenix. So the 
expectation, at that time, would be that Mr M might make FSAVC payments for more than 
30 years  the plan was set with an expected retirement date of when Mr M reached 
60 years of age. So, the investment returns that were based on those assumptions would 
have been undermined just a year later when Mr M stopped making his FSAVC payments.
The documentation that was given to Mr M at the time set out in some detail the charges that 
he would need to pay on his pension contributions and the pension savings they generated. 
Those charges were made up of a number of components. An initial charge of 5% was made 
when contributions were first made. And an annual fund management charge of 0.75% 
would be levied on the value of any pension investments. But that charge could also be 
varied depending on how long contributions had been made to the plan. Other charges 
would also apply that were set at an initial monthly or annual fixed amount. Although the 
terms noted that those charges could be increased each year, usually in line with the rate of 
inflation.
So Mr Ms decision to stop his contributions just a year later had a number of adverse effects 
on the charges that he paid. By only paying contributions for a short period of time the rate of 
the annual fund management charge would be higher. And since his total pension savings 
were lower, the fixed annual charges would represent a much higher proportion of his 
pension savings.
But, I think the charges that Mr M needed to pay were clearly set out in the documentation 
he was given. And, had he continued to make his FSAVC payments as was envisaged when 
he received the advice, I dont think those charges would have meant that his pension 
savings wouldnt have grown. Ive noted that just a few months after he received the advice 
the regulator updated its rules to require firms to provide illustrations based on annual 
growth rates of between 8.5% and 13%. Whilst hindsight suggests those rates havent been 
achieved, I dont think that sort of expectation of investment returns would have been 
unreasonable at the time of the advice.
So on balance I dont think that the advice Phoenix gave to Mr M in 1998 was unreasonable. 
It met its responsibilities both in terms of providing him with guidance about the differences between an AVC and a FSAVC arrangement. And I think the information it provided to him 
clearly set out the charges that he would need to pay on the FSAVC plan. Im not persuaded 
that those charges were such that they fundamentally made the FSAVC arrangement 
inappropriate for what it knew of Mr Ms circumstances, or unsuitable for any consumer as 
Mr M suggests.
As I have explained, Mr M stopped making his pension contributions just a year after taking 
the FSAVC plan. It seems that it would have been a reasonable conclusion at that time that 
the value of those savings would have been steadily eroded by future charges, or at the very 
least any growth would have been inhibited. So I can understand Mr Ms disappointment 
that, at that time, he didnt move his pension savings to an alternative investment, or request 
a refund of the contributions he had made
But the advice that Phoenix provided to Mr M in 1998 didnt include any agreement to 
provide him with on-going support or advice about his pension savings. So, when Mr Ms 
circumstances changed in 1999 and he no longer was liable for UK income tax and so 
ceased his FSAVC payments, it was for Mr M himself to determine how to proceed. It wasnt 
reasonable to expect Phoenix, without any formal engagement, to provide unsolicited advice 
to Mr M about his future pension arrangements.
I understand how disappointing my decision will be for Mr M. Pension savings that he made 
a number of years ago have been eroded by the charges that he has needed to pay. But 
I think those charges were clearly set out when he was initially sold the FSAVC plan. And 
I dont think the structure of those charges, at that time, made the FSAVC plan, or the advice 
that was provided, unsuitable for Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman