DRN-2158988
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Skoda Financial
Services.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2020. I explained that unless I 
received additional information that led me to change my mind, I was not expecting to uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below.
Mrs C took receipt of a new car in April 2019. She financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. 
She complained that the brakes were squeaking and there was a lot of black dust which she 
thought was probably brake dust. The dealership exchanged the front brake pads for a softer 
type, but the dust was even worse, so the original type of brake pads were fitted in June 
2019. 
The dealership didnt think anything was wrong with either the initial or the replacement 
brake pads.
But Mrs C disagreed. She stopped driving the car and arranged an independent assessment 
in October 2019. The inspector found:
the brakes were in good serviceable condition and that a brake test showed them to 
be performing well within MOT parameters.
the front brake pads were only about 10% worn.
there was an occasional very minor squeak from the brakes when at low speed.
the brake dust contamination was not excessive.
Our investigator didnt think a new car should squeak and she was persuaded this car did 
from the inspection report and when viewing a video Mrs C had provided. She thought 
VWFS should allow Mrs C to reject the car.
But VWFS disagreed and they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mrs C so 
please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs C acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mrs C. The car 
here was brand new so I would not expect any faults with it.
But here Im not persuaded Ive been provided with enough evidence to suggest there are 
faults with this car. I say that because the independent inspector, who is an expert in these 
matters, has not been able to find fault with the vehicle. It is his opinion that the squeaking is 
very minor and having watched the video Im not persuaded otherwise. The independent 
inspector thinks the car is in good serviceable condition and has advised that the brakes 
are working well. He doesnt think the brake dust contamination is excessive and Im 
therefore persuaded, by his expert opinion, thats most likely the case.
So, in the absence of evidence that there is a fault with this car I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask VWFS to take any further action.
My provisional decision
Im not currently expecting to uphold this complaint.
VWFS didnt provide any further information but Mrs C did. She provided a copy of the 
original letter she had sent to VWFS in July 2019 and she said I hadnt considered her right 
under the Consumer Rights Act (2015) to reject the car as it had a fault reported within the 
first six months. She explained that the dealership had accepted there was a fault but had 
been unable to fix it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been persuaded by Mrs Cs additional comments. The relevant legislation does 
suggest that a business should allow a consumer to reject the goods if a fault has been 
identified that was present when the goods were supplied and if a repair of that fault has 
been unsuccessful.
But here, I am not persuaded that a fault has been identified. I understand that the 
dealership attempted to improve matters for Mrs C but its clear neither they nor VWFS 
accept there is a fault. The expert in these matters, the independent assessor, has said 
there isnt a fault and the squeaking is very minor. So, in the absence of evidence that there is a fault with this car I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask VWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman