DRN-2951077
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd turned down a claim she made on her mobile 
phone insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs K took out mobile phone insurance with Bastion. She says as part of 
her application she uploaded the required photographs of her device. She made a claim on 
her policy for repairs to her phone in April 2021 but this was turned down. Thats because 
Bastion said it had never received the validation information (which was a requirement of her 
policy). 
Subsequently Bastion said it would apply wording which applied to more recent policies and 
applied a £75 indemnity limit where a device hadnt been validated. As Mrs Ks policy had an 
excess of £50 it said it would pay her £25.  
Our investigator didnt agree that was the right way to resolve the complaint. He wasnt 
persuaded Mrs K had provided the required photographs. So the validation terms of the 
policy hadnt been met and Bastion were entitled to turn down the claim. However, under the 
terms of the policy she took out that meant a valid claim could never have been made. So he 
thought it fair Bastion should refund the premiums she paid for the policy (as it was never at 
risk of a successful claim being made). 
Bastion didnt agree. It said validation should have taken place and didnt. But cover had 
nevertheless been provided (in line with the terms of the policies it now offers). It didnt 
accept the premiums Mrs K paid should be refunded. 
Mrs K said shed paid for the policy since February 2020 and had never been informed there 
was any issue over whether shed validated her device. She queried why, if Bastion didnt 
have the required information, it kept taking the premiums from her. So I need to reach a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Bastion has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive thought first about the terms of Mrs Ks policy. I understand these say within seven days 
of cover starting the policyholder must provide a number of things. That includes 
photographic evidence that Your Gadget(s) are in a good and operational state. 
Mrs K says she did provide the validation information (in particular the photographs) but Im 
not satisfied she did. Bastion has provided screen shots of its validation mailbox filtered by 
Mrs Ks correct email address which dont show receipt of any information from her. It also 
says if she had validated its system would have sent a confirmation to the email address she 
entered as part of that process. She hasnt been able to provide a copy of that email. 
And while Bastion do appear to have had an incorrect email address for Mrs K on file (which 
was why she didnt receive any reminders about validation) that does appear to be because 
she entered this incorrectly when first taking out the policy. So that hasnt happened 
because of something Bastion got wrong. 
Given that I dont think Bastion acted unreasonably in turning down the claim Mrs K 
subsequently made. Without the relevant photographs Bastion doesnt have evidence to 
show the state of the phone at the point the policy was taken out. That means its not been 
able to establish what the condition of the phone was prior to the claim being made.
But, while I think Bastion was entitled to turn down the claim Mrs K made, I understand she 
never had a device registered on this policy. And, under the terms of this policy, until she did 
she could never have made a successful claim. Weve previously said in those 
circumstances Bastion should refund the premiums paid for the policy because a consumer 
is effectively paying for cover that would never be of benefit to them  meaning theres no 
risk to Bastion. 
In this case instead of doing that Bastion has applied the terms of the policies it currently 
provides which offer a limited indemnity where a policyholder doesnt provide the validation 
information. However, those terms arent the ones that applied to the policy Mrs K actually 
took out. And while in some circumstances it could nevertheless be fair to apply different 
terms it doesnt seem to me its appropriate to do so in this case. 
Thats because applying the new terms means Mrs K would receive less than if she was 
refunded the amount shed paid for the policy from the outset. I appreciate Bastion has gone 
beyond what the terms of her policy say in making that offer. But I dont think its fair to leave 
her in a worse position than she would be if our normal approach was applied in relation to 
the terms of the policy she actually took out. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd will need to refund 
the premiums Mrs K paid for this policy from February 2020 less the £25 its already paid 
her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman