DRN-3185815
The complaint
Mr R complaint concerns the way in which HSBC UK Bank Plc handled a fraud claim he 
made after falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The facts of this case are well-known to both parties and parts of the matter have already 
been resolved by this point, so I dont intend to detail everything here. Instead, Ive focused 
on whats left to decide.
In summary, Mr Rs account was subject to unauthorised access which resulted in stocks he 
held with HSBC being sold. The perpetrators then tried to steal the proceeds by sending 
unauthorised payments out of Mr Rs account. Ultimately, Mr R was returned to the position 
he was in before this took place, with his investments reinstated at no cost to him. 
Whats left to determine is the manner in which the bank handled things. Mr R says he was 
treated unreasonably, including having to spend unnecessary time dealing with the situation 
and being accused of unwittingly revealing his security credentials to the scammer(s). In an 
effort to resolve his concerns, HSBC paid Mr R £150 compensation. 
Mr R finds this insufficient. An investigator at our service explained why he felt HSBC need 
not do anymore  but Mr R disagrees with this assessment. So, the case has been 
escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that HSBC has put forward a reasonable resolution. Consequently, 
Im not requiring it to do anything further. I say so for the following reasons:
 Im satisfied HSBC has duly returned Mr R to the financial position he was in before 
the unauthorised access took place. Along with correctly returning his investments to 
the state they wouldve been in before they were sold without his permission. 
 On the evidence, I am not persuaded the misuse of Mr Rs account was due to a 
failing by HSBC. Its also under no obligation to exactly prove or disprove how the 
unauthorised admittance to Mr Rs assets happened.   
 I appreciate Mr Rs frustration if it was indicated that he unknowingly divulged his 
security information to the scammers. However, I dont see it was HSBCs intention 
to offend him. Rather, I believe it was simply carrying out its duty to investigate how 
the illicit activity took place; ensuring the safety of the account, together with the 
liability of the transactions is an expectation of HSBC under the various regulations 
and principles of good practice. 
 Finally, everything suggests HSBC has been cooperative with Mr Rs requests. 
Overall, I find that the £150 already put forward to be reasonable to make right any 
minor maladministration or slight failures by the bank. I therefore cannot safely 
conclude Mr R should be awarded anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint, because the compensation award 
already given by HSBC UK Bank Plc is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman