DRN-3498711
The complaint
Mr F complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) increased the premium 
on his cash plan health policy.
What happened
Mr F took out a cash plan health policy in May 2003. It renewed monthly. The premium was 
set based on his age at the time, and the marketing literature said that there would be no 
price rises as you get older.
Mr Fs premium only increased over the years due to an increase in the Insurance Premium 
Tax. But in January 2021, AIG wrote to Mr F that to support the plan into the future, it 
needed to increase the premium by 50%. So, if Mr F decided to keep the policy, hed need to 
pay the new premium from April 2021 onwards. Alternatively, he could cancel the policy with 
immediate effect. AIG said it was giving policyholders 60 days notice, instead of the usual 
30 days, to consider the change.
Mr F didnt think AIG could or should increase the premium, considering the promise in the 
marketing literature in 2003 when he took out the policy. He also said he didnt receive AIGs 
letter until mid-February 2021, so he didnt get 60 days notice. So, he complained to AIG.
AIG said that a business decision was made to give policyholders the option to continue 
having the cover with a higher premium, rather than removing the product completely which 
wouldve meant cancelling all existing policies. AIG also explained that it needed to increase 
the premium to maintain customer benefits, considering the increasing costs of providing the 
cover. Unhappy with the response, Mr F brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she said that insurers were entitled 
to vary the terms of the cover provided and the amounts they charge for that cover, provided 
they do it fairly. She thought AIG had treated Mr F the same as any other policyholder in the 
same situation. She also thought AIG had given Mr F enough notice, as the terms only 
required it to give 30 days notice of changes to the policy. So, our investigator didnt think 
AIG had treated Mr F unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through all the information, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. This is 
because:
Firstly, I do appreciate how disappointing it was for Mr F to receive the letter in 
January 2021 explaining that there would be an increase in premium and the reasons 
for it. I say this as I acknowledge that the marketing literature promised no price 
rises as you get older. Nevertheless, the increase in price wasnt due to Mr Fs age 
nor was this guaranteed in the terms of the policy. 
Insurers can take a number of factors into account when deciding the premium 
amount. Its not our role to tell a business what it should charge for the insurance its 
offering, as thats a commercial decision for them. Insurers can also review and 
amend the premiums charged for policies  as long as they do so fairly.
Im satisfied AIG hasnt treated Mr F unfairly or unreasonably when it increased the 
premium on his policy  the same increase applied to all policyholders who held the 
same policy as Mr F. So, AIG treated him the same as any other policyholder in a 
similar situation. Im also satisfied the reasons AIG has given for the premium 
increase overall are fair. The alternative wouldve been for AIG to cease cover with 
notice  but it wanted to give policyholders the option to continue with the policy if 
they chose to do so. I think that was fair too.
This was a monthly renewable policy, and Mr F could cancel it anytime with 
immediate effect. The terms of the policy require AIG to give Mr F 30 days notice of 
changes to the policy. AIG can also cancel the policy by giving Mr F 30 days notice. I 
think AIG acted fairly and reasonably by giving Mr F more than 30 days notice of the 
change. This meant that Mr F could cancel the policy before the premium increase 
took effect, if he wished to do so.
I note that Mr F has commented on the service he received from AIG when he made 
his complaint. Our service cant consider complaint-handling as it is not a regulated 
activity. But in any event, I note that AIG did respond to Mr Fs concerns first on 
17 March 2021 to explain in more detail why the premium was increasing in 
April 2021. So, Mr F still couldve cancelled his policy before his premium increased, 
as I think AIG had made its position clear.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman