DRN-2723985
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) hasnt paid them their 
Premium Bond prizes.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B say they should have been paid over £300 by NS&I for Premium Bond prizes 
in 2020. They say they were paid the winnings, but NS&I took the money back and they 
would like the money they are owed paid to them.
NS&I say it issued warrants for the 13 payments for £25 but Mr B called it, and following that 
call, it agreed to make a payment directly into Mr and Mrs Bs bank account. It says it 
cancelled the warrants and paid the money on 11 and 16 September 2020. NS&I doesnt 
accept making a mistake.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us and our investigator, after obtaining a bank 
statement for the period in question, didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator thought 
the warrants were cancelled following Mr Bs request and that the money had been paid into 
the account. The investigator didnt think there any evidence the money had been taken out 
of Mr and Mrs Bs account by NS&I.
Mr and Mrs B dont accept that view and maintain the money wasnt paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that NS&I has dealt fairly with this complaint 
and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision, 
but I hope it goes some way to explain what I think took place.
There is no question here that Mr and Mrs B were due payments from their Premium Bonds 
in 2020. Im satisfied that NS&I made the payments via warrant and that following a call to it 
from Mr B, cancelled those warrants and agreed to make a direct payment into Mr and Mrs 
Bs account.
I have looked carefully at Mr and Mrs Bs bank account statement. I can see that on 15 
September 2020 there were seven payments of £25 credited to the account and on 18 
September 2020 a further six payments of £25 credited which makes a total of 13 payments 
with a total of £325. Im satisfied that figure is inline with NS&Is records of Mr and Mrs Bs 
winnings and corresponds to the payments NS&I made on 11 and 16 September 2020. So, 
Im satisfied that NS&I did pay Mr and Mrs B the money they were owed for their Premium 
Bond winnings.
I think the confusion comes from entries on Mr and Mrs Bs bank statement on 21 
September 2020. I can see that there are seven debits for £25 described as an unpaid 
cheque totalling £275. It is not clear if they are related to the Premium Bond payments, but I 
appreciate why Mr and Mrs B would question if they are, as they are for the same about as 
the winnings. But I can also see that same day a payment is made into the account of £275 
which of course is the same amount as the seven debits. I dont think it clear if that cheque 
was part of the original payment method and then cancelled. But the key issue is if Mr and 
Mrs B received their winnings and for the reasons, I have explained Im satisfied they did.
Overall, I cant fairly conclude that NS&I has not paid Mr and Mrs B the money they were 
owed and am satisfied the money was paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman