DRN-2272385
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland trading at the time 
of sale as Halifax) mis-sold them three mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policies.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W bought a regular premium MPPI policy in September 1989 when they were 
also arranging a mortgage in a meeting with Bank of Scotland. The mortgage and policy 
ended in April 1993.
Mrs W and Mr W then bought another MPPI policy in October 1993 alongside a mortgage in 
a meeting with Bank of Scotland. This mortgage was arranged so that the benefit provided 
would be split equally between Mrs W and Mr W. The mortgage and policy ended in 
November 1999.
In 2000, Mrs W and Mr W took out a third MPPI policy when they arranged another 
mortgage in a meeting with Bank of Scotland. This mortgage and MPPI policy were set up a 
year or so later in April 2001. The mortgage and policy ended in December 2003.
Mrs W and Mr W think the MPPI policy was mis-sold to them. They say they were unaware 
the MPPI policies were added to their mortgages each time.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs W and Mr Ws case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint because of the following reasons:
Sale of a mortgage and MPPI policies in 1989 and 1993
Bank of Scotland has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that 
was used at the time of each sale in 1989 and 1993. There is little information 
available and so I cant be sure how the policy was presented by Bank of Scotland to 
Mrs W and Mr W in either meeting. Ive not been able to see most of the original 
sales documentation (such as the application form). So, its been difficult for me to 
consider whether Mrs W and Mr W were given a choice or not as to whether they 
should have the MPPI policy in 1989 and 1993.
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Bank of Scotland sold these 
policies around this time. Ive also not been able to obtain a detailed recollection from 
Mrs W and Mr W of how the policies were sold at the time of each sale either. This is 
understandable considering the many years that have passed from each sale. So, 
taking these points into consideration, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that 
the policies in 1989 and 1993 were sold in the way Mrs W and Mr W say they were 
(that the MPPI policies were added without their knowledge). I just havent seen 
enough to persuade me that this was the case. 
Moving on, I cant be sure if Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI policies to                
Mrs W and Mr W. But after reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if 
either MPPI policy was unsuitable for Mrs W and Mr W anyway based on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time. 
I say this because although Mrs W and Mr W say they both had full sick pay and 
several months worth of savings to rely on, I think the policy would have come in 
useful in a time of need. It would have also paid in addition to their provisions. I think, 
on balance, they had a need for this cover for any extended period of unemployment 
or sickness in 1989 and 1993. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a 
significant or limiting term from the policy documents provided that would make the 
policy unsuitable for either of them either.
I cannot be sure that the costs were disclosed to Mrs W and Mr W in a clear and fair 
way at the time of each sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly, I dont 
think Mrs W and Mr W would have done anything different and decided against 
having the policies for the reasons that I have already given for either policy being 
suitable.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policies didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mrs W and Mr W wouldve been affected by any of these.
Sale of a mortgage and MPPI that started in April 2001
In 2000, when Mrs W and Mr W were arranging their mortgage in a meeting (their 
mortgage and MPPI then started in April 2001), I can see from the sales 
documentation provided that a separate MPPI application form was used. This form 
had a series of questions on it about the insurance. I am persuaded after seeing this 
form that a discussion was had around MPPI. 
Im also not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax or its representatives 
sold these policies at that time. So, when I consider what I have in front of me, 
I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that Mrs W and Mr W were not given a 
choice to have the policy during the sale.
Halifax has said the policy was recommended to Mrs W and Mr W during the 
meeting. So, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mrs W and Mr W, it had 
to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr Ws needs (as the sole 
policy holder).
After reviewing the information provided to me, it looks like the policy was suitable for 
Mr W based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time of the sale. Mr W 
says he had full sick pay and several months worth of savings, but the benefit provided by the policy would have been of use to him in addition to his provisions. 
I think, on balance, he would have found the cover the policy provided useful for any 
extended period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason 
such as a significant or limiting term that would make the policies unsuitable for him.
I can see from the separate MPPI application form used that they would have been 
clearly disclosed at the time of sale. The policy was affordable, and Mrs W and Mr W 
could have cancelled the policy at any time.
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold                
Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman