DRN-3232631
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr As complaint. 
summary and background to complaint
Mr A has said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a 
credit card in 2004.
Lloyds didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mr A had referred the complaint to us too late.
But Lloyds did offer to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of Mr As PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr A about the high level of 
commission and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr As complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Lloyds payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint. 
Mr As representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise new or 
additional points but asked us to reconsider points and arguments theyd made previously. 
Mr A also asked us to continue to progress his complaint  so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
Please note that after Lloyds sent the redress payment to Mr A in September 2019, it told us 
the redress needed to be recalculated and that more was owed to Mr A as a result. It told us 
this in November 2019  I dont know whether this extra redress has been paid to Mr A yet.
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Lloyds sent a final response letter to Mr A in March 2013. It refers to a letter from Mr A that 
in February 2013 said he was dissatisfied with the PPI because he was led to believe taking 
it would improve his chances of getting the credit card. Lloyds letter says Lloyds didnt agree 
the policy was mis-sold. It gives Lloyds views on various matters, such as whether the policy 
was suitable for Mr A and whether it was made clear to him it was optional. So, from what I 
have, Im satisfied Mr As complaint at the time was a complaint about the sale of the policy. 
The six months Mr A had to refer that complaint to us ran out in 2013  and Mr A didnt refer 
the complaint to us within that time period. Instead his representatives contacted us in 2019 
complaining about the sale of the policy again, having contacted Lloyds earlier in 2019.
Mr As representatives have said they cant verify that all matters they are now raising were 
addressed in the earlier complaint. But in my view Mr As complaint about the PPI sale is in 
substance the complaint Lloyds responded to in 2013. So in my view it is a complaint Mr A 
had six months from Lloydss 2013 letter to bring to us. As he came to us outside that time, 
that complaint was referred to us out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. Having considered 
all that has been said by and for Mr A, Ive nothing to suggest exceptional circumstances 
apply here. For example, Ive seen nothing to suggest he couldnt have referred a complaint 
about the sale to us before the time to do so ran out in 2013 and Ive nothing to suggest the 
delay between then and his approach to us in 2019 was due to exceptional circumstances. 
So I dont think exceptional circumstances apply here.
It follows that were unable to help Mr A with his complaint about how the policy was sold  
Im sorry that this may disappoint Mr A.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused, 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr A about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr A was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A, because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMr As representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint, including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr A should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr A about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr A wouldnt have taken the policy had he 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr A in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the 
high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view, a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr As representative suggests, driven to conclude he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloyds failure to disclose the level of commission, for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr A paid for his PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider Lloyds offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.As I said above, Lloyds sent a redress payment to Mr A in September 2019, by cheque, but 
it has since told us that more was owed to Mr A  and I dont know whether this extra has 
been paid to Mr A yet.
Im grateful to Mr A for his attention and courtesy throughout our consideration of his case.
my final decision
Im unable to consider Mr As complaint about how his policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr A an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) - if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022. 
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman