DRN-1779511
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr C bought the PPI policy in 2000 when taking out a credit card. The PPI provided cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
I think RBS made Mr C aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose 
to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs signed credit card application form 
from the time of sale. On the form, in a separate section for the PPI headed Card Payment 
Protection, I can see Mr C ticked a box to show he wanted PPI. So, I think RBS made it 
clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional and that he actively decided to take it. But this sale 
was a very long time ago, so I can understand why he may not remember this now.
RBS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C and I think this is likely to have been the 
case. This is because I havent seen anything to suggest that RBS assessed Mr Cs 
circumstances and made a formal recommendation that he take out the PPI. This means 
RBS didnt have to check if the policy was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr C 
got the information he needed to decide this for himself. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But from what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I dont think better 
information would have changed his mind about taking it. I say this because:
Mr C appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
 
Mr C says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer. But this policy would have 
paid out in addition to his sick pay and for much longer than it would have lasted. It 
would have protected his card repayments for up to twelve months if he was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. And he chose to take 
out the policy so it looks like he was interested in this type of cover and would have 
valued the extra security it gave him.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mr C. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
 
So I dont think Mr C has lost out by anything that RBS may have done wrong when it sold 
him this PPI policy.
This means RBS doesnt have to compensate Mr C for all of the cost of the PPI. But RBS 
does have to compensate Mr C for some of the cost of the PPI because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair.
 
To put that right, RBS has offered to compensate Mr C for the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to 
compensate Mr C for all of the cost he paid for the PPI. But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
does have to compensate Mr C for any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. So, if it hasnt already paid its offer of compensation for this to 
Mr C, it should now update this offer and pay it to Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman