DRN-1588248
The complaint
Mrs O complains One Insurance Limited has avoided her policy for misrepresentation whilst 
taking out the motor insurance. She complains that she answered the questions honestly 
and to the best of her knowledge. 
What happened
Mrs O took out new insurance to cover her car to start on 22 November 2018. The insurance 
covered both her and another party. Mrs O had a prior accident in January 2018 when her 
unattended vehicle had been hit by another car; the third party left the scene. She claimed 
on her insurance at the time. 
When taking out her insurance with One Insurance she went through a comparison site. She 
informed the site of the accident and was asked 'Who was at fault?' with a number of options 
available for completion:
Both parties
no other vehicle involved 
Other party
our driver
Unoccupied vehicle
Mrs O completed this section to explain the other party was at fault - because the other party 
had hit her vehicle whilst it was parked, and so they were at fault.  
Mrs O was involved in another accident on 1 October 2019. She submitted a claim and when 
reviewing it, One Insurance discovered her previous claim had been registered as a fault 
claim against her, as costs hadn't been recouped from the third party. It declined the claim 
and avoided the policy from the outset, as it says it wouldn't have provided cover had it 
known of the fault claim.  
Mrs O complained. One Insurance stood by its decision to decline the claim and avoid the 
policy; it said there was an option of 'unoccupied vehicle' which it says Mrs O should have 
selected. And it said that as there was no other party to claim costs from, it could only have 
been Mrs O as the at fault party. 
Our investigator didn't think One Insurance had treated Mrs O fairly. He didn't think the 
question asked during the application process was clear, and so a qualifying 
misrepresentation hadn't occurred. He recommended One Insurance reconsider the claim, 
redress Mrs O for any increased premium she may have had to pay when taking out new 
insurance, and to remove any record of the policy being avoided from the CUE database. In 
reaching his findings the investigator didn't think a lay person would understand industry 
jargon surrounding fault and non-fault claims. One Insurance asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It said Mrs O ought to 
have been told how her previous claim had been recorded against her (Mrs O has confirmed 
she doesn't have this information). It doesn't consider fault vs non-fault to be industry jargon 
and that most understand this and it said Mrs O should have completed the question as 'our 
driver' as fault had been registered against her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) there is 
a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to the 
insurer. And CIDRA sets out that whether or not a consumer has taken reasonable care is to 
be determined in light of all the relevant circumstances, including amongst others, how clear 
and specific the insurer's questions were [S3 (2)]. 
One Insurance is right, that as Mrs O's previous insurer wasn't able to recoup costs for 
repairs etc from the third party who caused the damage, the claim is recorded as a fault 
claim against Mrs O. This doesn't mean the insurer believes Mrs O was at fault, simply that it 
hasn't been able to recoup its costs. One Insurance believes the general population know or 
understand this. I disagree. We get many complaints at this office where this has caused 
confusion for policy holders. I don't accept this is something most reasonable consumers 
know or understand.  
But this does mean the information provided by Mrs O through the comparison site was 
incorrect. And One Insurance did provide cover it otherwise wouldn't have done (it has 
provided supporting evidence of this). Under CIDRA One Insurance does have a remedy 
against Mrs O if it can show any misrepresentation was made in breach of her duty to take 
reasonable care and the insurer would not have entered into the contract or would have 
done so on different terms [S4 (1)]. These are known as qualifying misrepresentations. 
If I find that Mrs O didn't take reasonable care, then One Insurance does have the remedy of 
avoiding the policy. But if I find, taking into account all the relevant circumstances, Mrs O did 
take reasonable care, then One Insurance doesn't have a remedy against Mrs O even 
though she provided incorrect information. 
Mrs O did provide notification of her previous claim.  And I have set out above, in the 
background section, what question she was asked about the claim and the possible 
answers. Having considered this carefully, I agree with our investigator, I don't find the 
question clear. I find this because the question is 'Who was at fault? [my emphasis]. I am 
satisfied that most reasonable consumers would understand this to mean who was at fault 
for the accident, not who fault was recorded against by the insurer. And I think the options 
for answering reinforce that; they include 'other party' and 'our driver'. The only additional 
information that appears to be provided is that if the claim is unsettled then 'our driver' ought 
to be selected. 
Had One Insurance wanted to know how the claim had been recorded, then it should have 
asked that clearly. Indeed during our investigation One Insurance has said Mrs O ought to 
have answered 'unoccupied vehicle' and 'our driver'. One Insurance itself has given two 
different answers to the question asked; if One Insurance isn't clear on how this should have 
been answered, I fail to see how Mrs O ought to have known. 
Mrs O has explained she thought she was being asked who was at fault for the accident; I 
accept her statement as plausible and persuasive. I find the question was unclear and that Mrs O took reasonable care when answering it. It follows the misrepresentation made by Mrs 
O isn't a qualifying misrepresentation, and so One Insurance has no remedy against her.  I 
therefore uphold this complaint as I find One Insurance has treated Mrs O unfairly. 
Putting things right
As I have upheld this complaint I require One Insurance to:
reinstate Mrs O's motor insurance policy; and
reconsider Mrs O's claim for the October 2019 accident; and
amend its records and any central database (such as CUE) so there is no record of 
Mrs O's policy being avoided; and
refund any difference in premium Mrs O has had to pay as a result of her having the 
policy avoided, and what she would have paid had that record not been made.  
One Insurance should also add 8% per annum simple interest to any refund made from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.  If Mrs O is out of pocket as a result of the claim 
being declined (i.e. if Mrs O had to pay for her own repairs, or repairs to a third party) One 
Insurance also needs to add 8% per annum simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and I require One 
Insurance Limited to redress Mrs O as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman