DRN-4009565
The complaint
Miss M complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) have unfairly registered a default with the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Miss M says that she received two letters together in separate envelopes from Ikano. One 
was regarding a fee for a missed payment, and another one was regarding a default. But 
Miss M says she did not receive a notice of default. Miss M says she immediately paid the 
outstanding balance in full, along with the missed payment charge and contacted Ikano to 
inform them and asked them to remove the default, but they refused. She believes some 
letters may have been delivered next door, but nobody lives there.
Miss M said after speaking with the call handler for over an hour and raised a complaint, he 
hung up on her, so she had to ring Ikano back. Miss M says that Ikano didnt use all forms of 
contact such as email and telephone to try and contact her about her arrears. Miss M made 
a complaint to Ikano.
Ikano partially upheld Miss Ms complaint. They said payments for May, June and July 2022 
had not been received. They said a Notice of Default was issued to her on 14 July 2022, but 
as this was not satisfied they sent her a Notice of Termination on 11 August 2022. Ikano said 
that each call handler she spoke to logged a complaint regarding Miss Ms concerns, and as 
these were raised with the same aspects, her two complaints had been merged. They said 
after her first call disconnected, the agent did attempt to call her back and discuss the 
conversation with their management team, however Miss M was already connected with 
another call handler. They said during the first call Miss M requested to speak to a manager, 
but due to the disconnection there was no expectation set by the call handler, so the call 
handler did not raise the request with a manager. For this, Ikano apologised and offered 
Miss M £20 compensation. Miss M brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator said Ikanos evidence showed they wrote to Miss M on 12 May, 12 June, 12 
July, 14 July and 11 August 2022, informing her of missed payments, fees charged and a 
notice of default, but as the arrears were not paid by this date, a default was registered. She 
said the £20 Ikano offered Miss M for not speaking to a manager was fair. 
Miss M asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said when she opened the account she was vulnerable and Ikano accepted 
her for the account without a thorough assessment. She said that the call handler hung up 
on her after going to get a manager to speak to her, and the notes she had from Ikano 
doesnt show he tried to ring her back. She said she hadnt been offered £20 compensation 
on the calls. Miss M says she didnt receive correspondence from Ikano such as the notice 
of default and other letters Ikano claim to have sent her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has asked me to consider complaint points that werent part of her original complaint 
to Ikano, such as what she said about being vulnerable when she opened the account and 
they accepted her for the account without a thorough assessment. Our investigator has 
explained to Miss M that Im unable to look at these points as part of this complaint, and Im 
aware a new complaint has been set up for her. As such I wont be discussing these points 
in my decision.
Miss M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. Miss M appears to have missed her payments due in May, June and July 2022. I 
can see that Ikano sent Miss M letters dated 12 May, 12 June and 12 July 2022 regarding 
these missed payments. On 12 July 2022, they also sent her a notice of default, which 
informed her that she must pay her arrears by 4 August 2022. The notice informs Miss M 
that if she doesnt take the action required before this date, then they would terminate her 
agreement and notify the CRAs that she had defaulted on her agreement. 
As Miss M did not make the required payment by 4 August 2022, then Ikano did what they 
said they were going to do. They terminated the agreement and notified the CRAs she 
defaulted on the account, and this was confirmed to her in a letter dated 11 August 2022. 
Ive considered what Miss M has said about her not receiving these letters. But I can see 
they are addressed to the same address where Miss M did receive the termination notice 
and the missed payment letter dated 11 August 2022 (as she sent us a photograph of these 
letters). Although Miss M says she never received the other letters Ikano claim to have sent 
her, I cant hold Ikano responsible for any postal system errors as this would be out of their 
control. Ikano are not required to send a default notice by other means such as a text 
message, phone call or email. So as Miss M didnt make the required payment by the 
relevant deadline, Im unable to ask Ikano to remove the default as they have made no error 
here, when they didnt receive a payment from Miss M for over three months. 
Ive listened to the calls that Miss M had with Ikano. She says the call handler hung up on 
her and she strongly believes he didnt ring her back as there are no notes to show he did 
this. But after listening to the call Im not persuaded that he disconnected the call on 
purpose. I say this as he had placed Miss M on hold while he went to try and find when a 
manager could give Miss M a call back. He didnt disconnect the call when leaving Miss M to 
speak to a manager, it was after a couple of minutes after trying to speak to a manager  
presumably when he was trying to take Miss M off hold to speak to her. The tone of the call 
was cordial, and the call handler was calm throughout the call, so Im not persuaded on the 
balance of probabilities that he purposely hung up on Miss M. 
Miss M is correct to say that the notes dont show that he tried to call her back, but Ikano 
have sent us an outbound recording dated on the same day to Miss M, where the call 
handler reaches her voicemail. Miss M rang back Ikano and spoke to a different call handler, 
who raised a complaint on her behalf. But regardless of why the call disconnected, it would 
have inconvenienced Miss M having to ring back Ikano when the previous call disconnected. 
And the call handler could have left a voicemail for her, unless he could already see she was 
already on the phone to another call handler at Ikano. 
Ikano offered Miss M £20 as Miss M never received a call back from a manager. This offer of 
compensation wasnt mentioned on the calls as this was part of the outcome of her 
complaint. So this was offered in her final response letter, which I can see was emailed to her. The offer is in line with what our service would expect Ikano to offer Miss M for her 
experience with the first call being disconnected. So it follows that Ikano should pay Miss M 
the £20 compensation that they offered her.
My final decision
Ikano Bank AB (publ) has already made an offer to pay £20 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Ikano Bank AB (publ) should pay Miss M £20 for inconvenience (if 
they havent already done so). But I wont be requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman