DRN-3139078
The complaint
Miss B complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly gave her a running account 
credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In September 2013, Miss B applied for a credit account with Next. She was given an initial 
credit limit of £150. The credit limit was increased several times over the following four 
years. And at times the credit limit was reduced and the account suspended. In 2017 Miss 
B failed to make payments to the account and the account fell into arrears and eventually 
defaulted in November 2017. The account was passed to an external debt recovery agency 
in December 2017.  
In December 2019, Miss B complained to Next to say that the account shouldnt have 
been opened for her because it wasnt affordable. She said adequate affordability checks 
werent carried out. She also felt that throughout the four years Next ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Our adjudicator asked for 
some extra information from Miss B and at the time of writing that information has not been 
provided. Our adjudicator didnt think Next had always completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before approving the credit increases. However, in the 
absence of any evidence to think otherwise, she thought that had it done so, it would likely 
still have concluded the credit and the credit increases were affordable, so she didnt think 
Next had acted unfairly in managing the account. 
Miss B didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicator in her assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so I dont intend 
to cover them off here. Miss Bs complaint is that Next failed to make adequate checks 
before providing her with credit or increased credit over the four years. 
Next has explained that it carried out a credit check using at least one and sometimes more 
than one credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Next told us 
that Miss Bs account was assessed on a monthly basis from the credit check information 
and the credit limit was set using that information and their observation of Miss Bs 
management of the account. 
It appears that these checks were, at times, sufficient. The early credit was provided when 
there was no adverse information on Miss Bs credit file. The initial credit limit was modest 
and so I dont think better enquiries would have caused Next to think the credit limit was 
unaffordable. 
But there were times when the checks appear to have been not as searching as they 
could have been. The credit limit increased quickly over a relatively short time. And when 
the credit limit was increased to £2,500 in May 2015, this happened against a backdrop of 
several late payments in the preceding year as well some difficulty repaying other credit 
commitments. Next says it relied on Miss Bs management of the account and the data 
from her credit file it sourced. But I think the management of the account and the 
substantial increase in the credit limit should have suggested to Next that more searching 
enquires would have been pragmatic, particularly because the credit checks suggested 
she might have begun struggling to pay other credit. I note it didnt ask Miss B about her 
income and so without this I dont think Next could adequately assess whether the lending 
was affordable or not. I therefore dont think the affordability checks they completed were 
reasonable or proportionate in this case.
But I have also considered that Miss Bs payments were sometimes late but not missed at 
this time. Its also true that whilst there were times when the minimum payments were made 
a little late, there were also times when Miss B made her minimum payments and at times 
would make overpayments. And Miss B had managed her account such that she was not 
using anywhere close to the credit limit that Next had been offering her. And in the absence 
of extra information from Miss B I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a more 
thorough affordability check would have led Next to think that it should not increase her 
credit at that time.
In December 2015, Next took action to limit credit when it could see some adverse 
information on Miss Bs credit file. In December 2015 Next suspended the credit facility and 
Miss B continued to make purchases paying for goods in full and upfront. When the account 
had been run successfully on that basis for six months the credit was reinstated at a modest 
level of £400 and then later to £1,000. Given how Miss B had managed the account in the 
past I think Next ought to have completed more thorough affordability checks before 
granting and increasing the limit. However, as Ive already said, Miss B hasnt given us 
enough information for me to be persuaded that further checks ought to have led to a 
different lending decision. Having looked at all the submissions made to me in this case, I 
am not persuaded that Miss B lost out as a result of unaffordable lending at a time when 
that lending was being reduced and suspended. 
In general, I have noted that at times the credit limits were raised and at times reduced. The 
account was suspended and reinstated. And all these decisions were made by Next based 
on Miss Bs management of her account and the credit file information that Next sourced 
monthly. And whilst there were times during this period when I consider the checks were 
insufficient, based on the submissions that have been made to us in this case, Im not 
persuaded that fuller enquiries into Miss Bs circumstances would have led Next to conclude 
it should have taken courses of action that were significantly different to those they took.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman