DRN-3967722
The complaint
Mr E complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Ltd have declined his claim for theft of 
his motorbike and provided poor service.
What happened
Mr E had an insurance policy with Markerstudy for his motorbike.  
In May 2022 Mr Es motorbike was stolen, and he made a claim. Markerstudy declined the 
claim saying the motorbike wasnt in a locked garage at the time it was taken, which was a 
requirement of the terms of the policy. 
 
Mr E complained about this. He said that he was in the process of moving to his new house, 
and the motorbike was stolen from his new property, which was not the property at which the 
motorbike was yet registered. 
Mr E also complained that he had to pay for recovery and he was being charged £105.36 for 
the policy even though he has cancelled it. He also complained about issues of not being 
able to get through to Markerstudy on the telephone. 
In their final response, Markerstudy said that they were satisfied the claim had been declined 
fairly, and that as the claim had been declined, they werent responsible for the recovery 
fees. They accepted there were failings in the service and sent Mr E £75.00 to recognise 
this. 
Mr E was unhappy with Markerstudys response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Es complaint but he thought Markerstudy had 
acted fairly in declining his claim and their offer for compensation was fair. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Markerstudy have fairly declined the claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy, and whether they have provided a good standard of 
service. 
I can appreciate how upsetting it has been for Mr E to have his one method of transport 
stolen and damaged beyond repair, and finding that he wasnt covered by his insurance as 
he had expected would have added to this. Im sorry that he finds himself in this position.  
However, Ive carefully considered the information provided by Mr E and Markerstudy  and I 
wont be upholding this complaint. I will explain why. 
Declining the claim
Markerstudy say that they have declined the claim because the motorbike wasnt in a locked 
garage in line with the terms of the following policy endorsement:
You have agreed that you will keep your vehicle in your private locked garage or 
building, at your home address, to which only you and anyone with your permission 
have access. If a theft or attempted theft of your vehicle happens at any time and 
within a 500-metre radius of your home address when the vehicle is not locked in this 
garage or building, we will not pay the claim. This restriction does not apply to any 
loss or damage occurring whilst your motorcycle is parked away from your home 
during the course of a journey.
This endorsement appears on the policy schedule which was provided to Mr E when he 
bought the policy.  
I have listened to the calls Mr E made to Markerstudy when he first reported the theft, and 
the subsequent calls when he was asked for extra information, and when the claim was 
declined. In these calls Mr E admits that the motorbike wasnt in the garage, but he says that 
it was locked and immobilised and was on his drive, in front of the garage, but behind his 
gate. Im satisfied from Mr Es own account of matters evidences that the motorbike wasnt 
stored in the way that the policy endorsement requires for a claim to be validated.
However, Mr E told us that he was in the process of moving house, and so he left the bike 
outside as he intended to use it to go back to the old property to get more possessions after 
a short break. Mr E has pointed out that his motorbike was still registered at his previous 
address at the time of the theft, and that he still had a valid tenancy agreement in place for 
the property he was moving from. 
So,  Ive then thought about whether Mr Es home for the purposes of the policy was the 
address he was moving from, or the address he was moving to. 
There is no definition of home in the policy booklet, so Ive applied the ordinary meaning of 
the word, which is the place where you live. 
During one of the calls to Markerstudy, they ask Mr E very specific questions about where he 
is living. Mr E advises Markerstudy that he moved into the new property on the previous 
Saturday but that he was still bringing items across. He says he went inside the new 
property to have some food and take a shower and nap, and it was during that period that 
his bike was stolen. It was a period of 3 hours or so. 
Although I can see that Mr E still had a tenancy agreement in place for the old property for a 
few more weeks, he refers to his family being at the new property, and the fact that he went 
in to have some food with them, have a shower, and to have some rest supports 
Markerstudys finding that he is living at the new property, as both his family and many of his 
possessions are there. I have also taken into account that in the conversations with 
Markerstudy, Mr E refers to the new property as his home, and to the previous property as 
his old house. And so, Im satisfied that for the purposes of the policy and the application of the 
endorsement, Markerstudy have acted fairly in finding that Mr Es motorbike was parked 
outside his home, and therefore needed to be in a private locked garage when not in use in 
order to be covered by the policy.  
Mr E has raised an issue that he thought that the requirement for garaging was only  
overnight, and he says when he took out the policy, he only responded to say that the 
motorbike would be garaged overnight. Im satisfied that the terms are clear that the 
endorsement applies to any time the motorbike is within 500 metres of home and doesnt 
only apply to overnight storage.  I cant make any comment in what Mr E was told during the 
sale process as the policy was sold through a broker, and so any complaint about what Mr E 
was told during the sale process would have to be raised as a complaint about the broker. 
Poor service
In terms of the service that Markerstudy provided, I can see that Mr E had some difficulty 
getting through on the telephone, and I also think Markerstudy could have explained the 
endorsement to him sooner and bit more clearly. However, this wouldnt have changed the 
outcome. I can see that Markerstudy have paid Mr E £75 in respect of these service failings 
and Im satisfied that this is fair offer. 
 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Es complaint about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited and so I 
wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman