DRN-3190874
The complaint
Ms H has complained about the shares she bought through Templeton Securities Limited 
(an appointed representative of Alexander David Securities Limited). In short, she 
considers the shares were high risk and unsuitable for her.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 21 October 2021. The background and
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it
were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant sections from that provisional
decision below, and it forms part of this final decision.
Ms H had been encouraged to switch her pension benefits from a personal pension to a 
SIPP by two unregulated firms  initially by a firm I will refer to as Firm A, who then put her 
in contact with Firm B. The total value switched from the personal pension was £25,297 in 
April 2014. My understanding is that Templeton Securities Limited wasnt involved in the 
advice given to Ms H to switch her pension to the SIPP.
Ms H was then persuaded by Firm B to open an account with Templeton Securities. Ms H 
completed an application form for a Private Client Portfolio account. When Ms H opened the 
account she completed a Private Client Portfolio Agreement and Application Booklet. These 
said, amongst other things:
What to expect as a client of Templeton Securities
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as an 
independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private client 
investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit individual client 
needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will 
need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which 
will enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore 
imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we are 
unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
We are required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 {"FSMA") to provide 
you with suitable investment advice and services, based on the information you provide to 
us about your circumstances. By completing this form in its entirety, you will enable us to 
fully comply with the requirements of this Act.
Under the section Important Financial Information it said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the 
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and liabilities, 
and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when assessing 
the suitability of our investment management service we provide...
Please enter details of your total assets and liabilities (Please enter amounts to the 
nearest thousand pounds).
Under a list of asset types including Property, Cash, Investment ISAs, Equity Investments 
and Investment Bonds, N/A was recorded under Property, £25,000 under Pension Plan,
£1,000 under Cash and £2,000 under Investment ISAs. Her total assets were recorded as
£28,000. Ms Hs income was noted as £1,590, her expenditure as £1,490 and total 
surplus was £100. I think this is likely to be per month.
Under Investment Risk and Objectives it said:
Preferred Level of Portfolio Risk
Please indicate below your preferred level of portfolio risk as part of your overall investment 
strategy.
A tick was placed in the Medium/High category.
The section headed Investment Experience asked what types of investment Ms H had 
traded previously and the box Advisory Broking was ticked. When asked to describe her 
level of experience for various asset classes, the novice category (less than 1 year) was 
ticked for equities, fixed interest and alternative assets. And the intermediate (1-5 years) 
for funds.
When asked if copy information should be sent to her professional intermediary including her 
Independent Financial Adviser, the section for details was left blank.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of investments 
for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we have received and 
which I agree to.
The relevant sections of the General Terms and Conditions of Business included:
2. Introduction
2.1 This document contains details of the investment advisory and execution only services 
which Templeton Securities (TEMPLETON) shall provide you with our services in 
accordance with the Client Application Form, and it sets out the obligations and rights 
applying between us and you.
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable 
Regulations. 
The term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by 
the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
 c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable 
Regulations, the latter will prevail;3.The services we will provide
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with 
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial 
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though you 
have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that you are not 
expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in a non-complex 
financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product investment 
recommendations. Nothing in our literature or in these Terms & Conditions should be 
treated as a solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or maintain any product. We will 
action all instructions on an execution-only basis. This means that we are only able to act 
on the instructions that you provide. We cannot give you advice about what instructions you 
should give us. You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when you 
engage our services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility on a 
continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio
3.2 If we have agreed to provide you with an advisory service, we accept responsibility for 
advising you as to the merits of any particular investment based on the information supplied 
by you in the TEMPLETON Application Form pertaining to your individual circumstances, 
requirements and objectives. We may provide you with investment advice on your request. 
Information supplied by you, via the TEMPLETON Application Form, should be updated as 
necessary before we give you advice on a particular transaction. If you do not inform us of 
any investment or types of investments, which you do not wish us to recommend or 
purchase for you, we may recommend to you any investments provided that we have 
reasonable grounds for believing that each investment product we do recommend is 
suitable and appropriate for you, in accordance with FCA rules. We do not undertake 
discretionary management of your investments, any investment advice we give you is 
provided on the understanding that we do not accept responsibility on a continuing basis for 
advising on the composition of your portfolio.
3.7 We may, at our discretion, decline to accept any order or instruction from you or instigate 
certain conditions prior to proceeding with your order.
4.9 Specific client instructions
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will 
execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions.
5. Suitability
5.1 In providing a managed portfolio service or giving investment advice to you, we are 
required by the FCA to obtain the necessary information from you regarding your knowledge 
and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of investment or service 
provided to you, your financial situation and your investment objectives in order to assess 
the suitability of our advice and of the transactions to be entered into by us on your behalf. In 
particular, we must obtain from you such information as is necessary for us to understand 
the essential facts about you and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving due 
consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific transactions 
to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets your investment objectives;
(b) is such that you are able to financially bear any related investment risks consistent with 
your investment objectives; and
(c) is such that you have the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of your portfolio.6. Appropriateness
6.1 In providing services other than investment advice management, we may be subject to 
an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the 
contemplated product or service for you by determining whether you have the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the 
specific type of product or service offered or demanded. In such circumstances, where on 
the basis of information received we consider that the contemplated product or service is 
not appropriate for you, we will provide you with a warning to that effect.
6.4 Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular 
transaction if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction, you 
are not expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where the 
transaction relates to non-complex financial instruments such as shares, bonds and 
UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will execute your order on that basis and we 
will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate for you. Please 
note therefore, that you will not benefit from the protection of the relevant FCA Rules 
requiring us to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the transaction for you.
The Terms definitions provided Execution-Only means that we act on your instructions 
and offer no advice as to whether such an investment is suitable for you.
Ms H applied for the account in May 2014, and a sum of £24,213 was transferred from the 
SIPP bank account into it in June 2014.
Templeton sent a letter to Ms H dated 29 May 2014. Amongst other things it said:
"We note your interest in high risk products, investments in smaller companies, in 
particular 'Penny Shares' and investments that are not readily realisable e.g. small 
unquoted companies involve a high risk that all or part of your investment may be lost.
You may also have difficulty in selling these shares at a reasonable price and in some 
circumstances you may not be able to sell at any price. There can be a big difference 
between the buying and selling price and if they have to be sold immediately, you may get 
back much less than you paid for them.
On 11 June 2014 Ms H was e-mailed by an unregulated firm (Firm B) asking her to copy 
and paste its instructions into an e-mail and send it to a specific contact at Templeton 
Securities, who I will refer to as Mr C. The e-mail included:
I wish to invest £12,106.50 in Eligere investments pic (ELI) gxg listed securities with a 55 
pence limit for T3 settlement.
I wish to invest £12,106.50 in Emmit plc (EMT) aim listed securities with a £1.945 limit for T1 
settlement.
Please advise me via e-mail when this has been transacted.
Ms H sent the e-mail to Mr C at Templeton Securities on the same day.
The investments into Eligere didnt proceed. When Ms H queried the matter with Templeton 
by e-mail sent on 19 June 2014, Mr C e-mailed her back on the same day saying:
Unfortunately there is not a seller at the moment we will try and complete as soon as
possible. Ms H e-mailed a further instruction to Mr C on 20 June 2014 which included:
I wish to invest £12,331.00 in Global Auto-Trade Group plc (GATG) gxg listed securities 
with a 20 pence limit for T3 settlement.
Templeton invested £12,226 in Global and £11,881 in Emmit (after commission and costs). 
Templeton wrote to Ms H on 11 September 2014. The letter said:
Re: Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type of 
stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its appropriate to 
invest in such high risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these 'Execution Only' but wish to advise 
that in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the 
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not 
benefit from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA Conduct of Business Rules.
The FCA issued a statement about the promotion of shares in Emmit on 31 October 2014. 
It said it had been made aware that individuals were being encouraged to transfer money 
from their work pension schemes into Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) and use 
that money to buy shares in Emmit plc. It said some investors were being offered cash 
back on their investments in Emmit plc of up to 30% of the transfer value, paid by a third 
party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors appeared to have invested 100% of their 
pension assets into Emmit plc shares and could suffer significant financial loss if they have 
done this without fully understanding what they were doing.
The FCA wrote to Ms H on 17 July 2015 alerting her that it was investigating the 
promotion of shares in Emmit Plc to UK customers. The letter said trading in Emmit 
shares was suspended on 17 October 2014, and on 8 May 2015 the shares were 
cancelled for trading.
The pension provider e-mailed Ms H on 23 October 2015 to say that the exchange that the 
Global shares were listed on had closed in August 2015. And her shares in it were no longer 
listed and had a value of zero.
Ms H complained to Templeton Securities in 2018. Templeton Securities didnt uphold Ms 
Hs complaint and it was referred to us.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and recommended that it should be 
upheld. He said, in brief, that he thought the wording of the e-mail instruction should have 
raised alarm bells with Templeton. Ms H had little to no experience with investments yet 
she had sent a technically worded investment instruction. The adjudicator said the 
investments were high risk and werent in line with Ms Hs circumstances. He thought 
Templetons failure to act in accordance with the Regulators Principles for Business had 
allowed the unregulated firms to advise and influence Ms H. He thought it should have 
been evident to Templeton that the investments were unsuitable for Ms H. And he thought
Templeton should have recognised Ms H wasnt a suitable investor for such an account.
Templeton Securities didnt agree. In summary, it said that it had acted in accordance with 
the accounts terms and conditions as well as regulatory requirements when it accepted the instruction. It said it had written to Ms H and drew her attention to the nature of the 
risks of the stocks in question. However Ms H had taken no action to mitigate her position 
despite having time to do so. Shed stood by her investment decision.
It noted the investigator had said Ms H received an incentive payment of £1,500. It said 
this was about 6% of the total investment and consideration should be given as to whether 
this was one of the reasons she transferred her pension. The payment should have raised 
alarm bells to Ms H.
Templeton Securities said the technical language used in the investment instruction was 
used universally in execution only orders, and it didnt agree it was the instruction of 
someone with considerable experience. The adjudicator had said it was unsuitable for 
Templeton to place nearly all of Ms Hs savings in two high risk funds, but it said 
Templeton wouldnt have known this at the time, and it wasnt aware she had been 
advised by an unregulated introducer.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory 
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of 
one or more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1R).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
include advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments 
(article 25 RAO). So I can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to 
provide advice. Or about arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only 
sale.
Ive therefore read and considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
      (c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the
relevant time.
When evidence is incomplete Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities  
which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is most likely to have happened 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
My understanding is that two unregulated firms were involved in the transaction which I 
will refer to as Firm A and Firm B. It appears Ms H was initially approached by Firm A who 
initiated the switch and then she was passed onto Firm B that was also involved in the 
switch, and was behind the opening of the stockbroking account with Templeton Securities 
and investment in the two shares.The documentation and literature that was provided at the time that the Private Client 
Portfolio account was opened clearly described the account as providing an advisory 
service. However, whilst the account was advisory, the terms did also provide for 
Templeton to accept execution only instructions in some circumstances.
Clause 6.1 of the General Terms and Conditions of Business said we may be subject to 
an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the 
contemplated product or service. I think this is reference to the requirements under COBS 
10 (the regulators Conduct of Business Rules). My understanding is the shares bought 
here werent subject to COBS 10. But Clause 6.4 went onto say:
Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular 
transaction if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that 
transaction, you are not expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only 
basis. Where the transaction relates to non-complex financial instruments such as shares, 
bonds and UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will execute your order on that 
basis and we will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate 
for you.
And Clause 3.1 provided:
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with 
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial 
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though 
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that 
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in 
a non- complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product 
investment recommendations. [My emphasis].
The documentation that has been provided doesnt show that Ms H was designated as 
an execution-only client. However Clause 3.1 and 6.4 provided an alternative basis for 
carrying out execution only services as highlighted. And Clauses 3.1 and 4.9 went onto 
say:
You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when you engage our 
services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility on a continuing 
basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio
4.9 Specific client instructions
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will 
execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions..
Given the particular wording of the 11 and 20 June 2014 e-mails, I think Templeton 
Securities was entitled to reasonably believe that Ms H wasnt expecting advice about 
the merits of the transaction. They were orders to buy particular shares and at a particular 
price, on a specific settlement basis. I dont think there was anything in the e-mail that 
suggests that Ms H was asking for advice about the merits of the purchases or otherwise 
suggests that Ms H was expecting Templeton to give her advice. I think this is consistent 
with the investments being driven by Firm B. Templeton wasnt therefore accepting 
responsibility for the investment decision executed on an execution only basis as per 
Clause 3.1 And it carried out the instruction as per Clause 4.9.Clause 6.4 of the terms said that Templeton Securities would write to Ms H where it 
executed a transaction in non-complex financial instruments to inform her it had placed 
the order on that basis. Templeton didnt do this at the time.
Templeton did write to Ms H on 11 September 2014. The letter was headed 
Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit and went onto say Ms H should consider 
whether or not she felt it was appropriate to invest in such high-risk investments. So 
clearly Templeton Securities thought it should write to Ms H about the appropriateness of 
the Emmitt shares, albeit a few months after the transaction had been completed.
Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. We 
have received a number of complaints against Templeton Securities representing 
Alexander David, about very similar transactions that all happened at around the same 
time.
Its apparent that Templeton Securities received a number of requests to open this type of 
advisory account with it, all within a relatively short period. And very shortly after the 
accounts were opened e-mailed instructions with almost identical wording were sent to 
Templeton Securities asking to invest in the Emmitt and Eligere shares. Templeton has 
said the wording of the e-mail wasnt uncommon for execution only transactions. However 
in my view it was still a technically worded instruction; T1 and T3 settlement isnt 
everyday language, and I think only the experienced would use that term and know its 
meaning.
In this case the purchase of the Eligere shares didnt go ahead and a different share was 
subsequently bought. However the original e-mail instruction was for the same two 
shares, and I think the principles I have outlined below still apply.
By the day that Templeton Securities received Ms Hs e-mail on 11 June 2014, it had 
already received at least another fifteen e-mails over the previous three-week period, from 
different investors all with near identical technical wording and sent to the same person 
(who I understand held the CF30 function with Alexander David Securities at that time). 
Templeton Securities/Alexander David should have copies of these e-mails on their files. 
However details (to the degree that it is appropriate to provide) of these e-mails can be 
requested from the investigator if required.
Firm B provided the wording for the e-mails. I think its likely further e-mails were sent to 
the same person at Templeton Securities on other accounts, as these examples are only 
the cases where investors have complained and the matter has been referred to us. I 
think its likely, on balance, that there are other instances which I am not aware of.
Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that duty 
wasnt unqualified.
Firstly, it had a broad contractual discretion whether to accept any order or instruction from 
Ms H as provided in Clause 3.7 of the Terms and Conditions. Second, it had an obligation 
to comply with the FCAs rules.
As I have set out above, the accounts Terms and Conditions included:
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable 
Regulations. The term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by 
the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
      b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and      c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable
Regulations, the latter will prevail.
So the duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the Terms and Conditions 
as an overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those Terms.
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection which it seeks to achieve through 
application of its Rules, including its Principles for Business (PRIN). Templeton 
Securities was providing regulated financial services and was bound by these Principles 
and other Rules. This is consistent with the accounts terms and conditions.
In British Bankers Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011] EWHC 
999 (Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood as the ever-present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be 
fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by 
the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having 
regard to the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever 
formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the 
argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the Principles which I think 
are relevant to this complaint. In my view they are Principles 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether in conducting this 
business Templeton Securities complied with these Principles. Ive considered the matter 
in the context of the wider circumstances as I have described in considering Templeton 
Securities obligations; that by 11 June 2014 Templeton had received at least fifteen e-
mails over a three week period with remarkably similarly worded execution only 
instructions, from different clients with SIPP accounts that it was being asked to process; in 
the same niche shares, and on non-mainstream markets, and sent to the same person.I think in these circumstances a stockbroker, acting reasonably, ought to have been 
alerted that something unusual and concerning might be going on. In my view, the 
circumstances ought to have been a trigger for Templeton Securities to intervene in the 
normal processing of the transaction, and take a closer look behind it.
If Templeton Securities had intervened and taken a closer look behind the instruction, it 
would have identified that they were coming from ordinary retail customers who:
had all recently opened advisory accounts and yet within a short period of time 
from opening were all sending execution only instructions to make their first 
investment;
were investing the majority of the money in their SIPP in the same niche 
shares presenting significant risks; they werent the type of investments that 
you would normally expect to form the significant part of anyones pension 
provision;
had sent almost identically technically worded instructions to invest in the same 
niche shares, suggesting these retail consumers may be being systematically 
advised by someone to buy these shares and on how to go about it.
And this was in the context that:
Only an FCA authorised firm was lawfully able to give investment advice. And a 
regulated firm giving investment advice would usually arrange the transactions 
themselves so as to charge dealing commission. It raised the possibility of serious 
malpractice if an unauthorised person was giving investment advice in breach of 
s19 of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The group of instructions to buy two niche shares, specifying particular days for 
settlement at particular prices, was highly unusual for seemingly unconnected retail 
customers. Including settlement details in their instructions was not only unusual, 
but served no obvious purpose from a pension investors point of view.
The possibility that the advice to buy the shares was coming from an unauthorized 
person was increased by the riskiness of concentrating pension funds in the shares 
of one or two small, obscure companies: an FCA-authorised firm would have 
regulatory obligations not to give unsuitable investment advice, and would be 
unlikely to find such shares a suitable pension investment for many (if any) of their 
clients, let alone a string of clients, and all at around the same time.
In my view, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Ms Hs instructions ought 
reasonably to have caused Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the transaction. If 
it had done so, and looked at the information it already had available through the account 
opening documentation, it would have seen that Ms H had said she had a modest income, 
£3,000 in savings and investments, and the £25,000 invested in the SIPP formed the 
majority of her net worth. Shed said her preferred level of risk was Medium/High, but 
experience wise, she was a novice investor in equities.
Her instructions to invest all her personal pension into two niche shares, presenting 
significant risks, was clearly at odds with her other financial provision, inconsistent with her 
being a novice investor in equities, with a likely limited understanding of the investments, 
and preferring a Medium/High level of risk. No details had been provided when in the 
section that asked if copy information should be sent to Ms Hs professional intermediary such as her Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), suggesting an IFA wasnt the source of 
the instructions.
Given these inconsistencies, I think Templeton Securities should have recognised that the
investments were clearly unsuitable for Ms H. And that Ms Hs placing of the manifestly 
unsuitable order wasnt the result of some idiosyncrasy of Ms H herself, because it had 
received a number of other very similar instructions within a short period of time and in 
similar circumstances. There was plainly likely to be a third party behind all the instructions.
So in this context, is it reasonable to think that Templeton Securities should have discovered 
that the source of the numerous and similarly worded instructions to buy the niche shares 
came from an unregulated source - Firm B?
Ive seen no persuasive evidence of any formal arrangement between Templeton 
Securities and either of Firm A or Firm B. However there is a Form of Authority for Firm B 
that was signed by Ms H and dated 9 May 2014. Such a form was on the majority of the 
complaints that have been referred to the Ombudsman Service.
I think there were clear warning signs in the existing information that Templeton Securities 
already had available to it. And on making further enquiries with Ms H and other clients 
directly, it would have become apparent that an unauthorised person was advising clients 
to invest in these shares and helping them to do so; giving investment advice and 
arranging deals in investments in breach of s19 of The Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000. I dont think Ms H or the other clients would have reason not to tell Templeton 
Securities who had recommended the transactions and Firm Bs role, if Templeton 
Securities had asked the question and pointed out the reasons for its concern.
In this context, I think Templeton Securities should have identified that Ms H and other 
clients were probably being given regulated investment advice by a firm which lacked 
authorisation to give the advice, and that Firm B was probably breaching the general 
prohibition under s.19. On making reasonable enquiries it would have discovered that the 
advice in Ms Hs case was wholly inconsistent with her circumstances and manifestly 
unsuitable for her pension fund, and that executing her instructions was entirely contrary 
to her best interests. In these circumstances I think it should have exercised its discretion 
to decline to accept the instruction.
So I dont think Templeton Securities met its obligations under Principles 2, 3 and 6. I think 
if it had conducted its business with skill care and diligence and took reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems, it should have identified the unusual pattern of execution only requests and 
intervened to take a closer look at the transaction. If it had done so, in the circumstances 
as I have described, I think it should have spotted the clear risks to Ms H, and, acting in 
her best interests, exercised its discretion to decline to accept her instruction.
Taking all the circumstances into account, I consider that Templeton Securities 
unreasonably accepted Ms Hs instruction when it had the opportunity and obligation to 
prevent the purchase of the shares.
Given that I think Templeton Securities failed to meet its regulatory obligations, I need to 
decide whether its failings caused the losses that Ms H has claimed. So Ive considered 
what Ms H would likely have done if Templeton Securities had declined to carry out her 
instruction.
Ms H had already transferred her money to the SIPP and switched her money into the 
advisory account with Templeton Securities. So if Templeton Securities had declined to accept the instruction Ms H would have had practical difficulties if she still wanted to buy 
the shares; she would have needed to find another broker and get the SIPP provider to 
open another account to enable her to do so.
Ms H has confirmed that she received a payment of £1,751 following the transaction, which
came from one of the unregulated firms  I understand Firm A.
I recognise the influence of the unregulated firms who appeared to be driving the 
transactions in the background. And that a payment could have been motivation for Ms H 
to want to continue to buy the same shares, irrespective of the actions of Templeton 
Securities and therefore the practical difficulties of doing so.
However I think its likely Ms H would have lost trust in the unregulated firm(s) if 
Templeton Securities, as a regulated firm, had said it wouldnt process her instruction 
and its reasons for not doing so.
When Ms H opened her account the documentation showed she had limited experience of 
investments, was a novice investor in equities and her preferred level of risk was 
Medium/High, which isnt consistent with an interest in these high-risk shares.
Given the significant risk of loss of the amount invested in the shares, just over £24,000, 
relative to the £1,751 payment; the practical difficulties of buying the shares if Templeton 
Securities had declined her instruction, and that Ms H had indicated her preferred level of 
risk was Medium/High, I think, on balance, its unlikely that Ms H would have invested in 
Emmit and Global had it not been for Templeton Securities failings.
Whilst I recognise the role of the two unregulated firms in the transaction, it was 
Templeton Securities that was authorised to provide regulated financial services and was 
bound by the obligations flowing from the Rules and Principles as I have outlined above. I 
think in the circumstances, the onus was on Templeton Securities to have recognised the 
clear possibility of detriment to Ms H, and it should have prevented her losses for the 
reasons I have given.
Templeton has said that it wrote to Ms H and notified her of the risks of the investment 
yet she decided to take no action to mitigate her position. Templetons letter to Ms H 
dated 11 September 2014 was about the Emmit shares only. It did say these shares 
were high risk, but it said Ms H should consider whether or not she felt they were 
appropriate for her.
Ms H was recoded as a novice investor in equities. I think she would reasonably have 
understood the shares were appropriate given she had been advised to buy them only three 
months earlier. Whilst this was by an unregulated firm, I think its unlikely she would have 
known the significance of this. I dont think there was an obligation for Ms H to have sold the 
shares or that she acted unreasonably in not selling them. And for the reasons Ive given, I 
dont think Ms H would have been invested in the shares but for Templetons shortcomings 
 in my view it should have identified there was an unregulated business involved and 
declined to process the investment instruction.
So I think Ms Hs losses flow from the failure of Templeton Securities to meet its regulatory 
obligations. And I think it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for Templeton 
Securities to pay compensation to Ms H for the losses that resulted from those failings.Applying sections 27 and 28 FSMA
For the sake of completeness, I have examined a separate basis upon which Templeton 
Securities may be responsible for the same losses. Ive considered the findings in the 
recent Court of Appeal case Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP. The court 
considered, amongst other things, the application of sections 27 and 28 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000.
In summary, s27 may apply where an authorised person makes an agreement with another
person in the course of carrying out a regulated activity, which was a consequence of
something said or done by an unregulated party acting in breach of the general prohibition 
(s19 of FSMA). S27 provides that an agreement to which it applies is unenforceable 
against the other party, and sets out what the other party can recover.
S28 of FSMA provides the court with the discretion to allow an agreement to which s.27 
applies to be in any event enforced, if it considers it is just and equitable to do so.
The relevant parts of section 27 and 28 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
provide:
27 Agreements made through unauthorised persons.
(1) This section applies to an agreement that 
(a) is made by an authorised person (the provider) in the course of carrying on a 
regulated activity,
(d) is made in consequence of something said or done by another person (the third 
party) in the course of
(i) a regulated activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the general 
prohibition,
(1A) An agreement to which this section applies is unenforceable against the other party.
(2) The other party is entitled to recover
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement; and
(b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted with 
it. 
(3)Agreement means an agreement
(a) made after this section comes into force; and
(b) the making or performance of which constitutes, or is part of, the regulated activity in
question carried on by the provider.
28 Agreements made unenforceable by section 26 or 27 [general cases].
(1) This section applies to an agreement which is unenforceable because of section 26 
or 27, other than an agreement entered into in the course of carrying on a credit-related 
regulated activity.
(2) The amount of compensation recoverable as a result of that section is
(a) the amount agreed by the parties; or
(b) on the application of either party, the amount determined by the court.
(3) If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the case, it 
may allow
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
(4) In considering whether to allow the agreement to be enforced or (as the case may be) 
the money or property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained the court 
must
(b) if the case arises as a result of section 27, have regard to the issue mentioned in 
subsection (6).(6) The issue is whether the provider knew that the third party was (in carrying on 
the regulated activity) contravening the general prohibition.
(7) If the person against whom the agreement is unenforceable
(a) elects not to perform the agreement, or
(b) as a result of this section, recovers money paid or other property transferred by him 
under the agreement, he must repay any money and return any other property received 
by him under the agreement.
(8) If property transferred under the agreement has passed to a third party, a reference in 
section 26 or 27 or this section to that property is to be read as a reference to its value at 
the time of its transfer under the agreement.
The Court of Appeal decided that s27 of FSMA applied in the circumstances of that case. 
So it went onto consider s28 (3) - would it be just and equitable, in the circumstances of 
the case, to allow the agreement to be enforced/ the money and property paid or 
transferred under the agreement to be retained. In deciding the matter s28 (4) required it 
to consider s28(6)  did the provider know the third party was contravening the general 
prohibition? It considered whether this meant actual knowledge of it or constructive 
knowledge. And decided it meant actual knowledge. It found that Carey didnt have actual 
knowledge. But then it went onto say:
Where a provider actually knew that the general prohibition was being breached, that 
must weigh heavily against use of the power conferred by section 28(3) of FSMA. If, on 
the other hand, a provider lacked such knowledge, it may still be appropriate to deny relief 
under section 28(3). And
Likewise, meeting the requirements of section 28(6) will not necessarily mean that relief 
should be granted. Amongst the factors that it may be proper to take into account is 
whether the provider should reasonably have known that the general prohibition was being 
contravened.
The court decided, on the particular facts of the case, not to exercise the discretion 
provided to it in s28. It didnt think it was just and equitable to grant Carey relief under 
section 28(3) of FSMA. It referred to the surrounding circumstances that it thought ought to 
have given reason for Carey to be concerned about the possibility of the unregulated firm 
arranging and advising on investments, even though it didnt in fact appreciate that the 
general prohibition was being contravened.
The court made the following comments:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own decisions, 
there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers from their own 
folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that Mr Adams caused his 
own losses and misled Carey; and
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so onto 
the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce agreements and 
being required to return money and other property and to pay compensation regardless of 
whether they had had knowledge of third parties contraventions of the general 
prohibition.
Ive considered Ms Hs complaint in light of the Courts findings. For s27 of FSMA to 
apply, an agreement must have been made by an authorised person (here, Templeton) in consequence of a contravention of the general prohibition by a third party (such as 
Firm B).
Given the facts of Ms Hs complaint and the surrounding circumstances as I have set out 
above, I think its most likely Firm B was breaching the general prohibition by arranging 
deals in and advising on investments  articles 25 and 53 of the Regulated Activities Order. 
And I think the advice and Firm Bs actions in providing Ms H with her draft purchase 
instruction clearly played a crucial part in Ms H buying the shares.
As I have explained, I think its hardly likely that so many ordinary retail clients would 
suddenly all unilaterally decide to invest in these little known niche shares at around the 
same time (even accepting Ms H ultimately invested in another share). So I think a court 
would find that s27 applies, and Ms H can (subject to s.28), recover the monies she invested 
through her agreement with Templeton Securities when it accepted her instructions to 
purchase the shares and the investment losses she sustained.
Ive therefore gone onto consider s28.
I think the overriding question is that set out in s.28(3); whether it would be just and equitable
in the circumstances of the case to allow enforcement of the agreement or retention of the
price paid. The significance of s.28(4) and (6) is to require the court to have regard to
whether the firm knew the third party was breaching the general prohibition. But as the Court
of Appeal emphasised, meeting the requirements of section 28(6) will not necessarily
mean that relief should be granted. So whilst it has to be taken into account, it doesnt make
that factor necessarily determinative.
Equally, the question of whether the firm should reasonably have known the general
prohibition was being breached is something that it may be proper to take into account, but
it is also not a determinative test, just a potentially relevant circumstance in some cases.
I think in deciding s28 (3) and what was just and equitable in Ms Hs case, the court would,
as it did in Adams v Options, look at all the circumstances in the round.
For the reasons I set out, I think Templeton Securities ignored several red flags that should
have reasonably alerted it that there was a strong possibility that its clients and Ms H were
being systematically put in harms way; being given the same seemingly irresponsible advice
by a common, unknown source. As I have said, I dont think Templeton Securities acted
reasonably when ignoring those signals of potential wrongdoing. And I think whilst the court
would take into account it may not have had actual knowledge of the breach, I think, looking
at the circumstances in the round, had it acted reasonably rather than ignore those clear
warnings it would have discovered the breach on making reasonably enquiries around it.
Taking all this into account, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to allow
Templeton relief under s28. And therefore Ms H could recover her money under s27.
Given the above, I said that my provisional decision was that I considered it was fair and 
reasonable to uphold Ms Hs complaint on either of the bases I had outlined; that is, that 
Templeton Securities had failed to meet its regulatory obligation under the Principles. And 
that it was likely a court would decide that Ms H could recover her money under s27. My 
provisional decision was that I upheld Ms Hs complaint. 
I went on to set out what I thought was fair compensation.
I then asked both parties to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me
to consider before I made my final decision.Alexander David Securities Limited responded to say, in summary that it thought the 
provisional decision missed fundamental issues and had failed to take fully into account:
Previous Financial Ombudsman Service rulings.
That the FCA had conducted a thorough investigation into TS Capital in regard to 
Eligere and Emmit including a full review of all telephone calls and e-mails. The FCA 
had dropped the investigation as it decided there was no case to answer. No wrong-
doing was found.
TS Capital had accepted and undertook the instruction for the transaction on an 
execution only basis. It hadnt agreed to provide advisory services as per clause 3.2 
in its terms and conditions. 
            
The trade instructions came via a regulated pension provider. The account was a 
trust account opened by a regulated SIPP provider. Ms H was the beneficiary with 
powers to undertake transactions. At the time of Ms Hs instruction, it wasnt 
unreasonable for TS Capital to accept the instruction and to conclude that it was an 
ordinary transaction(s) for investments listed on recognised exchanges.
The terminology in the instruction wasnt necessarily technical for someone who had 
previously made any direct stock market investment. The nature of the instruction 
wasnt in itself, or in a series, necessarily unusual, given the account was opened 
with it by a regulated firm and clients could and did obtain and undertake investment 
research through a variety of mediums. This included web and internet forums, tip 
services etc. At the point of the transaction it was unaware of any issues with the 
investments.
It became aware of general market concerns in September 2014, and acting 
reasonably it sent a letter to Ms H on 14 September 2014 to raise awareness as to 
the potential suitability of the transaction. It thought this was the date any fair and 
reasonable award should be calculated as Ms H had a duty to mitigate any loss. Ms 
H could have sold the shares before they were suspended, and not suffered the total 
loss that she did.
TS Capital wasnt aware of the payment of £1,750. It said this was a pension 
liberation attempt, and Ms Hs version of events surrounding the payment wasnt 
consistent with the known facts surrounding this issue as highlighted by the FCAs 
alert in October 2014. It said the key trigger of the scam was a promise of a 
cashback. It thought this was the motivation for Ms H to transfer and subsequently 
send specific instructions to buy the shares in question. It thought the ability to 
liberate some of her pension savings prior to the date she was allowed to access her 
pension was the most likely reason for the investments.
It didnt accept that relief should not be provided under s28 (3). It said the 
introduction(s) all came directly from a regulated pension provider, they were 
technically the account holder and Ms H a beneficiary. It didnt believe that it was 
unreasonable to undertake and accept the specific execution only instructions from 
Ms H or the other clients at that time. Or for TS Capital to be unaware that an 
unregulated entity was contravening the general prohibition at the point the 
instruction was received and the investment was made.
Ms H replied to say that she had nothing further to add.We asked Alexander David to provide further details about the investigation that it said had 
been carried out by the FCA. It sent a copy of a letter that the FCA had sent to Alexander 
David Securities dated 12 November 2014. The letter said the FCA had appointed 
investigators to conduct an investigation into whether offences under section 89 of the 
Financial Services Act 2012; and or behaviour amounting to market abuse as defined in 
section 118 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) may have occurred.
The letter went on to request various records from the firm relating to trades in Emmit Plc, 
along with other trading records from certain account holders and account documentation 
from certain SIPP providers.
Our investigator contacted the firm to say that I had looked at the FCAs letter dated 12 
November 2014 but I didnt think the letter changed my provisional decision, as the FCA 
were investigating a different matter. The investigator explained that we were investigating 
the specific complaint made by Ms H, and whether Templeton Securities (Alexander David) 
had met its obligations in its dealings with her. The investigator explained I would consider 
any further evidence or arguments about this issue if it could provide more details. 
No further evidence or arguments have been provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision to uphold Ms Hs
complaint.
In respect of the further evidence and arguments made by the firm:
The response to the provisional decision referred to TS Capital. The firm was trading 
as Templeton Securities Limited at the time of the event that the complaint is about.   
Ive taken the references to TS Capital as appropriately referring to Templeton 
Securities Limited at the relevant time.         
Alexander David has said my provisional decision didnt take into account previous 
Financial Ombudsman Service rulings. It didnt say which rulings, but it has 
previously referred to a case that was considered by one of our adjudicators. An 
adjudicators role is to try and resolve cases on an informal basis on the facts as they 
understood them. Im not bound by what an adjudicator decides, and Ive made my 
decision on the basis of what I consider are all the relevant circumstances to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
We asked Alexander David for further details about the FCAs investigation, but, 
other than the FCAs letter dated 12 November 2014 as referred to above, no further 
details were provided. As I set out above, I considered the contents of the letter, but 
didnt think it changed my provisional decision. My decision considers the firms 
obligation in its dealings with Ms H, including its obligations when she bought shares 
in Global Auto-Trade Group plc, which dont appear to be part of this particular FCA 
investigation. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I accept that Templeton Securities 
undertook the instruction for the transaction on an execution only basis. However I 
dont think Templeton Securities wider obligations were diluted because the 
regulated SIPP Provider was technically the account owner; this wasnt unusual, and 
the instruction to invest came directly from Ms H.  Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the SIPP provider was involved in the instructions to invest. 
I accept that the terminology in the instruction may not necessarily have been 
technical for someone who had previously made direct stock market investment. And 
that investors can obtain tips/do their own research from the variety of mediums 
mentioned by Templeton. So it might receive a number of orders for a particular 
investment at around the same time. But the situation here was that a series of e-
mails were all sent to the same specific person, with near identical technical wording, 
giving very specific instructions to invest in particular niche shares. I think this 
suggested there was likely to be a single source behind the instructions. And that its 
clients were being systematically advised by a third party to buy these shares, and on 
how to go about it. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I think the 
series of e-mails should have alerted Templeton Securities that something unusual 
might be going on, and ought to have been a trigger for it to intervene in the normal 
processing of Ms Hs instruction and take a closer look behind it. And having done so 
it would have identified the role of the unregulated firm(s).
The letter sent by Templeton Securities to Ms H was dated 11 September 2014 and 
was headed Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit. So it wasnt concerned 
with Ms Hs investment in the Global shares. For the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont think the content of the letter was such that Ms H ought 
to have sold the shares (in Emmit or Global), or that she acted unreasonably by not 
selling them. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to say that compensation should 
be calculated on the basis that Ms H should have sold her shares following receipt of 
the 11 September 2014 letter.
I accept the payment of £1,750 may not have been known to Templeton when it 
processed the instruction. I dont think this was a pension liberation attempt as such, 
but as I said in my provisional decision, I recognise that the unregulated firms were 
driving the transaction, and the cash sum of £1,750 would have been a motivating 
factor for Ms H. However I think irrespective of the motivation behind it, if Templeton 
Securities had intervened in the processing, and said it wouldnt process her 
instruction, Ms H would have had to re-assess her options. And for the reasons I set 
out in my provisional decision, I dont think she would have gone on to invest in 
Global or Emmit. 
For the reasons I have set out above and in my provisional decision, I think 
Templeton Securities ought to have been alerted there was something unusual going 
on, and made further enquiries about the investment instructions. And on doing so it 
would have identified it was likely an unregulated firm was breaching the general 
prohibition. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think a court 
would find it was just and equitable to allow Templeton Securities relief under s28 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. And find that Ms H could recover her 
money under s27. 
Putting things right
fair compensation 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms H as close as possible to 
the position she would probably now be in if Templeton Securities had not agreed to 
purchase the shares for Ms Hs account. If it had done so I think Ms H, having already completed the switch of her pension to the 
SIPP, would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she would have 
done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms Hs 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.
what should Alexander David Securities Limited do?
To compensate Ms H fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Compare the performance of Ms H's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Ms H's pension plan, 
to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David 
Securities Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Ms H's pension 
plan, it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms H's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. 
I think Ms H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age. So the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms H would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should:
 Pay Ms H £300 for the distress and inconvenience the loss of her pension benefits 
has caused her.
Provide details of the calculation to Ms H in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms H how much it has taken off. It should also 
give Ms H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. investmentBenchmarkfrom
(start date)           to
(end date)additional 
interest
The amounts 
invested in 
Global 
(£12,226) and 
Emmit 
(£11,881)  
including 
charges, less 
a deduction 
of £1,751  
divided 
equally - so 
£875.50 from 
each.FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;The date 
of 
purchase 
of each  
shareDate of this 
final 
decision8% simple a
year from date
of this final decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Ms Hs 
acceptance of
this decision
The deduction of £1,751 reflects the payment that was made to Ms H and which she has 
had use of. 
actual value 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the 
open (market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David 
Securities Limited should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider.
This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual value
should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Limited may wish to require that Ms H provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount she may receive from the investments in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Alexander David Securities Limited will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investments would have been worth at the end date had they produced a 
return using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I dont know exactly how Ms H would have invested. Ms H had indicated she was willing to 
take a medium/high degree of risk. But it appears this was largely driven by Firm B. Ms H had already switched her money to the pension. I think if Templeton had refused to accept 
Ms Hs instructions she could have sought suitable advice from it on how to invest her 
pension. Given her particular circumstances, I think she would have been advised to 
invest at medium risk  at most.
I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable 
proxy for the degree of risk I think its likely that Ms H would have been recommended and 
she would have agreed to take.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
I think it is fair and reasonable to uphold Ms Hs complaint on either of the bases I have
outlined above; that is, that Templeton Securities failed to meet its regulatory obligation
under the Principles. And that its likely a court would decide that Ms H could recover her
money under s27.
Accordingly, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to Ms H as I have 
set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman