complaint
Mr S complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) hasnt paid his travel insurance 
claim in full. 
background
In December 2018, Mr S booked a trip for March 2019. At the same time, he took out a 
single-trip travel insurance policy. 
Unfortunately, in February 2019, Mr S became ill and was admitted to hospital. In March 
2019, he cancelled his trip and submitted a cancellation claim. 
ERV accepted the claim, but said Mr S had been advised by his GP on 15 February 2019 to 
cancel his trip. It said if hed cancelled his trip at that point, his cancellation charge wouldve 
been £1,920. As hed delayed cancellation, the charge had increased. ERV said it would 
therefore pay him £1,920 under the claim. Unhappy with this, Mr S brought a complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought ERVs decision 
was reasonable, based on the information provided by Mr Ss GP. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matters been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy explains that if the insureds health changes after purchasing the policy (such as 
receiving inpatient treatment) then they should contact ERV where specific questions will be 
asked about their condition. It then says: 
This may result in an additional premium to allow cover to continue, to add additional Terms 
and Conditions to your policy or to exclude cover for the newly diagnosed condition or for the 
condition that has undergone significant change. 
If we are unable to continue to provide cover, or if you do not wish to pay the additional 
premium you will be entitled to make a claim under Section 1 (Cancellation) for costs which 
cannot be recovered elsewhere for trips booked prior to the change in health. 
Alternatively, you will be entitled to cancel your policy, in which case, we will refund a 
proportionate amount of your premium.
DRN-1984385Please note that your doctor, or consultant telling you that you are well enough to travel does 
not mean that you will be covered for your pre-existing medical condition(s)
Mr S has diabetes. He told ERV about this condition (amongst others) when taking out the 
policy, and was accepted for cover. He then collapsed at home (thought to be caused a 
diabetic hypo), and was taken to A&E. 
After Mr S cancelled his trip, his GP completed a claim form. She confirmed that Mr S was 
admitted to hospital on 13 February 2019 (though I note the hospital discharge report refers 
to his admission date as being 11 February 2019), and also said shed advised Mr S on 15 
February 2019 to cancel his holiday.
Mr S says that his GP didnt advise him to cancel his trip, and instead referred him to a 
specialist. He says that specialist told him that it was up to him if he wanted to cancel his trip. 
He decided at this time to go ahead with the trip. However, Mr S then had a relapse on 9 
March and decided at that point to cancel his trip. Hes provided a letter from his specialist 
which says that Mr S decided to cancel his trip after his relapse. 
Mr S decided not to cancel his trip after his hospital admission. However, under the policy, 
because Mr S had been admitted to hospital, he was required to tell ERV thered been a 
change to his health. The crucial point therefore, isnt whether Mr S felt able to travel or not, 
its what ERV would have done, had it known of Mr Ss change of health. 
ERV hasnt said what it would have done based on the hospital admission alone, but it says 
if it had known Mr Ss GP had advised him not to travel, it would no longer have covered 
him. That seems appropriate, given the policy only provides cover if the insured is NOT 
travelling against the advice of a doctor 
If Mr S had called ERV about his change in health after being discharged from hospital but 
before his GP had advised him not to travel, Id expect ERV to provide evidence to show it 
wouldnt have covered Mr Ss condition based on his hospital admission alone. However, 
given that Mr Ss GP advised him not to travel within a few days of him being discharged 
from hospital (and Mr S still didnt tell ERV about his change of health), I think it was 
reasonable for ERV to take this into account when making its claims decision. 
Whilst Ive noted Mr Ss explanation that his GP didnt advise him not to travel, he hasnt 
provided any evidence to support this. I therefore think it was reasonable for ERV to rely on 
the claim form completed by Mr Ss GP, which says she advised him not to travel on 15 
February 2019.
In cases such as this, this service will usually require an insurer to pay a cancellation claim 
as if the consumer had told the insurer about their change in health. And we usually say that 
claim should be based on the cancellation claim amount at the time the consumer ought to 
have told the insurer about their change in health. 
If Mr S had told ERV of his change in health soon after his hospital admission, the 
cancellation charge would have been 50%, and this is what ERVs settlement has been 
based upon. Consequently, Im satisfied that the settlement ERV has paid for the claim was 
appropriate and in line with its policy terms. 
Mr S is also unhappy that ERV wouldnt pay the cancellation costs for his travelling 
companion. He makes the point that he took out the policy in his own name as he had 
booked the trip and was paying for it, and so any financial loss was his in the event of a 
claim. As the investigator has explained, the policy only covered Mr S for non-refundable amounts 
paid for his travel and accommodation, and therefore didnt cover Mr Ss travelling 
companions travel and accommodation costs - regardless of the fact that Mr S made the 
booking and paid for the trip. 
Although Mr S says he wouldnt have made a claim under his own insurance if his travelling 
companion had been taken ill, the policy covers cancellation if he or a travelling companion 
suffers unforeseen illness. He therefore would have been able to claim for his portion of the 
cancellation costs if his travelling companion had been taken ill, rather than him. 
Overall, whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr S, Im satisfied ERV has settled the 
claim correctly and in line with its policy terms. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman