DRN-3717737
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) didnt treat her fairly 
when it terminated her hire purchase agreement.
Mrs D has brought her complaint via a representative but for clarity I will generally refer 
to her throughout.
What happened
In January 2018 BMF entered into a hire-purchase agreement with Mrs D, through an 
intermediary, in order for her to acquire a car. The cash price of the car was £12,500. 
The agreement was for a total of £21,128.75 including interest and charges, which was 
to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £343.75, and a final payment of £393.75.
The credit to buy the car was granted by BMF under a hire purchase agreement 
meaning Mrs D would own the car when the credit had been repaid. BMF was the 
owner until that point and Mrs D was, in essence, paying for the use of it.
Mrs D made her payments on time until October 2018 when a direct debit payment was 
returned. She made this payment a few days later by card. This happened again in March 
and July 2019. Mrs D continued to miss payments throughout 2020, each time catching up 
by direct debit again within weeks. However, Mrs Ds direct debit payments were returned 
and remained unpaid from October 2020 to May 2021. Mrs D resumed her payments in 
June 2021 having missed eight payments. She then missed payments towards the end of 
2021 and into 2022. I understand that by mid-July 2022 Mrs D had missed 14 payments in 
total.
Mrs D had requested a three month payment holiday on 13 October 2020. She 
explained that her income had been impacted by the pandemic and she would be able 
to resume her payments in January 2021. By this point her direct debit payment for 
October had been returned. On 6 November 2020 BMF sent Mrs D a notice of default 
and it terminated her agreement on 26 November.
In February 2021, BMF asked Mrs D to get in touch with its specialist Covid response 
team to better understand your situation and tailor a solution to your needs. It seems 
Mrs D didnt get in touch. In March BMF sent Mrs D a letter outlining her options which 
were to surrender the car with a reduction in the total balance owing or come to a 
suitable arrangement to repay the arrears. Mrs D wasnt happy with these options and 
made a complaint to us, which we passed on to BMF. BMF wrote to Mrs D in May 2021 
saying it couldnt investigate her complaint because it couldnt get in touch with her and it 
closed her complaint. As mentioned, Mrs D resumed her payments in June.
By February 2022, one of our investigators had looked into Mrs Ds complaint and didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. They found that BMF hadnt treated Mrs D unfairly when it 
didnt allow her to defer her payments or when it terminated her agreement. Mrs D didnt 
agree with this conclusion and asked for her complaint to come to an ombudsman for 
review and so it came to me.
BMF told us on 1 June of this year that it would be willing to allow an extra six months 
beyond what would have been the end of the agreement to allow Mrs D more time to pay 
what is owed however, Mrs D had now missed 12 payments. BMF said that Mrs D would 
either need to increase her usual monthly payment in order to pay the missed payments 
over the extended time (to the end of August 2023) or clear the outstanding payments 
with a lump sum to continue with her usual monthly payment. In either case, BMF said it 
would need to speak with Mrs D to understand if this would be affordable for her, given 
she hadnt been able to maintain her usual monthly repayments.
Mrs D said in response that she wished to reinstate the agreement to enable her to keep 
the car at the end of it. She would like to continue with her usual monthly payment and 
extend the agreement term to enable her to repay the missed payments at the same 
level.
Despite both parties indicating their willingness to discuss the account, I understood that 
no discussion had taken place, prior to my sending out a provisional decision on the 
1 September 2022. In this I explained why I thought Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld 
and set out my proposals for putting things right for her. This included reinstating the 
agreement and extending the term. 
Mrs D responded to say that she had made her usual direct debit payments in August 
and September just gone. She says that she doesnt see these payments as being a 
problem but rather being able to clear the arears in a reasonable time. She asked that 
the agreement end date is extended further so that she would be able to clear her 
balance and arrears by continuing to make the usual monthly payment amount of 
£343.75. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including what both parties have said in response 
to my correspondence, I remain of the view that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld and 
that the proposals for putting things right set out in my provisional decision are fair. I 
have set out my reasons again in this final decision and referred to the parties responses 
where appropriate. 
I said the following in my provisional decision:
I have taken into account the law and relevant regulatory rules. These include, for 
example, the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Handbook (CONC) 
which sets out its regulations and guidance for lenders such as BMF about what should 
happen before and during credit agreements. Ive also borne in mind more recent 
guidance issued by the FCA from April 2020 onwards which set out how it expected 
businesses to provide exceptional and immediate support to customers in motor finance 
agreements facing temporary payment difficulties because of coronavirus.
All guidance is available on the FCAs website so I wont set it out in detail here. In 
summary, BMFs overarching obligations (ref. PRIN 2) are to:
Pay due regard to their customers interests and treat them fairly.
Pay due regard to their customers information needs and communicate 
information in a way that is clear, fair, and not mis-leading.In general, BMF should treat customers in arrears or payment difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration (ref. CONC 7). It should:
Allow customers reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt. This 
might include deferring arrears, as long as this doesnt make the term for the 
repayments
unreasonably excessive and as long as BMF has no reason to believe that 
doing so will increase the total amount payable to be unsustainable or 
otherwise cause a customer to be in financial difficulties.
From April 2020 to 31 July 2021, if customers were having difficulty meeting repayments 
due to the impact of the pandemic, BMF:
Should grant customers a payment deferral for three months unless it was 
obviously not in their customer interests to do so.
Didnt need to make enquiries with customers in order to agree a deferral.
Could provide further deferrals up to a maximum of six deferrals in total.
Should not terminate a regulated agreement (before January 2021) 
regardless of whether or not a customer was receiving support under the 
guidance, except in exceptional circumstances.
Should make all reasonable attempts to contact their customers to find out 
whether they could resume full payments at the end of any deferral period  it 
could proceed on the basis that they could do so if they didnt respond.
Allow customers to defer the payment of arrears (built up due to deferrals) if 
they were unable to pay them during the original agreement term by 
lengthening the term of the agreement. This could be either by the deferral 
period or by a period of time that enables them to keep the same contractual 
payments they had prior to the payment deferrals.
Bearing all this in mind, I think the main questions I need to consider are did BMF treat 
Mrs D fairly in its dealings with her, for example when she asked for a payment deferral, 
when it terminated her agreement, or when she continued to miss her payments? Did 
BMF provide Mrs D with clear, fair and not misleading information and, ultimately, did it 
pay due regard to her interests and treat her fairly?
What happened
Mrs D has sent us copies of correspondence shes had with BMF and it has sent 
customer contact notes and a statement of her account. Ive set out below a timeline 
based on these different sources of information so both parties know what Ive relied on.
At the end of September 2020 Mrs Ds account was up to date. Her direct debit payment 
for October was returned on the 6th of the month.
13/10/2020 Mrs D asked for a three month deferral and explained how shed been
impacted by the pandemic.
13/10/2020 Mrs D was advised that her request had been forwarded to the relevant
department.
13/10/2020 Mrs D was sent the following: . In order for us to understand if a 
payment deferral is the right option for you, please complete our form on 
the following link: [-] We will get back to you within 7-10 working days 
following the receipt of your request.
15/10/2020 Email, text and phone messages were sent to Mrs D asking for urgent 
contact and the contact details given are for the collections department.
19/10/2020 As above.
26/10/2020 An internal BMF note says awaiting outcome of payment deferral request.
06/11/2022 Mrs D direct debit payment for November was returned.
06/11/2020 A Notice of Sums in Arrears (NOSIA) and a Default letter were sent to 
Mrs D.
26/11/2020 The agreement was terminated and a letter sent to Mrs D.
17/02/2021 BMF sent an email to Mrs D: "Dear Mrs [D], Good morning, We have 
tried to contact you in reference to your blue motor finance agreement. 
your account has recently been passed to the specialist Covid response 
team. Please contact us on [-] so we can better understand your 
situation and tailor a solution to your needs. Specialist Support Team T: 
[-] E: [-] ".
21/02/2021 Mrs D responded with an email to say that she thought she would be 
able to work again within weeks and asked What is the tailored solution 
that your Specialist Support Team suggests for me?
23/02/2021 Mrs D sent a follow-up to the above email.
24/02/2021 BMF requested that Mrs D contact them on the specialist team 
telephone number.
25/02/2021 Mrs D said she would be in touch.
02/03/2021 BMF sent Mrs D a letter with an option to voluntarily surrender 
possession of the car and pay a reduced balance, or else agree an 
appropriate repayment plan for the arrears.
09/03/2021 Mrs D raised a complaint with us, which we referred to BMF to provide a 
response in the first instance.
10/05/2021 BMF sent Mrs D a final response to her complaint and closed it. 
4/06/2021 Mrs D resumed her usual monthly payments.
07/07/2021 BMF told Mrs D it required a repayment plan to avoid a return of goods 
order. 
15/07/2021 BMF sent a follow-up email to ask how Mrs D wished to proceed to 
avoid collections activity.
23/07/2021 BMF sent a follow-up.
28/07/2021 BMF said again that it required a repayment plan to avoid a return of 
goods order.
23/09/2021 BMFs collections agent sent a letter stating it would visit Mrs D unless 
she made a payment towards her arrears.
01/10/2021 BMF apologised to Mrs D for passing her account to its collections 
agent for a visit. It said that this was a mistake and thanked her for 
continuing to make her payments under the agreement while the 
investigation (with this service) into her complaint was ongoing.
My conclusions
I dont think BMF provided immediate and exceptional support to Mrs D when she told it 
that her income had been temporarily impacted by the pandemic and she was having 
problems with cash flow. It should have dealt with Mrs Ds missed payments in October 
and November 2020 as deferred payments, and not as arrears.
BMF didnt provide Mrs D with clear, fair and not misleading information about what was 
happening with her account after she made her request for a payment deferral. I 
appreciate that it sent Mrs D notice about her arrears and told her it had defaulted her 
account but Mrs D had received these types of letters before and hadnt yet been told 
what was happening with her deferral request.
The guidance stated that Where a firm is required to send information to customers 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, such as a Notice of Sums in Arrears (NOSIA), and 
the firm, acting reasonably, considers this risks causing confusion for the customer due to the interaction with the payment deferral, the firm must accompany this with 
contextual information to reduce that risk. This information should be clear, fair and not 
misleading in accordance with Principle 7. I cant see that BMF provided any context to 
these letters, as per the guidance, or let Mrs D know what was happening with her 
deferral request until several months later.
BMF continued with its usual collections activity and defaulted Mrs Ds account when she 
missed her payments in October and November 2020 and then terminated the account 
before the December payment was due. BMF could have been more flexible regarding 
its collections activity and not exercised its rights under the agreement, given the 
circumstances. The guidance is clear that terminating an agreement during this time 
should only happen by exception. Ive concluded that BMF treated Mrs D unfairly and 
without due regard to her interests when it terminated her agreement.
BMF noted in its internal records towards the end of April 2021 that it should have agreed 
to Mrs Ds request and deferred her payments for October, November and December 
2020. It also noted that it should have made more of an effort to contact her before 
February 2021, by which point Mrs D had missed five payments.
The maximum number of payment deferrals allowed under the guidance was six. Had 
BMF granted Mrs D this number (October 2020 to March 2021) she would have had to 
resume her repayments in April 2021. BMF gave Mrs D two options in early March  
either return the car to be eligible for a reduction in the total amount owing or agree a 
repayment plan for the outstanding amounts. I cant see that at that point BMF gave Mrs D 
the option of deferring the payment for the missed months by, for example, extending the 
amount of time over which she could repay these beyond the original end date. Neither 
did it remind her that she had the option to voluntarily terminate the agreement and return 
the car, which would leave her liable for half the amount owing under the agreement.
Mrs D didnt make her payments for March, April or May 2021. BMF sent Mrs D a final 
response to her complaint on 10 May 2021 in which it said it needed more information 
from her to investigate her complaint and so it considered it closed. The statement of 
account shows that Mrs D resumed her monthly payments in June 2021. Shed missed 
eight payments by then and her arrears balance was £2,750.
Let me say at this point that BMF has sent many emails, text messages and letters to Mrs 
D asking her to get in touch to discuss her account but she has declined to make contact.
Mrs D did tell BMF on a number of occasions that English isnt her first language and 
that she prefers written communication. It may be that this was a factor in her lack of 
telephone communication however, Mrs D brought her complaint to us through a 
representative so I consider that she has support for her information needs to enable 
her to deal with her financial affairs.
When Mrs D complained in March 2021, she asked for the agreement to be reinstated 
and to resume payments as per the request shed made in October 2020, in other words 
to continue making her usual monthly repayments. Had that request been granted at the 
point when Mrs D had missed six or even eight months of payments, then this might 
have been one way to have resolved the matter.
However, events have moved on since BMF gave Mrs D its final response to her 
complaint. Mrs D missed her October and November 2021 payments. I understand that 
she made payments in January, February and March of 2022 but hasnt made a payment 
since then. This amounts to an additional six missed payments, and so as of mid-July 
2022 Mrs D had missed 14 payments. BMF has not taken any action beyond instructing 
its collections agent to organise a home visit, which I understand didnt happen and it has apologised.
As part of my review of this complaint, I asked both parties to clarify what they wanted to 
happen now to resolve the complaint. Mrs D said that she wanted the agreement to be 
reinstated, to continue making her usual contractual repayments and to extend the term 
to allow her to clear her missed payments on this basis and take possession of the car.
BMF says that it will not extend an arrangement to clear the amount owing beyond six 
months or reinstate the agreement. It says that Mrs D can either make a lump sum 
payment to clear the missed payments and continue with her usual monthly payment until 
August 2023 or pay an increased sum each month in order to clear the total owing by 
then. BMF says that in order to consider these options it would need to understand how 
Mrs D could manage either a lump sum payment or an increased monthly instalment.
My proposed redress
As Ive provisionally concluded that BMF shouldnt have terminated Mrs Ds 
agreement when it did, it needs to reinstate this.
Having considered everything carefully, I think allowing Mrs D to continue to repay her 
debt at the level of her usual instalment would require an excessive extension to the 
original agreement as this would mean allowing Mrs D more than a years extension to 
clear the amount now owing. I dont think it would be excessive to extend the original end 
date of the agreement by eight months as Mrs D missed eight payments from October 
2020 to May 2021 which I currently think should fairly be considered as deferrals not 
arrears. (I appreciate that the deferral guidance referred to six payments but BMF could 
also accept deferred payments as a forbearance response.)
Payments missed after July 2021 should be treated as arrears. Mrs D hasnt been 
making her usual monthly payments and hasnt been in touch with BMF, as far as Im 
aware, about these missed payments. I think its reasonable for BMF to have doubts as 
to the sustainability of any repayment arrangement for her to repay these.
BMF needs to allow Mrs D a reasonable period of time to develop a repayment plan, 
which might include a lump sum payment. As per CONC 7 this should generally be for 30 
days where there is evidence of a genuine intention to develop a plan. BMF can consider 
extending this for a further 30 days where there is reasonable evidence demonstrating 
progress towards agreeing a plan. I appreciate that some time has passed since Mrs D 
began to miss payments after the 31 July 2021, however the debt was in dispute during 
that time and BMF was right to suspend its collections activity.
I think the fairest thing to do now is allow Mrs D 30 days from her acceptance of a 
final decision on this complaint to either clear her (post-July 2021) arrears or satisfy 
BMF that doing so over the course of the extended agreement would be sustainable 
for her.
In summary, I currently think BMF needs to:
reinstate the hire purchase agreement with Mrs D with an end date 
extended by eight months; and
allow 30 days from Mrs Ds acceptance of a final decision in which to 
agree a sustainable arrangement for her to clear the arrears built up after 
31 July 2021 within the extended term; and
remove any adverse information on Mrs D credit file regarding payments missedbefore 31 July 2021.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs D said that she had resumed her monthly 
payments. She reiterated that she wishes to have a longer period of time to enable her to 
repay her arrears at this level until the total amount owing under the agreement is repaid. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, given the number of payments Mrs D has missed, 
the agreement would need to be extended by more than a year to enable her to clear this 
debt by continuing with her usual monthly payments. I think its fair that the agreement is 
extended to enable Mrs D to catch up with her payments which should have been 
considered as deferrals. This seems to me to go as far as is reasonable to put Mrs D back 
into the position she would have been in, had BMF treated her fairly when she asked for 
help in dealing with the impact of the pandemic. 
I appreciate that Mrs D now has an additional six months payments to catch up with. If she 
accepts my decision she and BMF will need to discuss how these arrears can be 
sustainably repaid. If Mrs D is unable to meet her arrears payments sustainably within this 
extended term then BMF should have regard to CONC 7, which sets out rules and 
guidance for business in their dealings with customers regarding arrears, defaults, 
recoveries and repossessions. BMF will be aware it needs to treat Mrs D with forbearance 
and due consideration. 
Putting things right
In summary, BMF needs to:
reinstate the hire purchase agreement with Mrs D with an end date 
extended by eight months; and
allow 30 days from Mrs Ds acceptance of a final decision in which to 
agree a sustainable arrangement for her to clear the arrears built up after 
31 July 2021 within the extended term; and
remove any adverse information on Mrs D credit file regarding payments missed
before 31 July 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am upholding Mrs Ds complaint about Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd and it now needs to take the above steps to put things right for her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman