DRN-3967215
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel 
insurance claim. 
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So, I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out 
rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS).  ICOBS 8.1.1 says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of their customers, and that they 
should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Mr M and Mrs M submitted a claim for the cost of an additional nights 
accommodation as their flight was cancelled. UKI declined the claim and said the 
event that led to the cancellation wasnt covered under their travel policy.
Ive looked at the delayed and missed departure section of Mr M and Mrs Ms policy. 
This states there is no cover for any claim where the aircraft on which they were 
booked was cancelled by the operator. And there are no other sections of the policy 
that apply in the circumstances of their complaint. Additionally, Mr M and Mrs M 
didnt miss their flight from the UK. 
I understand that Mr M and Mrs M say UKI informed them they would be covered for 
the costs they incurred. They were told in a telephone call that they had up to £1,000 
per person in the event of a cancelled flight. I appreciate its now disappointing to be 
told that they dont actually have cover for what happened. But Ive also thought 
about what would have happened had the call not taken place. The flight was 
cancelled so it was likely Mr M and Mrs M had to find alternative accommodation for 
them and their family. So looking at it either way, they would not have been covered 
for what happened for the cost of the accommodation and any additional related 
costs. 
Taking all of this into account, I agree the information given in the call was incorrect. 
This was an error on UKIs part, and I realise Mr M and Mrs M would have potentially 
found cheaper accommodation or stayed the night in the airport. However, I think 
£125 compensation offered by UKI for its failing in this regard is fair and reasonable.  
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask UKI to accept the claim or increase the 
compensation amount. It follows that I dont require UKI to do anything further. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint about U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman