DRN-3250989
The complaint
Mr D complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a lease agreement with 
MBFS. At the end of the lease the car was inspected and collected, following which MBFS 
asked Mr D to pay charges for damage.
Mr D disputed the charges. He felt that the damage was within acceptable wear and tear and 
that some of the damage wasnt present when the car was collected.
MBFS responded and partially upheld Mr Ds complaint. It agreed that some of the damage 
(RHR wheel) was within acceptable wear and tear but said the rest of the damage charges 
had been correctly applied.
Mr D wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She reviewed all of the photos and said she 
was satisfied that the damage fell outside of the guidelines. She said it was likely that the 
damage was caused when the car was in Mr Ds possession, and not in the short time 
between the first and second inspections.
Mr D didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr D must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds acceptable wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards which set out what is considered acceptable 
wear and tear.
Ive looked at the intentions pack which was provided to Mr D at the start of the agreement. 
This says that the car must be returned in line with the vehicle returns standards. It also says 
that the car will be inspected with reference to the vehicle returns standards, and that there 
may be circumstances where a second inspection is necessary.
Ive looked at the inspection report, including the photographs. This identifies damage to the 
wheels, a dent in the LHR door, a dent in the RHR Quarter panel and a hole in the load area. 
Looking at the damage identified, and having regard to the relevant guidelines, Im satisfied 
that it exceeds acceptable wear and tear. So, I think MBFS has applied the charges fairly.
Ive taken into account what Mr D has said about some of the damage not being present at 
the first inspection. Hes said that the damage was caused in between the first and second 
inspections. The second inspection was carried out four days after the first inspection. 
During this time, the car covered 91 miles. MBFS has said that its collection agent stated 
that no damage occurred after the car was collected. Taking everything into consideration, I 
think its more likely that the damage occurred during the two years that the car was in Mr Ds 
possession, as opposed to the four days between the first and second inspections.
Mr D has said that he arranged for repairs to the car before it was inspected. Hes provided 
some receipts. But this doesnt change my decision. Even if Mr D had repairs carried out 
before the inspection, the inspection still found damage which was outside of acceptable 
wear and tear.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint. I wont be asking MBFS to 
waive any of the charges. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman