DRN-3581320
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled a 
claim made on his home insurance. 
What happened
Mr E made a claim on his household insurance for storm damage to his garage. 
LV inspected the damage but wrote to Mr E declining the claim. It said thered been no 
storm when the damage occurred and that the damage happened because of debris outside 
the garage pushing against one of its walls. LV said Mr E told it that the debris had been 
there for a number of years and that he hadnt maintained the garage since hed moved in. 
LV said as well that the main case of the damage was not a storm, but the garages poor 
condition, its age and lack of maintenance. 
Mr E complained. He felt LV was calling him a liar by declining his claim. He said there had 
been a storm and that the debris had been down the side of his garage for years on land 
that wasnt his. LV said it wasnt its intent to insult Mr E and apologised. Mr E questioned 
how he would be able to maintain his garage when it contained asbestos.
LV issued its final response letter to Mr Es complaint. It said there had been storm 
conditions at the time of the damage and apologised for saying there wasnt. But it said the 
damage to Mr Es garage occurred gradually and so wasnt covered by his policy. And that 
Mr Es garage showed a lack of maintenance when it was a condition of his policy to keep 
his property in a good condition. It said that if hes unsure how to do this, he should contact 
a specialist for advice. 
Mr E contacted LV about the letter declining his claim being wrong about the storm. LV told 
Mr E that this didnt alter the fact that the storm didnt damage the garage. Mr E said the 
garage didnt need maintenance as its in good condition and hes not done anything to it in a 
number of years. 
Mr E brought his complaint to us. He was unhappy LV had declined his claim for storm 
damage and said that the debris LV mentioned wasnt on his land and so he wasnt able to 
access it. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. He said it was reasonable for LV to rely on 
its adjusters report and decide that the main cause of the damage wasnt the storm and so 
wouldnt be covered under the terms of Mr Es policy.
Mr E disagreed with our investigators view. He said that LV had first said there was no 
storm when thered been three. He said his garage had been in the same condition since 
2001 and if that meant his garage wouldnt have been insured since then, he wanted his 
premiums back.  He said LV were using a lack of maintenance as an excuse. And that the 
surveyors report didnt mention that thered been flooding when the surveyor said hed 
mention this in his report. 
Mr E asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its no longer in dispute that there was a storm around the time Mr E says that damage 
occurred to his garage. So Ive considered whether the damage Mr E says his garage has 
suffered is consistent with storm damage.
Ive reviewed the photos LV took of Mr Es garage. The photos show a deep crack in one of 
the garages walls and vegetation growing both on the outside and the inside of the garages 
roof. The photos also show large gaps around the garage doors and debris against the 
outside of one of the garage walls. So I dont think LVs expert was being unreasonable in 
concluding that the cause of the damage was gradual wear and tear, poor maintenance and 
debris piled up against one of the garage walls, causing it to crack. 
LVs conclusion about the cause of the damage was reached by one of LVs experts. So for 
me to be able to say - on balance - that these conclusions are wrong, Id need to see a 
report from another expert saying the main cause of the damage was a storm. Mr E was 
invited to provide this service with his own experts report into the cause of the damage, but 
he declined to do so. So Ive not seen an experts report saying that the main cause of the 
damage was a storm. And I cant then say that LVs conclusions about the cause of the 
damage are wrong. 
And because I think the damage to Mr Es garage was caused by wear and tear  which isnt 
covered under the terms of his policy with LV  - and not a storm, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
require LV to pay Mr Ws claim for damage to his garage.
Mr E said the garage also flooded and that LV didnt note this in its report. There is no record 
of the conversation that Mr E had with LVs expert about a flood, so I cant say on balance 
that LV has done anything wrong by not mentioning this in its report. Mr E also said that the 
debris down the side of his garage is not on his land. But Mr Es claim was for storm damage 
and not for the effects of the debris or for flood damage. If Mr E wishes to make further 
claims regarding flooding or the debris, he is free to contact LV in the first instance. 
So for the reasons above, I cant say LV has been unfair or unreasonable in declining Mr Es 
claim for storm damage.  So I shall not be upholding Mr Es complaint or requiring LV to do 
anything further here.  Mr E said he felt that LV should return his premiums. But I dont think 
this is fair or reasonable because not only do I think LV has acted fairly and reasonably, but 
Mr Es policy has offered him cover for more than just his garage and for risks other than 
storm damage. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Es complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman