DRN-2291026
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy that Simplyhealth Access declined a claim she made on her health 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms K has a health insurance policy with Simplyhealth which includes some cash benefits  
her husband and children are beneficiaries of the policy. Ms K claimed on the policy for 
travel vaccinations. Simplyhealth declined the claim. 
Ms K complained to Simplyhealth. In their final response letter they said that because the 
type of jabs Ms K and her family received werent flu jabs they werent covered under the 
policy. However, they offered £50 compensation as Ms K had unnecessarily spent time and 
effort confirming that the jabs had been administered by a registered pharmacist. Unhappy, 
Ms K complained to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought Ms K had been told that travel 
vaccinations would be covered and it wasnt made clear to her that they would need to be 
done by a registered GP or nurse. He recommended Simplyhealth pay a further £25 
compensation and £150 to cover Ms K and her husbands jabs. As the children had already 
used their maximum allowance for other vaccinations he didnt think Simplyhealth needed to 
pay for their jabs. Simplyhealth didnt agree because they said the policy terms didnt cover 
the vaccinations. So I need to make a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Simplyhealth has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say that it covers: 
Fees for vaccinations and inoculations from a registered GP or nurse 
Fees for flu vaccinations from a registered GP, nurse or pharmacist.
The policy will pay out £75 per adult policyholder each year and a total of £75 between the 
two children. The crux of this complaint is that, whilst Ms K and her familys vaccinations 
were completed by a registered pharmacist, they werent flu vaccinations.  
I agree that applying the policy terms there isnt cover for travel vaccinations completed by a 
pharmacist. But, in the particular circumstances of this case Im upholding Ms Ks complaint 
because I think its fair and reasonable to do so. I say that because: 
Ms K spoke to Simplyhealth in February 2019 in relation to claiming vaccinations. 
During the call she discussed her planned vaccinations that the family needed ahead 
of a holiday. She mentioned that she was expecting to need to get the vaccinations in 
around June. The advisor said that she believed that Simplyhealth were now 
accepting pharmacists too. I note that during the call Ms K focused on travel and 
other vaccinations. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that Ms K left that 
conversation with the impression shed be covered for her travel vaccinations as long 
as she attended a registered GP, nurse or pharmacist 
Ive taken into account that Ms Ks policy renewed shortly before the vaccinations 
were carried out and the renewal letter said that she ought to check the policy terms 
and conditions. But I also bear in mind that shed been clear with the advisor that she 
was planning to get the vaccinations in the future and wasnt warned to check the 
terms and conditions to make sure she was covered on her plan. Instead the issue 
was left quite open 
In any event, theres evidence from Ms Ks GP practice that they couldnt have 
carried out all of the vaccinations Ms K needed and thats why they referred her to a 
pharmacist. So, in the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable to reject the claim on that basis 
Ive also not seen evidence that Simplyhealth was prejudiced by Ms K attending a 
pharmacist, particularly as theres a specific limit on the policy, which is the same 
regardless of the type of vaccination she had and who administered it 
Im not making a wider finding about whether Simplyhealth should allow travel 
vaccinations to be carried out by a pharmacist. Thats a commercial decision 
Simplyhealth is entitled to make. However, in the facts of this case, I think its fair and 
reasonable for it to pay the claim, subject to the remaining terms 
I think a total of £75 compensation, including the £50 Ms K has already received, 
fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused by Ms K being given unclear information. I 
also bear in mind when reaching this conclusion that Simplyhealth acknowledged 
Ms K was asked to provide unnecessary information during the claims process which 
caused further inconvenience.      
   
Putting things right
Im upholding Ms Ks complaint and direct Simplyhealth to put things right by paying: 
£150 for the vaccination benefit under the policy for Ms K and her husband
A total of £75 in compensation (including the £50 Simplyhealth has already offered).
My final decision
Im upholding Ms Ks complaint about Simplyhealth Access Limited and direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman