DRN-1210036
 
The complaint
Ms F, and her representative, are unhappy about incorrect information given by IGO4 
Limited.
background
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won't repeat them in detail 
again here. 
In summary Ms F says she agreed to buy a car on the basis IGO4 Limited would insure it 
after she got a quote on a comparison website and spoke to it on the phone. She says it said 
it would insure a car in certain categories but it later said it would not do so.  
IGO4 accepted an error had been made and offered £25 compensation for this. But Ms F 
wants more to reflect a £300 cash deposit she says she lost when she dint proceed with 
the car's purchase. 
Our investigator felt this complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said:
Its clear Ms R was given incorrect information by IGO4 as to what vehicles would be 
insurable. And this was on more than one occasion. As other companies were unable 
to insure the car she wanted to buy, or could only do so very expensively, she didnt 
have any other option other than to pull out of the transaction. 
As Ms R hasnt a receipt for the deposit she cant ask IGO4 to refund it all. But in 
addition to the £25 compensation already paid IGO4 should also pay her an 
additional £150 compensation for her loss of expectation and the inconvenience 
caused.
IGO4 has agreed to pay an extra £150 compensation.  
Ms R remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Its clear IGO4 made some errors and as a result the car Ms R wanted to buy couldnt be 
insured. And cover with any other insurers was far too expensive. 
As a result I agree Ms R made a reasonable decision to pull out of the purchase of the 
vehicle. I realise this likely led to her losing a deposit she said she paid. But unfortunately 
although theres evidence she took some money out of her bank account theres no 
documentation to show she paid a £300 cash deposit to the private seller or that it wasnt 
later returned to her. Consequently, although I recognise Ms Rs frustration, I cant on the available evidence fairly 
ask IGO4 to reimburse her for the £300 deposit.
Ms R has been caused distress and inconvenience by IGO4s errors. Taking everything into 
account, including the level of awards we make, I think a payment of a total of £175 
compensation for this is fair. And, on the available evidence, I dont think I can reasonably 
require IGO4 to pay her any more, as shed like.
Overall, although I recognise Ms Rs strength of feeling, I dont see a compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
For these reasons I uphold this complaint. To put things right IGO4 Limited should, if it hasnt 
done so already, pay Ms R a total of £175 compensation.
IGO4 must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms R accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires IGO4 to take off tax from this interest. It must give Ms 
R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman