DRN-4324070
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) provided him with incorrect documents in 
relation to his insurance cover with them.
What happened
Mr G had landlord insurance with UKI. He received what he believed were out of date 
documents and was worried this might lead to a claim being declined. Mr G says UKI didnt 
take it seriously when he raised this with them, and he has been caused untold distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr G says if he had made changes to his policy he would have been charged. So, he would 
like an admission of UKIs errors plus £75 compensation.
An investigator here looked into the matter and noted that Mr G had access to his policy 
details through an online portal. And that UKI had provided him with a second copy of the 
policy wording booklet when it was requested. The investigator didnt think UKI had done 
anything wrong nor prejudiced Mr Gs position.
Mr G didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont find UKI to have caused any harm to Mr G. They provided him with 
documents when he took out the policy, and they provided him with copies on request. He 
also had access to them online. While I appreciate Mr G has said he avoids using the portal, 
due to vision issues, UKI has provided evidence that he accessed it.
Specifically, Mr G has said the policy which started in March 2022 was accompanied by 
documents dated April 2021. He says this is despite new documentation being printed in 
June and December 2021. So, he thinks he ought to have been provided with the latest 
version. He also suggests that he only received the December 2021 document when his 
policy renewed in March 2023. And he asked what about newer versions in 2022?
Mr G has provided photographs of certain pages of documents he has received. But I cant 
know when he received them or whether there were newer versions he ought to have been 
provided with. Even if newer versions did exist, they might only be applicable to UKIs newer 
customers, because typically new documents will only be provided when a new policy is 
taken out or renewed. It is for UKI to determine which documents apply to Mr G, and 
sometimes that may be older versions. Theyve said if a newer version becomes relevant to 
him, he will be provided with it.
Ultimately, Im satisfied with UKIs assurances that Mr G has been provided with the correct 
documentation when taking out the policy and again upon request. He also has access to 
them online. Importantly, I havent seen anything to make me think Mr G has lost out in 
relation to this issue. I appreciate hes found things frustrating, but UKI have provided him 
with appropriate reassurance and his fears that a claim may be declined havent come true.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman