DRN-4322034
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the way Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (VMMF) dealt with 
a claim hed made in relation to a phone he bought using a fixed sum loan agreement. 
What happened
The events of the complaint are well known to both parties, so Im not going to go over 
everything again in detail. But in summary, in July 2021 Mr L bought a phone for around 
£800 using a fixed sum loan agreement with VMMF. In December 2022 Mr L contacted 
VMMF because of a fault with the phone. Mr L says he spoke to an advisor who initially told 
him hed have to pay for the repair, which I understand cost around £300. Mr L says he 
explained to the advisor he couldnt afford it and that the advisor told him he could cancel the 
agreement and hed be sent packaging to return the phone. Mr L purchased another phone 
thinking his fixed sum loan agreement would be cancelled. But this turned out to be 
incorrect. VMMF said it incorrectly told Mr L the agreement could be cancelled. It apologised 
and paid Mr L £100 compensation. 
Mr L wasnt happy with this and brought the complaint to our service to consider. He says 
because of VMMFs mistake he now has two monthly payments to make and that he cant 
afford them both. Mr L also complained the phone wasnt of satisfactory quality because it 
only lasted 14 months. 
Our investigator ultimately thought Mr L wouldnt have bought the new phone had it not been 
for VMMFs incorrect information. So she thought it should offer to cancel the agreement. I 
understand Mr L owed around £300 towards the agreement. 
Mr L agreed with the investigators assessment, but VMMF didnt. It said the £100 
compensation was fair for the incorrect information. And that its not fair it is required to write 
off £300.
I issued a provisional decision that said:
Mr L bought the phone using a regulated fixed sum loan agreement and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Mr L is unhappy with the information VMMF gave him when he made the claim. And hes 
also mentioned he doesnt think the phone was of satisfactory quality. I think it makes sense 
to deal with both complaints together, as theyre directly linked. 
Quality of the phone
I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 makes VMMF responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
under certain conditions. I think the necessary relationships between the parties exists and 
the claim is within the relevant financial limits. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality (which includes their 
durability). The CRA also sets out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory 
rights under a goods contract are not met. 
It's important to note that Im considering a complaint against VMMF, not the supplier  even 
though they have some sort of connection. So I have to consider VMMFs obligations as a 
provider of financial services  in this case its liability for breach of contract under section 75. 
I can understand why Mr L is unhappy that he paid nearly £800 for the phone and it went 
wrong within a year and a half. Its a lot of money to spend and goods are supposed to be 
durable. We asked Mr L if he had any supporting evidence showing the reasons for the fault 
but hes not been able to supply anything. Given the phone went wrong over a year after 
Mr L bought it, I think Mr L (rather than VMMF) needs to show the fault is relating to 
something that makes the phone of unsatisfactory quality. Without sufficient evidence to 
determine the fault is an inherent problem, and not as a result of non-fair wear and tear for 
example, I dont have the grounds to uphold the complaint on this basis. If Mr L wants to 
provide evidence, I can consider this for him. But without that, Im not going to make any 
directions in relation to VMMFs liability under section 75. 
The way VMMF handled the claim
Its not in dispute Mr L was given wrong information by VMMF on the December 2022 call. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Ive not been provided a copy of the phone call recording. As 
things arent in dispute, Im not persuaded I need to listen to it. But if theres something Mr L 
thinks Ive missed, or is relevant, he should provide a copy in response to this provisional 
decision. 
Ive thought about what would have happened had a mistake not been made. Mr L said he 
was told he needed to pay for the repair initially. And given Ive found, based on the 
evidence Ive seen so far, VMMF wasnt liable for a breach of contract in relation to the 
quality of the phone, that was likely the correct information to give. But Mr L said he couldnt 
afford to pay £300 for the repair. So if he couldnt afford to pay for the repair he would have 
done something else. Mr L decided to buy another phone and pay for it monthly. Given the 
nature of the way people use phones its unlikely Mr L would have decided to save up 
monthly for the repair costs or hed have been without a phone for that time. Theres a good 
chance Mr L simply would have bought another phone anyway so that he could pay for it 
monthly. Mr L hasnt told us or provided evidence he had an alternative to buying another 
phone. 
Therefore, while Im sympathetic to the situation, Im not persuaded that simply writing off 
whatever is owed under the agreement is fair. Based on what Mr L has told us, its likely hes 
ended up in the same position he would have been in had VMMF not gone on to mislead 
him. VMMF compensated Mr L £100 for the trouble and upset caused. I think thats broadly 
fair in all the circumstances for the loss of expectation.However, I note Mr L has said that having two payments required is unaffordable. So Id 
remind VMMF to treat Mr L with forbearance and due consideration if hes in financial 
difficulties. If Mr L has any other points or evidence hed like me to consider, he should tell 
us in response to this provisional decision. 
Mr L responded to say he refused the £100 compensation offer but VMMF decided to pay 
him £100 as a gesture of goodwill. He said the manufacturer had stated the phones rear 
system had failed but the cosmetic condition only showed normal wear and tear. Mr L says 
this indicates he hadnt damaged the phone, and that it wasnt fit for purpose. He also says 
he wouldnt be in the same position if VMMF had given him correct information. And that he 
says the only reason he could afford to buy a new phone on monthly payments was because 
VMMF had told him his agreement would be cancelled. Mr L also highlighted that his phone 
should have lasted between three and five years and that its not right it only lasted for 16 
months. 
VMMF hasnt submitted anything further for me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank Mr L for responding to the provisional decision. I am sympathetic to the 
situation. And I can appreciate he wouldve been upset and frustrated that VMMF 
misinformed him. 
I dont think it matters whether the £100 was paid as compensation or as a gesture of 
goodwill. Ive set out that I think a £100 payment is broadly fair in all the circumstances for 
the misinformation. 
Ive also thought about what Mr L has said about the quality of the phone. I appreciate he 
says the manufacturer sets out the phone should last between three and five years and that 
there was no indication hed damaged it. But the problem I have is that phones can go wrong 
for several reasons. Not all of these will be as a result of physical damage. I simply dont 
have enough evidence to be able to conclude the phone wasnt sufficiently durable meaning 
it wasnt of satisfactory quality. Without evidence to determine the cause of the fault, I dont 
have the grounds to say theres a breach of contract that VMMF is liable for. 
Ive also thought about what Mr L says about not being in the same position had VMMF 
given him correct information. But hes not explained how things wouldve fundamentally 
played out differently had VMMF not misinformed him. He told us previously he couldnt 
afford the repair. And hes not explained he had an alternative option other than buying 
another phone. 
Therefore, while I know hell be disappointed, I think VMMF has done enough to put things 
right, for the reasons given above.  My final decision
Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited has already paid Mr L £100 to settle the complaint. I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman