DRN-1427500
 
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to find her at fault following a car 
accident. 
What happened
Our investigator felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He felt that after reviewing the 
evidence Ageas hadnt made an unreasonable or unfair decision to find Ms A at fault for the 
accident. He added that he was satisfied Ageas had taken account of both Ms As and the 
third partys view of what happened and had made a fair decision. 
Ms A disagreed and has asked an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she 
wasnt at fault for the accident and she felt the pictures and video she had provided showed 
she was in the correct lane when the accident happened. So, she felt there was enough 
evidence to show the third party was to blame for the accident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Ms A feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
This service doesnt decide liability for an accident; thats a matter for the courts. But we do 
consider whether an insurer, Ageas in this case, acted in accordance with the policy terms 
and made a fair decision.
Ms As policy says that Ageas is entitled to take over and deal with a claim on her behalf. Its 
a common term in motor insurance policies. And wed expect it to be applied fairly. 
So, Ive considered whether Ageas has treated Ms A fairly and reasonably when deciding if 
she was at fault. I believe Ageas has considered Ms As testimony and evidence as well as 
the photos from the third party which show the position of the vehicles when they collided. 
Ive also seen the photos and videos supplied by Ms A which show the roundabout where 
the accident took place. Having reviewed all this evidence, Im satisfied Ageas has reached 
a fair and reasonable decision here.  
Ageas has said it has decided to deal with the claim from the third partys insurer on a 
without prejudice basis. Which I believe is a fair outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020. 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman
