DRN-3544000
The complaint
Mrs B complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) allowed a transfer of 
her personal pension with Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GAR) to an SJP pension. She says 
she lost valuable guarantees and has a lower pension as a result.
What happened
In July 2002 Mrs B transferred a former occupational pension to an SJP pension plan. 
Mrs Bs husband, Mr B was a self-employed financial adviser at the time, who was an 
Appointed Representative of SJP. He was able to advise on all aspects of financial planning, 
including pensions. SJP refer to this relationship as being a Partner.
Mrs B has told us that her former colleague (her co-director) took his pension benefits that 
hed retained in the same scheme as her former scheme. His pension had a GAR which, for 
his age was over 11%. This caused Mrs B to compare the benefits shed given up with what 
she had in her SJP pension plan. 
Mrs B complained to SJP that she shouldnt have been allowed to switch her former pension 
to SJP in light of the lost GAR. 
SJP looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. It explained that 
the transfer of Mrs Bs former pension (with the GAR) was transferred on an execution only 
basis. It said that SJP policy at the time allowed its Partners and their spouses to access its 
pension products without requiring advice. It said that Mrs B wouldve signed to 
acknowledge the switch was transacted on an execution only basis.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint and sent his initial opinion on this case in 
April 2021. He thought that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that SJP 
had processed the application as execution only. So had no audit trail of a formal advice 
process. But he didnt think it was likely that Mrs B would have instigated this pension switch 
without some form of advice, albeit informally. So considered that Mrs B was acting on the 
recommendation of Mr B, in his capacity as a Partner of SJP.
SJP ultimately rejected our investigators view and asked for the case to be decided by an 
ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision explaining to both parties why I thought Mrs Bs complaint 
should be upheld. And I proposed a means to put things right, to recognise the income 
Mrs B had missed out on as well as her future lost annuity income.
Mrs B has offered no further comment to my provisional decision.
SJP responded accepting my provisional outcome but offering comments on my proposed 
means of putting things right. It also explained that the commission charge that Mrs B paid 
was the same as it would have been if advice had been provided by a more conventional 
route. But SJP explained it wasnt an advice charge. It suggested that Mrs B benefitted from 
that commission payment and asked whether that should be reflected in the redress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties in this complaint for their responses. I note SJPs request that this 
complaint be informally resolved prior to the issue of a final decision. Im grateful for its offer, 
and consideration for the sensitivities of this case. But Im mindful of the length of time this 
case has been with us, and the need to provide a final resolution to conclude this matter for 
both parties. In this instance I believe that is best achieved by issuing a final decision.
Having considered all the evidence and final submissions, my decision is that this complaint 
should be upheld for similar reasons to those outlined in my provisional decision. 
The issue in dispute is the way in which Mrs Bs pension switch was arranged. SJP have 
explained that the switch was an execution only transaction. Which means that it doesnt 
consider that it provided Mrs B with any recommendation regarding the suitability of the 
switch.
The rules at the time
The regulatory framework has changed over time. In 2002 the then regulator  the Financial 
Services Agency (FSA) published its Conduct of Business rules (COB). And its the 
regulatory framework relevant at that time that Ive considered.
COB 5 is particularly relevant as it relates to the rules and guidance regarding Advising and 
selling. COB 5.1 relates to advising on packaged products (which includes pensions). It 
defined advice. In summary it is:
advising a person if the advice is:
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor,AND
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following
(i) buying, selling,  a particular investment which is [a] relevant investment (that is, 
any designated investment, [which includes pension policies] ;
The definition of what constitutes advice does not, in itself limit it to written 
recommendations. It merely requires that advice is given to an investor about the merits of 
buying a particular investment. In this case Mrs Bs SJP pension policy.
The FSA also published high level principles for the conduct of regulated businesses. These 
were published in the handbook under PRIN. Of relevance to my decision is:
principle 6 - Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly
Was Mrs B provided advice to transfer?
SJP has provided some evidence from the time to indicate that it was dealing with the 
transaction as execution-only. Weve been shown a PPP (personal pension plan) Advice form that marked the application as an execution-only transaction. It was signed by an office 
manager on 31 July 2002. So I understand why SJP say that it provided no formally 
recorded advice. It has explained that it has no fact-find or suitability letter in which a 
recommendation was made to Mrs B.
And SJP have explained that it had a scheme for its Partners that enabled them to process 
such transactions for themselves or their spouses as execution-only. SJP said that Mrs B 
would have signed to agree to that. 
I've asked SJP to provide evidence of the declaration Mrs B might have signed to say that 
the transfer was done on an execution only basis. And also for SJP to provide evidence of 
the terms of the Partners scheme that enabled the normal advisory process to be 
circumvented. But its been unable to provide us with this evidence. The events in question 
happened nearly 20 years ago. So records over that period of time can be incomplete. 
Where evidence is incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I think was more likely 
than not to have been the case.
I have testimony of Mr and Mrs B. Based on their recollections of the time. Mr B recalls that 
he was advised by SJP that Mrs Bs pension switch could be processed as execution only. 
So he doesnt seem to dispute that SJP didnt require the normal advisory process to be 
followed in his wifes case. 
I can understand why such a scheme may be a benefit extended to Partners, who were 
advisers. It would not be unreasonable for SJP to assume that its Appointed representatives 
could make informed decisions for themselves. So it would seem counter intuitive to expect 
an adviser to formerly make and record a recommendation to themself. Or to be compelled 
to obtain independent advice from an identically qualified colleague. And it may not be 
unreasonable to suppose that the adviser, based on their own knowledge, would then 
assume responsibility for the suitability of their decision. 
But Mrs B, as the spouse of an SJP adviser, didnt appear to have specific financial planning 
knowledge. She explains that she worked in a secretarial role at the time and had no 
relevant financial background. So couldnt be assumed to be able to possess the insight that 
an SJP Partner would. Without being able to see any documented policy, it seems likely to 
me that, by its very nature, this Partners scheme relied on the understanding that the SJP 
Partner was qualified to suitably advice his or her spouse. In which case, it relied on the 
assumption that Mr B was able to assess whether the switch was suitable.
Amongst the contemporary evidence that SJP have provided is a document entitled 
Personal Pension Investment Plan Transfer Value. It was prepared by SJP for Mrs B on 30 
July 2002. And showed her Adviser to be Mr B. The document provided an illustration of 
projected fund performance and potential benefits. Ive not interpreted this document as 
constituting a recommendation. But it does point to Mr B being the adviser, for the purposes 
of the transaction. Not only did it refer to Mr B as the Adviser at the top of the document, it 
included a section entitled How much will the advice cost? And explained:
For arranging this plan and providing ongoing servicing throughout its term, we will 
provide your advisors practice with direct remuneration and administrative services. 
These have been valued at £1667.18 in the first year.
Ive asked SJP why Mr B was shown on the illustration as being Mrs Bs adviser. It explained 
that it is simply that he was an SJP Partner so was her link through the proposed plan. And it 
also says that, irrespective of whether Mrs B received advice, the product followed a 
standard format which included initial and ongoing advice charges. But I think that the 
implication of citing Mr B as the adviser, and that Mrs B was still charged the same fee as she would have been if shed received more formal advice, is that SJP understood that its 
Partner was, more likely than not, providing advice.
I dont think its reasonable to conclude that this pension switch could have come about 
without Mr and Mrs B having discussed it. Mr B explains that the issue was discussed with 
his manager at SJP. Hes provided the recollection that his manager had informed him that 
it would have to be processed as an execution-only transaction. Which seems plausible in 
light of what SJP have explained of the Partners scheme and the way that it says Mrs Bs 
pension was treated.
I think that its likely that Mrs B would have trusted her husband to act in her best interests. 
And she knew that he was qualified to provide advice. I consequently think it extremely 
unlikely that she would have asked him to transfer her pension without asking for his opinion 
on whether it was suitable or not. And similarly unlikely that he wouldnt then have offered an 
opinion. Quite simply, if it were not for Mr Bs position as an SJP Partner, Mrs B most likely 
wouldnt have considered or been able to make the switch in 2002 that she did. On balance, 
I think that Mrs B was acting on a personal recommendation by an SJP Partner. Ive asked 
Mr B about this, and he has agreed that Mrs B transferred on his advice.
Was the transfer execution-only?
Ive also considered what COB said about execution-only transactions. COB 5.2.2 
explained that a firm that arranged an execution-only transaction for a customer wasnt 
generally required to obtain any personal or financial information about that customer. And it 
provided the definition of execution only transaction as:
a transaction executed by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where the firm 
does not give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction
As Ive concluded above, I think it is far more likely that Mrs B was acting on advice that 
shed received from an SJP Partner. Which means that her transaction couldnt in fact 
qualify as an execution-only transaction under the COB definition. Even if Mrs B signed to 
say that it was (which isnt clear), it didnt alter this fact. 
In treating Mrs B in this way I dont think it complied with its obligations set out under 
principle 6, referred to above. Mrs B was charged for the service she received from SJP in 
the standard way, with no oversight from SJP that its Partner had carried out an appropriate 
assessment. And this pension switch would not have ever come about without it being 
recommended by that Partner.
Was the advice suitable?
Having concluded that Mrs B was, more likely than not, advised to switch pensions, Ive 
considered whether it was suitable to recommend this transfer for Mrs B. And I dont think it 
was. 
The way in which the recommendation came about seems to have meant that it wasnt given 
very comprehensive consideration. SJP have an illustration of the projected benefits of its 
scheme after transfer. With no comparison of the benefits given up.
Mrs Bs ceding scheme had GARs. Although It's likely that SJP were unaware of that. The 
GARs made the end benefits in that scheme valuable. Transferring would mean the loss of 
these guarantees. With no suitability letter, I only now have Mrs Bs recollection of why she 
transferred. Which is that she was encouraged to do so for better fund performance. But at 
the very least, suitable advice ought to have considered the loss of the guarantees. It ought to have identified that replicating the benefits she may have had would be difficult based on 
fund performance alone. I dont think that Mrs B should have been recommended this 
pension switch.
I appreciate that SJP consider that Mr B is responsible for having failed to properly identify 
the issues with Mrs Bs pension switch. But he was acting as their Appointed 
Representative. SJP were responsible for the actions and advice of its Appointed 
Representatives. It allowed the discretion in this case, for this transaction to be processed 
without being fully assessed. It did it on the basis that Mrs B was acting in execution only. 
But this wasnt fair, when she was being so closely guided in her choices by an SJP adviser.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mrs B, as far as is possible, into the position shed have been if she hadnt 
been unsuitably advised. I consider that shed have remained in her ceding scheme and 
retained her pension benefits with her GAR.
Her ceding scheme had a normal retirement age of 55. And on transfer, she retained that 
retirement age. Mrs B reached age 55 and elected not to take the benefits in her SJP 
pension, instead preferring to defer retirement age to 65. So I think that, on balance, that 
would have been the same had she remained in the ceding scheme.
Following my provisional decision, SJP queried whether I considered whether tax-free cash 
would have been taken. But Mrs B has now passed age 65 and I understand has taken no 
benefits from this pension. When she could in fact have taken TFC at any point since age 
55. I think on balance, that if Mrs B had retained her former scheme, shed have taken the 
benefits as an annuity, using the GAR.
Compensation for past loss 
Mrs B would have been in receipt of an annuity from age 65. To compensate her for the 
amount of pension benefit that she has already missed out on SJP should calculate the total 
of all the notional annuity payments which Mrs B should have received, net of her marginal 
rate of tax, from age 65 up to the date of my final decision.
Notional annuity payment shall be calculated by contacting the ceding scheme to 
establish the notional value of Mrs Bs ceding scheme when she reached age 65, 
and then using that schemes GAR for a female aged 65.
Compensation for future loss
SJP should calculate the following:
A)The notional gross pension per year Mrs B should have been receiving from the 
date of my final decision onwards
B)The actual gross pension per year Mrs B could be receiving from her existing 
pension from the date of my final decision onwards. As Mrs B still has a pension 
fund, the gross pension per year they could receive from it is determined by applying 
the rate from step D) below.
C)Future Gross Loss per year = A  B. 
D)SJP must then work out what it would cost to replace the lost income in C) by 
buying an annuity on the open market with the same features for Mrs Bs ceding 
schemes GAR. It will need to refer to the published annuity rate tables to get a quote 
from a competitive provider.E)The purchase price of the annuity found in D) is Mrs Bs gross future loss. This 
should be paid directly to her as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise be paid.
 Likely marginal rate of income tax in retirement presumed to be 20%.
Total compensation
The total compensation to be paid to Mrs B will be the combined compensation for past and 
future losses. 
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of SJP receiving Mrs Bs acceptance 
of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SJP deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs B how much has been taken off. SJP should give Mrs B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require SJP to pay Mrs B the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require SJP to 
pay Mrs B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require SJP to pay 
Mrs B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
SJP pays Mrs B the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mrs B.
If Mrs B accepts my decision, the money award is binding on SJP. My recommendation is 
not binding on SJP. Further, its unlikely that Mrs B can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mrs B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc must compensate Mrs B in the manner Ive set 
out in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Gary LaneOmbudsman