DRN-3271397
The complaint
Mr O brought this complaint on behalf of himself and the Estate of Mrs O. I was sorry to 
learn of Mrs Os death. 
Mr O says that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to him and 
Mrs O. 
What happened
It looks as though two PPI policies were sold to Mr and Mrs O. The first was sold in 2002 
when they took out a further advance to their mortgage. The second policy was sold in 2004, 
also at the same time as Mr and Mrs O took out a further advance. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr O didnt agree with that view. 
In summary, he said: 
if there had been any discussion about PPI, both he and Mrs O would have rejected 
it. They had never knowingly taken out any PPI policy; 
Mr and Mrs O both had secure jobs with good sick pay provision. The PPI would 
have provided a limited benefit to them, and they could have saved the cost of the 
policy each month instead; 
Mr and Mrs O had never missed a mortgage payment and so it was not clear as to 
why Lloyds would have recommended such cover. Lloyds had already refunded PPI 
taken out on several other financial products it sold them. 
As Mr O did not agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Mr O couldnt recall how or where PPI had been sold. Thats understandable given the cover 
was sold almost 20 years ago. From the information Lloyds has provided, it looks as though 
both policies were sold during a face to face meeting in a Lloyds branch. I cant know what 
was said during those meetings. So to help me decide whats most likely to have happened, 
Ive looked at the paperwork Lloyds retained from the point of sale. Ive given careful thought 
to Mr Os submissions about what he thinks happened. 
The first thing for me to consider is whether Mr and Mrs O would have known the PPI cover 
was optional and they didnt have to buy it if they didnt want it. Mr O strongly believed he 
and Mrs O would never have bought PPI knowingly. 
However, looking at the paperwork for the sale in 2002, I can see they had answered several 
questions about the PPI. For example, they both said they had no pre-existing medical 
conditions. And it looks as though there had been a discussion about how to split the policy 
with 50:50 cover being selected. Mr and Mrs O also completed a separate direct debit 
mandate for the PPI. So the premiums would have come out of their bank account as a 
separate transaction to their mortgage. For the 2004 sale, a totally separate PPI application 
form was completed, which both Mr and Mrs O signed. They completed another separate 
direct debit mandate. 
I appreciate that Mr O says he and Mrs O would not have agreed to this cover. And I accept 
that what he told us is his honest recollection of what took place. But if the PPI cover showed 
as a new and separate transaction on their bank statements, I think theyd have queried 
what this payment was for. But the evidence doesnt suggest they did. With all of these 
things in mind, I cant reasonably say the PPI was added without Mr and Mrs Os knowledge 
or consent. Looking at the paperwork, I think its most likely they knew they could refuse the 
cover if they didnt want it. 
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs O to take the cover out. So it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the cover was suitable for their needs. To help me decide on this point, Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions of the cover. Ive also had careful regard to what Mr O told us about 
his and Mrs Os circumstances at the relevant times. 
I can see that for both policies, both Mr and Mrs O would have been covered for 50% of the 
repayments each if one of them was out of work. For example, if Mr O was off sick from 
work, half of the repayments would have been met. If they were both off at the same time, 
the full repayment would have been met. Each claim could have lasted for up to 12 months 
for each claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. 
In both 2002 and 2004, Mr and Mrs O worked in the public sector. They would have both 
been entitled to six months full pay and six months sick pay from their employer. However, I 
must stress that their borrowing was secured on their home. So if they fell behind with their 
repayments, they could have been at risk of losing their house. PPI would have paid out on 
top of their existing work benefits. And they could have kept their existing resources for their 
other essential expenditure at what could well have been a difficult time if one of them was 
out of work. 
It looks as though both Mr and Mrs O were in good health when both policies were sold. So I 
dont think they would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical 
conditions. I havent seen anything unusual about their employment circumstances that 
would have stopped them from being able to make a successful claim if they needed to. 
I appreciate Mr O doesnt think Lloyds should have recommended the cover because Mr and 
Mrs O had a good payment record. But the cover was about protecting them if they became 
unwell or were made redundant in the future. It wouldnt have covered them if they missed 
repayments for any other reason. So I dont think their previous good payment history 
rendered the policy unsuitable. 
Putting all of these things together, I think Lloyds PPI recommendation was probably 
suitable for Mr and Mrs O. 
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Mr and Mrs O enough information about the PPI so they 
could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. I accept its possible 
that Lloyds didnt tell them everything it should have done. But that doesnt mean I can 
automatically uphold the complaint. I have to think about whether they would have acted 
differently if the sales had proceeded as they should have. 
Ive set out above how the cover could have been helpful to Mr and Mrs O if one or both of 
them had been out of work. And although I know Mr O disagrees, it looks to me as though 
they most likely chose the cover and so it looks like they wanted that type of cover. All in all, 
I cant say they would have refused the cover if Lloyds had given them more or better 
information about it. 
As I said, I am very sorry to disappoint Mr O. But for the reasons set out above, I havent 
upheld this complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and the 
estate of Mrs O to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman