DRN-3492365
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his motor 
insurance claim.
All reference to AA includes its agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr R had a car insurance policy with AA and made a claim when his car was involved in an 
incident with a third-party driver. Mr R reported to AA that he was making a U-turn due to a 
road traffic accident in the road ahead. He explained that he was reversing when he collided 
with the third-party vehicle. 
AA accepted liability for the incident and settled the third partys claim. Unhappy about this, 
Mr R complained. He explained that he didnt accept responsibility for the incident and 
thought AA should have consulted with him before accepting liability. Mr R wants the fault 
claim removed from his record. He says it should be the other partys fault or at least 50-50. 
AA said with the circumstances provided, the incident was deemed a fault claim from the 
outset. It thought this was the correct decision for claims such as Mr Rs. 
Mr R didnt agree and brought the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. She thought that as Mr R was completing a manoeuvre the main duty of 
care would fall on him. Our investigator also said under the circumstances and from what Mr 
R told AA, she didnt think it was unreasonable for it to accept full liability for the incident. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for a final decision. He says AA 
should have checked and at least reviewed photographs from the accident. He doesnt think 
it should be able to accept liability for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
Our investigator explained that Mr Rs no claims discount was reduced in line with the terms 
and condition of the policy. So, I wont go over this again here, instead Ive focused on what 
is still in dispute.
In these types of complaints, our role isnt to say who is responsible for the accident in 
question, thats something for the courts to decide. So, Im not able to say whether Mr R was 
responsible for what happened, but Ive looked at whether AAs investigation was fair, and if 
the outcome was reasonable. 
Mr R doesnt think AA should accept liability on his behalf. However, his policy contains a 
term found in most car insurance policies. It says AA is entitled to take over and conduct at 
the Insurers expense in Your namethe negotiation defence or settlement of any claim. 
This means AA can handle a claim however it sees fit. Even though it might mean it makes a 
decision Mr R doesnt agree with, it is still allowed to make such a decision. That said, we 
would still expect it to settle a claim in a fair and reasonable way, taking into account all the 
facts and evidence provided by both sides. I dont think it was unreasonable for AA to make 
the decision it did in the circumstances of the case. Ill explain why.
Without CCTV footage of the incident or an independent witness statement to say what 
happened, its difficult to know exactly how the accident occurred. However, Im satisfied its 
taken Mr Rs account of the incident in consideration when deciding to settle the claim. Its 
notes show when Mr R phoned to report the incident, he advised he was making a U-turn 
when he reversed and hit a stationary third-party car. While the road traffic incident in the 
road ahead may have given Mr R cause to turn around, I dont think that means he isnt 
responsible for the accident. Mr R still had a duty to check before completing the 
manoeuvre. AA said the claim was considered a fault claim from the outset. Considering Mr 
Rs report of the incident, I dont think thats an unreasonable conclusion. 
Nevertheless, it had both cars inspected following the incident and the third-party vehicle 
was deemed a total loss. Mr R says AA should have asked for photographs from the 
incident, but I dont think it had to. AA are entitled to decide whats necessary as part of their 
investigation. The photographs may have indicated the level of damage caused by the 
accident, but Im not persuaded they would have changed the decision on who was 
responsible for the accident. AA explained that as Mr R was the party carrying out the 
manoeuvre and then experiencing the connection with the other vehicle, its decision to 
accept responsibility for the accident was correct. With this explanation, coupled with what 
Mr R told them happened, I dont think what it said is unreasonable. 
As I said earlier, AA had both cars physically inspected by an engineer. I think this would 
give a more accurate indication of the level of damage to both cars than the photographs 
could.  
As I mentioned earlier, my role isnt to say who was responsible for the incident, its to 
consider if AA acted fairly and reasonably by accepting liability for what happened. Court 
proceedings can be costly, and it isnt unusual for an insurer to settle a claim if it thinks there 
is little chance of success if the case was heard in court.  AA said it couldnt provide a 
counter argument on the cause of the accident. It will have more experience of how cases 
like this usually fair in court, and I dont think its unreasonable it settled the claim in the 
circumstances. I know this will be disappointing to Mr R, but ultimately, I find AA carried out 
a fair investigation before it made its decision. Im also satisfied its decision was reasonable, 
so I wont tell it to remove the claim from Mr Rs record.
It's worth noting that normally a fault claim is recorded when an insurer is unable to recover 
its costs in relation to a claim. Regardless of who is held responsible for it. If Mr R was held 
partially responsible for what happened, AA would still have been liable for a portion of the 
claim costs. So, I dont think it would have changed things for Mr R as the claim would be 
recorded in the same way. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Oluwatobi BalogunOmbudsman