DRN-4290318
The complaint
Mr L says that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) acted unfairly 
in not upholding his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in 
relation to a timeshare product he purchased using his credit card with them.
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Ls to make because they stem 
from a credit card agreement in his name only. However, as they relate to purchases made 
by him and his wife, I may refer to Mr and Mrs L at times throughout this decision. 
What happened
In or around October 2013, Mr and Mrs L attended a meeting and presentation with a 
company who Ill refer to as CH. During that meeting, Mr and Mrs L agreed to purchase a 
timeshare product from CH at a cost of £7,950. They paid an initial deposit of £2,500 using a 
credit card (issued by Barclaycard) in Mr Ls sole name.
In or around September 2017, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr L submitted 
a claim to Barclaycard under Section 75 of the CCA (S75). Within the claim, the PR alleged 
that CH had made various misrepresentations about the product purchased which Mr and 
Mrs L had relied upon when making their decision to complete the purchase. And under the 
provisions of the CCA, Mr L is able to make a like claim for those misrepresentations against 
Barclaycard. In particular, the PR allege Mr and Mrs L were told:
they would benefit from a huge amount [sic] of benefits;
theyd be able to access any apartment within the resort where the meeting was held;
they could bank their timeshare week with CH;
they could use any apartment in any resort at any time;
the product included two years membership with a timeshare exchange company 
(nominated by CH) with whom they could also bank their timeshare week under the 
same conditions; and
they would receive points that could be used against holidays with another travel 
club.
During the meeting and sales presentation, the PR allege:
Mr and Mrs L were pressured in to entering the purchase agreement;
CH used aggressive sales tactics
Mr and Mrs L were made to feel anxious;
Mr and Mrs L spoke to a number of sales representatives causing confusion and 
upset.
The PR thought CH had failed to reach the standard of conduct required in most relevant 
financial codes of conduct.
In response to Mr Ls claim, Barclaycard said that despite requests, they hadnt received 
copies of the contracts, terms and conditions etc that applied to Mr Ls purchase. They also 
werent able to clearly identify a transaction to CH from Mr Ls credit card account with them. 
Barclaycard said they werent able to write to the PR as they didnt hold the required 
authority to do so.
Mr L wasnt happy with Barclaycards response. So, the PR referred his complaint to this 
service. Whilst considering the circumstances of Mr Ls complaint, our investigator was able 
to provide further information to Barclaycard  as provided by Mr and Mrs L and the PR. 
Having considered this information, Barclaycard didnt think Mr L had a valid claim under 
S75. Whilst the purchase contract was agreed with CH, the credit card payment had been 
made to another company (who Ill refer to as F). And because of that, they werent able to 
establish a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement under the CCA, thus rendering 
Mr Ls S75 claim invalid.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think Barclaycard had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in turning down Mr Ls claim. Our investigator was also 
unable to establish the necessary DCS relationship. However, having also considered the 
alleged misrepresentations, out investigator didnt think there was any evidence from the 
time to support them. They also didnt think it likely a court would find that an unfair 
relationship existed under Section140A (S140A) of the CCA.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, they:
didnt agree Mr and Mrs L hadnt been pressured by CH;
said CH had marketed and sold the timeshare product as an investment with 
assurances they were guaranteed their money back on sale;
the travel club points didnt deliver what was promised;
thought an unfair debtor/creditor relationship existed under S140A as a result of 
breaches of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the TRs);
believe CH used aggressive commercial practices in breach of the Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT)
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Ls complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and reach a final decision. Having done so, while I reached the same outcome as 
our investigator, Id considered some issues which I didnt feel were previously fully 
addressed. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision (PD) on 12 July 2023  giving 
the parties involved the opportunity to respond to my findings before I reached a final 
decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit, 
subject to the necessary DCS arrangement being in place. Mr L says he paid a 
£2,500 deposit for the timeshare product with a credit card issued by Barclaycard. 
So, it appears that S75 could apply here, provided the necessary DCS arrangement 
can be established. This means that Mr L would be afforded the protection offered to 
borrowers like him under those provisions. As a result, Ive taken this section into 
account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
1 The Dispute Resolution SourcebookIts important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe Barclaycards treatment of 
Mr Ls claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information 
available. While the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by 
the consumer, we do not provide a legal service. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Mr and Mrs Ls timeshare product experience
I think its relevant to acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ls previous experience with 
timeshare products. In their statement, they confirmed theyd previously purchased a 
timeshare product from another supplier in 2008. As Ill explain later, I believe this 
was ultimately traded in against the product purchased from CH. They also say 
theyd previously had a similar timeshare experience in 2003. More recently, Mr and 
Mrs L had already purchased a trial membership with CH earlier in 2013, which it 
also appears was traded in towards the product later purchased from CH. 
Based upon this information, I think its reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs L had a 
reasonable awareness about the products purchased, how they might operate and 
any associated ongoing cost.
Misrepresentation
Despite the PRs submission and Mr and Mrs Ls recollections, the documents 
provided dont appear to support the stated purchase price paid here. It appears Mr 
and Mrs L had originally purchased a trial membership from CH earlier in 2013 at a 
cost of £1,495. I would add that this particular sale doesnt appear to form part of any 
claim here. 
The actual price of the product purchased in October 2013 appears to have been 
£25,345. Against which there was a trade in allowance of £2,495. Presumably for the 
aforementioned trial membership which, it appears, hadnt been used. Further, there 
appears to be a further trade in allowance of £14,900 in relation to a timeshare 
product Mr and Mrs L already held with another timeshare supplier. The net 
difference appears to be £7,950  the amount Mr and Mrs L say the product cost.  
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by CH in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on all the available 
evidence, that CH made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product 
in 2013. In other words, that they told Mr and Mrs L something that wasnt true in 
relation to one or more of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the 
misrepresentations were material in inducing Mr and Mrs L to enter the contract. This 
means I would need to be persuaded that Mr and Mrs L reasonably relied on those 
false statements when deciding to buy the timeshare membership.
The PR have provided limited documentation from the time of the sale. Ive seen 
some handwritten calculations on headed note paper and a copy of a CH 
membership certificate in Mr and Mrs Ls name, together with some handwritten 
notes its said were made by Mr and Mrs L. There is a document headed Deed of 
Trust. But this appears to relate to a different timeshare company. Although not 
determinative of the matter, Ive not seen any other documentation or evidence from the time of the sale, such as marketing material or purchase documentation terms 
and conditions, which supports what Mr and Mrs L say they were told or that what 
was said amounted to misrepresentation.
On this basis, I cant reasonably conclude that the product was misrepresented. And 
because of that, I cant say that Barclaycards response was ultimately unfair or 
unreasonable.
S140  Unfair Relationship
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Barclaycard) and the debtor 
(Mr and Mrs L) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from 
S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
Its important to acknowledge that only a court can make a determination under 
S140A. But as this is relevant law, I need to take it into account in reaching my 
decision  where appropriate.
The PRs letter of claim alleges that CH used aggressive sales tactics and Mr and 
Mrs L were pressured into entering the agreement. That said, I cant see that a 
specific claim has been made to Barclaycard under S140A. And because of that, I 
dont believe theyve been given opportunity to consider such a claim.
That said, I acknowledge what Mr and Mrs L says in their testimony about the length 
of the sales presentation they attended. So, I can understand why its argued that the 
prolonged nature of the presentation might have felt like a pressured sale  
especially if, as they approached the closing stages, they were going to have to 
make a decision on the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may not 
have been available at a later date.
However, against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly 
understood, I find it hard to argue that Mr and Mrs L agreed to the purchase at the 
time of the sale when they simply didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to 
demonstrate that they went on to say something to CH, after the purchase, to 
suggest theyd agreed to it when they didnt want to. And as they havent provided a 
credible explanation for why they didnt subsequently seek to cancel the purchase 
within the usual 14-day cooling off period permitted, if they only agreed to the 
purchase because they were pressured, I find this aspect difficult to reconcile with 
the allegations in question. I havent seen anything substantive to suggest Mr and 
Mrs L were obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  And because of that, 
Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mr and Mrs L 
made the decision to proceed because their ability to exercise choice was  or was 
likely to have been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT 
Regulations.
Given Mr Ls previous experience, I think its reasonable to conclude that they were 
likely to have attended timeshare sales meetings previously. And because of that, they benefitted from a growing level of experience about what they could expect from 
those meetings and sales presentations.
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
[Barclaycard] and matters relating to the debtor2 [Mr L]).
Whilst there might be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations 
might have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think such a decision is 
likely to be taken within the context of Mr Ls overall experience. In any event, while it 
appears no overt claim has been made under S140A, I think it unlikely a court would 
determine there was sufficient imbalance to deem the debtor-creditor relationship as 
unfair here.
Was the right arrangement in place? 
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a 
precondition to a claim under that provision. 
As it appears that payments under the purchase agreement were made to a third 
party rather than to CH directly, its possible that there was no such agreement in 
place. Particularly following a recent High Court judgment in the case of Steiner v 
National Westminster Bank PLC [2022]. 
However, as I understand it, the claimant there sought permission to appeal that 
decision. And, in any event, given the overall outcome Ive reached, I dont think its 
necessary to make a formal finding on the debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement for 
the purpose of this decision because I dont currently think the complaint should 
succeed under S75.
Summary
Ultimately, my decision must be based upon the supporting evidence that is available 
for the allegations made. And as Ive already said, there is very little supporting 
documentation from the time. Barclaycard told this service as much. And theres 
evidence they explained this to Mr L in writing. So, as it stands, I cant say that 
Barclaycards response to Mr Ls claim appears unfair or unreasonable. Because of 
that, I dont currently intend to ask them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear this service has received a response from Barclaycard to my provisional 
decision.
In their response, the PR confirmed that theyre no longer representing Mr L with his 
complaint.
In acknowledging receipt of my provisional decision, Mr L didnt agree with my findings. In 
doing so, hes provided further explanation of the circumstances of his claim and complaint 
together with copies of various documents which he believes are relevant. 
Mr L has further explained how the purchase was constructed in terms of products that were 
part exchanged and payments made using different credit cards. In providing his 
explanation, Mr L says:
CH offered a more flexible holiday platform together with the option to close 
membership after two years through an assisted exit route (with a nominated 
2 CCA section 140A (2)timeshare relinquishment company); and
they were not given a 14-day cooling off period;
Mr L also gave a detailed explanation of his rationale (at the time) for exchanging his existing 
timeshare interest for the CH product purchased.
The claim against CH
Mr L points out that his purchases from CH involved payments made using different credit 
cards with different financial businesses which he believes all form part of the overall claim. 
Because of this, Mr L thinks this service should review our case as a whole. 
Id like to again clarify this services role in considering Mr Ls complaint here. Some of which 
I previously explained in my provisional decision. The powers afforded to this service allow 
us to consider complaints relating to the provision of financial services and products by 
businesses regulated by the FCA. In this case, Im considering Mr Ls complaint against 
Barclaycard which relates to their treatment of his claim under S75. Any complaint against 
another financial business would need to be considered separately, as each one involves a 
different respondent. And I understand these have already been raised and either have been 
or are being considered separately by this service.
Mr Ls claim is underpinned by alleged breaches of various legislation and regulations. So, 
for example, part of this includes a claim for alleged misrepresentations made by CH which 
would fall under the Misrepresentation Act 1967. S75 allows Mr L to make a like claim 
against Barclaycard, which is what hes done. But Barclaycard didnt uphold that claim. And 
as I previously explained, this service isnt afforded powers to consider and make findings on 
legal claims. However, the assessment and treatment of Mr Ls claim by Barclaycard is 
undertaken as a benefit of his credit card account with them  which is a financial service. 
And its the treatment of the claim by Barclaycard that forms the basis of Mr Ls complaint Im 
considering here.
The sale and provision of timeshare contracts is not something thats regulated by the FCA. 
Theyre not financial services or products that can be considered under this services 
powers. Because of that, this service isnt able to consider Mr Cs claim as a whole. Only 
his complaint against Barclaycard. And thats what Ive done here. As I understand, any 
claim against CH could only be considered as a whole by a court under civil proceedings.
In explaining the events leading up to his purchase in October 2013, its clear Mr L sees his 
earlier purchase of a trial membership with CH (in March 2013) as part of the overall 
transaction. However, this was a separate purchase subject to separate contract 
documentation. Mr L has provided copies of some of that documentation which confirms that 
to me. And as this was a separate transaction, I cant see it forms part of the complaint made 
to Barclaycard. So, Im not able to consider that in this particular case. Only the purchase in 
October 2013, as it was the outcome of this claim that was the subject of the complaint 
referred.
Alleged regulatory breaches
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 
(TRs) applied to Mr Ls purchase. These set out various requirements including the 
provision of a statutory 14-Day cooling off period before any purchase contract can be 
completed. Mr L says CH told him there wasnt a 14-day cooling off period associated with 
his purchase. If that were the case, its possible the sale here breached the TRs. However, 
while I acknowledge Mr L says thats what he was told, I havent seen any evidence to 
corroborate this claim. And from the information Ive seen, it appears the subsequent 
completing payments werent made until 10 November 2013  after the 14-day cooling off 
period. So, I cant reasonably say with any certainty that the TRs were breached here.One of the main aims of the various regulations that applied was to enable consumers to 
understand the financial implications of their purchase so that they are put in a position to 
make an informed decision. If CHs disclosure and/or the terms of the purchase didnt 
recognise and reflect that aim, and Mr L ultimately lost out or almost certainly stands to lose 
out from having entered into a contract, the financial implications of which he didnt fully 
understand at the time of contracting, that may amount to unfairness under S140A.
However, given the limited documentation provided, I havent seen any evidence to support 
the breaches alleged here. And as the Supreme Court decision in Plevin3 makes clear, it 
doesnt automatically follow that regulatory breaches create unfairness for the purpose of 
S140A. Such breaches and their consequences (if there are any) must be looked at in the 
round, rather than in a narrow or technical way. In other words, if I were to find thered been 
regulatory breaches  and I make no such finding - they are only likely to lead to unfairness 
where theres evidence Mr L suffered loss as a consequence. I also havent seen any 
evidence that CH enforced any of the terms within the product agreement to such an extent 
that they caused loss or resulted in unfairness. 
Mr L also alleges that CH told him he would be able to close his membership after two years 
using a nominated timeshare relinquishment company. However, I havent seen any 
documentation from the time of the sale that supports this. Or any of the terms and 
conditions that might be associated with such a feature. So again, I cant say with any 
certainty that the product did offer this feature. Or that CH represented this as a feature of 
the product purchased.
Summary
I want to reassure Mr L Ive considered everything hes said and provided. Including the 
various allegations around availability and subsequent holiday/accommodation pricing. But 
without any detailed documentation from the time of the sale which clearly sets out the 
product features and benefits Mr L was told he would receive, or evidence that what CH 
provided varied from these, I cant reasonably conclude there was misrepresentation. Or that 
a court is likely to find then any breaches resulted in the relationship being unfair under 
S140A. And because of that, I cant say the outcome of Mr Ls claim to Barclaycard was 
ultimately unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman
3 Plevin vs Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] (Plevin)