DRN-2452530
The complaint
Mr S complains about a whole of life Living Assurance policy sold to him in 1993 by Phoenix 
Life Limited.
Mr S is being represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company. For ease I 
will refer to all actions as being those of Mr S.
What happened
Mr S took out the policy in 1993 and it was cancelled in 1998.
In 2020 Mr S complained to Phoenix saying the policy had been mis-sold as no alternatives 
were discussed. He also said that the policy reviews werent disclosed and that long-term 
affordability wasnt assessed.
Phoenix looked into the complaint. They thought Mr S had a need for cover at the time but 
that a fixed term policy over 34 years wouldve been more suitable than the whole of life 
policy which was recommended. They offered redress of the difference between the 
premiums paid and those that that wouldve been paid for a fixed term policy plus interest. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service saying the actual cost of cover should be deducted 
rather than the premiums for a 34 year plan. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened. They thought the offer was fair as there was need for cover and that a 34 year 
term was better suited to Mr S needs at the time. Mr S remained unhappy so the complaint 
has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lot of time has passed since the policy was sold in 1993. So theres no surprise that we 
dont have a complete picture of what was discussed. Because of this I need to come to a 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened.
Having looked at the information from the time of the sale I think Mr S had a need for cover. 
Mr S was married and looking for cover to protect his family should anything happen to him. 
He was renting at the time and looking to buy a house as soon as possible. Considering 
everything Im satisfied there was a want, and a need, for cover. 
Phoenix say a 34 year term fixed policy wouldve been more appropriate than a whole of life 
policy; and I agree. Mr S was looking for life cover and, after considering all of the evidence, 
I think had Phoenix given the correct advice its most likely he wouldve taken out the fixed 
term policy. 
Mr S was 26 years old when the policy was taken out. A 34 year policy wouldve taken him 
up until his intended retirement age of 60 which was recorded at the time. A fixed term policy 
has cheaper premiums with more security than a whole of life policy where premiums will 
generally increase over the years. Matching the policy term to Mr S estimated working life is 
a suitable recommendation considering that one of his aims was to protect his family. Mr S 
also said that he had no savings and wasnt saving anything each month, so a more reliable 
stable monthly premium wouldve have given him security over time.
Mr S says that affordability was also an issue as the policy lapsed within a few years. 
Income and commitments were discussed at the time of the sale, and Ive not seen any 
evidence that the policy lapsed due to affordability.
Considering the time thats passed we could never be sure of what Mr S wouldve done had 
he been presented with the option of a fixed term policy. But, on balance, I think it most likely 
the fixed term policy was more suitable as Mr S was looking for some family protection cover 
at the time. And, I think he wouldve taken it had it been offered. It follows that I think it fair of 
Phoenix to deduct the cost of a fixed term policy from the redress. There was a need for 
cover, but that cover shouldve been provided by a different policy.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied the offer from Phoenix is fair and 
reasonable.
Putting things right
Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr S the difference between the premiums paid and the 
premiums he wouldve paid for a 34 year fixed term policy for the time the policy was active. 
Phoenix should add 8% simple interest from the date the policy was cancelled until the date 
settlement is made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint and Phoenix Life Limited should pay 
Mr S the amount described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman