DRN-3769749
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc Virgin) didnt respond to his complaint and 
defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr S had a credit card from Virgin. In April 2020, Virgin agreed to a three-month payment 
holiday under the FCAs covid support scheme. Mr S was then made redundant and had 
little income. In December 2020, Virgin agreed to a six-month payment plan  with no 
payments required, and zero interest. In June 2021, a further payment plan was agreed on 
the same terms. In September 2021, Virgin placed a 30 day hold on the account while 
waiting for Mr S income and expenditure form. A form was sent in on 1 October 2021, and 
this showed that income was less than expenditure. On 24 November 2021, Virgin 
received another income and expenditure form  and this showed monthly income of 
£2,025 and outgoings of £1,087. Payments to lenders were £227 (excluding Virgin). Virgin 
sent Mr S a Notice of Default on 9 November 2021  with arrears of £1,340.08 to be paid 
by 7 December 2021. On 8 December 2021, Virgin defaulted Mr S account. The balance 
was £11,027.68 and the card had been cancelled. Virgin havent yet sold the debt to debt 
collectors pending the outcome of Mr S complaint.
Mr S complained. He said he had sent in two income & expenditure forms and heard 
nothing back from Virgin. He logged a complaint but didnt get a final response  only a 
holding letter on 5 January 2022. He said Virgin hadnt acted fairly and shouldnt have 
defaulted his account. He said he had returned to work and could afford to make the 
minimum repayments.
Virgin didnt send a final response. They told us that because the eight-week timeline for 
sending a final response had been exceeded, they didnt complete their investigation.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Virgin acted reasonably. He 
accepted what Virgin had told us  that by June 2021, Mr S was six months in arrears and 
so Virgin were then entitled to default the account. And Virgin said they backdated the 
default to then.
Virgin had said that they had processed Mr S income and expenditure form inefficiently 
when it was sent in on 1 October 2021 and offered to pay compensation to him of £200 for 
that. He said that Virgin had been supportive in giving Mr S a six-month interest-free 
payment plan.
Mr S didnt accept this and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I dont agree with our investigator, in particular  he didnt look at the issue of the income 
and expenditure form sent in on 24 November 2021.
Mr S told us he was made redundant in November 2020  and after that, had no income 
for a period. Virgin gave him a payment holiday under the FCAs pandemic support 
scheme in April 2020 for three months. I firstly considered whether Mr S shouldve been 
given this support after that  instead of the payment plans that Virgin gave him later.
In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
Virgin, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including credit 
cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still 
be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 
2020.
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would 
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation 
was that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme 
werent normally agreed. And so  because Mr S was made redundant, with little 
immediate prospect of returning to work, he didnt qualify for the scheme. So  I think that 
was reasonable.
Virgin then gave Mr S two payment plans  the first ran for six months from December 
2020; and then another for three months from June 2021. No payments were needed and 
no interest was charged. Virgin have argued that because by June 2021, Mr S account 
was six months in arrears  they were then entitled to default his account at that time and 
shouldve done so. The guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind 
with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be 
registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. It is the 
business responsibility to put an entry on the credit file. This cannot be taken off unless it 
is an error. And so  I dont dispute that Virgin couldve defaulted Mr S account then  but 
the fact is they didnt  and instead gave him another three-month payment plan  with no 
payments needed, and on an interest free basis. The letter sent to Mr S on 2 June 2021 
set that out.
I can then see that Virgin gave Mr S a 30 day hold on his account on 2 September 2021 - 
theyd sent him an income and expenditure form to complete so they could assess his 
situation and see what support they could give him. That was the right thing to do. I can see 
that Virgin sent him the form three times - and each time, Mr S said he hadnt received it. 
But he sent one to Virgin on 1 October 2021  Virgin say they didnt receive this. But 
theyve also said they didnt process it  so Im not . Mr S then called Virgin
several times to ask for another form.
What happened next is the crux of this complaint. Virgin sent Mr S a Notice of Default on 9 
November 2021  with arrears of £1,340.08 to be paid by 7 December 2021. On 11 
November 2021, Mr S called Virgin to say he had sent the form in and the notes on his 
account say that when it was received we can begin to assess customer situation and get 
onto a planif we get plan sorted he wont have to worry(about interest).
On 24 November 2021, Virgin received Mr S income and expenditure form.
I can then see that Mr S called Virgin on 30 November 2021 to see if the form had been 
received  the call handler said it had, and a call back was arranged to discuss the form 
and a solution for Mr S. Mr S called Virgin again on 1 December 2021  and another call 
back was agreed. But  I cant see that any call backs took place to discuss the form and 
what it showed. Virgin told us the form was incomplete  but Ive seen it and I dont agree with that. And it showed that Mr S had returned to work and showed monthly income of 
£2,025 and outgoings of £1,087. Credit repayments were £227  excluding Virgin. The 
form also said he had an investment of £70,000. Unfortunately, it doesnt appear that Virgin 
assessed the form and didnt contact Mr S about it. Had they done so, and discussed his 
circumstances, I think its likely that they couldve agreed a scheme of repayment with him. 
The minimum monthly payment to the Virgin credit card in December 2021 was £272.30  
which based on the form, Mr S could afford.
But, what then happened was that on 8 December 2021, Virgin defaulted Mr S account. 
That was two weeks after theyd received the income and expenditure form  so they had 
time to look at it and speak to Mr S, but didnt.
Mr S called Virgin on 10 December 2021 to chase matters up, and a complaint was 
opened at that time. He called another two times in the next few days to find out what was 
happening. The notes on Mr S account say that on 14 December 2021 spoke to 
(customer) and told him the account will remain in defaulted status until complaints team 
complete investigation and get in touch. But - the complaints investigation wasnt 
concluded.
Its unfortunate that Virgin didnt complete their investigation  which I must say I found 
odd. I dont think it was reasonable of Virgin to not complete an investigation because the 
eight- week timescale had passed. But as we arent authorised to make a judgement on 
complaint handing processes at firms  I cant comment any further on that.
And so  I think it was reasonable to expect Virgin to have looked at Mr S income and 
expenditure form, analyse it and see what support he should have been given. This 
couldve taken place after 24 November 2021 and before the default on 8 December 2021. 
But they didnt. And so - my view is that the default should be removed.
Mr S has said to us that he has another job and can afford to make the minimum payments 
to Virgin from now on. I think its therefore fair that Virgin contact Mr S and look at his 
current circumstances to confirm that. And if its viable, the account should be put back on 
a commercial basis. Virgin have told us the debt hasnt been sold to a debt collection 
agency  and that shouldnt be necessary now. I agree that Virgin should also pay £200 
compensation as theyve offered  for the inefficiency in dealing with the income and 
expenditure form.
Mr S should be aware that the minimum payments are likely to be around the amount
payable in December 2021 (£272 per month) when responding to this provisional decision.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Neither Virgin nor Mr S responded. I now need to make a final decision. (continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Virgin nor Mr S had any comments, I wont be departing from my provisional 
decision.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must:
Remove the default dated December 2021 from Mr S credit file.
Agree a repayment programme on a commercial basis, with normal interest rates and 
repayments  subject to confirming Mr S circumstances.
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman