DRN-2022738
The complaint
Mr M has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with his mortgage by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
In 1993 Mr M applied for a mortgage with Nationwide and at the same time he took out a PPI 
policy. The mortgage was redeemed, and the policy cancelled in 1998.
Mr M has now complained that the PPI was mis-sold but Nationwide didnt agree that was 
the case and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr M was unhappy with what Nationwide said, so brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said he didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr M remained unhappy and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. 
I would also reassure Mr M that I have considered everything that has been submitted in 
evidence by both parties and independently reviewed this to reach my decision. 
Mr M has told us he didnt know about the PPI and didnt want or need it. He doesnt recall 
any discussion about the PPI and says he was unaware he was paying for it. Mr M had a 
good job with excellent sick pay and job security, so he says he didnt need the PPI and it 
was mis-sold. 
The mortgage Mr M took out was of 95% of the value of the property and he was providing a 
5% deposit. In 1993 where less than 10% deposit was being paid it was a requirement by 
Nationwide that PPI, to protect the mortgage repayments, was taken out. This was 
irrespective of the other resources of the consumer. So if Mr M wanted the mortgage being 
offered by Nationwide, which was at a preferential interest rate, he had to take out the PPI 
policy. 
If Mr M didnt want to take out the PPI, because he didnt feel he needed it, then he would 
have had the choice of not taking out the mortgage with Nationwide and taking a mortgage 
out with another provider. But for this particular mortgage the PPI policy had to be taken.
Mr M says he wasnt given any information at all and knew nothing about the PPI. 
Nationwide says Mr M would have been given a leaflet explaining about the PPI and also a 
Policy Document at the point of sale and afterwards he would have sent a Schedule of 
Insurance. 
I cannot be certain exactly what was said or given to Mr M at the time. The mortgage and 
PPI were taken out via a third party, although Nationwide has accepted responsibility for the 
sale of the PPI. 
Every year Mr M would have been sent a mortgage statement setting out the opening 
balance on the account, the charges and payments made in the year and the closing 
balance. In the payments section the total charges for the PPI for the year would have been 
stated. There was also a separate section which indicated what would be included in the 
direct debit figure for the coming year. And this included the amount for the PPI each month 
for the next year. 
Also an annual renewal notice and new Schedule of insurance for the PPI would have been 
sent to Mr M. This would have set out the nature of the cover, cost and other basic 
information about the policy for the next year.
Taking account of all these factors, I think it is more likely than not that Mr M received some 
information about the PPI at the start and certainly would have done so over the years the 
mortgage and PPI were active.  This all took place over 25 years ago, and memories do fade 
but I think it most likely, at the time, Mr M did know something about having the policy.  
But Mr M didnt have a choice about taking out the PPI, if he wanted the mortgage being 
offered by Nationwide, he had to have the PPI policy. And it seems Mr M did want this 
mortgage, as he agreed to take it out and would have known how much the monthly direct 
debit was, which included the PPI premium. It was for Mr M to consider the mortgages that 
were available to him from other providers and for him to decide if he wanted this particular 
mortgage from Nationwide, with which he had to have the PPI. 
Although Mr M had a policy that he feels now he didnt want or need, he had to take it to 
obtain the mortgage it seems he wanted, and he could still have benefited from the policy. 
He met all the eligibility criteria for the policy. And from the information I have seen, from 
both Nationwide and Mr M, his circumstances were such he would not have been caught by 
any of the restrictions of the policy. For example, he didnt have any medical conditions that 
would have restricted claims on the policy, nor any unusual employment conditions. 
Even though Mr M had excellent employment benefits if he was off sick, the PPI would still 
have paid out to cover his mortgage payments in addition to this. So he could still benefit 
from this policy despite any employment benefits.
Ive also taken note of Mr Ms response to our adjudicators recommendation. He has 
indicated he never knew he had this policy until he did a check following publicity about mis-
sold PPI. As I have indicated, annual renewal notifications would have been sent, so some 
of these at least should have been received during the time the policy was active and raised 
Mr Ms awareness that he had a policy. 
Although he says he would never have claimed as he didnt know he had the policy, if his 
circumstances had changed, such as he became unemployed or was off sick long term, he 
would have been required under his mortgage terms to notify Nationwide of any change in 
his circumstances. And if that had occurred Nationwide could have highlighted his ability to 
claim on the policy. But as I have indicated already, I think at the time, Mr M should have 
had some knowledge about the insurance even though he cannot remember anything about 
it now. Mr M has also made reference to not being aware of the costs and he would have gone to 
another lender if it worked out cheaper. I cannot be certain if the cost of the PPI was made 
totally clear to Mr M at the point of sale. But he would have known the monthly mortgage 
direct debit amount that was to be paid and that amount included the PPI costs. And if Mr M 
felt that monthly amount was more than he wanted to pay for his mortgage including the PPI 
premium, then I can only assume at the time he would have considered his mortgage 
options with other providers. 
Knowing the monthly payment amount he was to make, including the cost of the PPI, Mr M 
chose to go ahead with the mortgage with Nationwide. So I can only assume at the time he 
considered this monthly mortgage repayment amount, including the PPI premium, was what 
he wanted to pay in the light of other mortgages he may have considered. 
Mr M is also unhappy with what Nationwide referred to when considering his complaint as he 
says some of the information it relied on was incorrect. However, the concerns Mr M has are 
about what other means Nationwide has referred to that Mr M may have had if he was 
unable to work. But this makes no difference in this case as to whether the PPI was mis-
sold. The issues in this complaint are not about what other resources or support Mr M may 
have had to make his mortgage repayments. Mr M had to have this PPI policy if he wanted 
this particular mortgage, so his other means do not affect the outcome of this complaint.
I have also considered if Mr M should receive any excess commission and profit share that 
would have been part of the PPI premiums needs to be refunded by Nationwide. However, 
the type of mortgage Mr M took out in 1993 is not affected by the rules and guidance put in 
place by the Financial Conduct Authority relating to this. So, no excess commission or profit 
share is due to be refunded. 
In summary I have seen nothing to show the PPI with this mortgage, was mis-sold to Mr M. I 
think at the time he should have been aware he had this policy, which was required in order 
to take out the mortgage with Nationwide. And he would have been able to make a claim if 
not working as he was eligible for the policy and wasnt caught by any restrictions in the 
terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Nationwide Building 
Society to Mr M and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman