DRN-4198976
The complaint
Miss J complains that esure Insurance Limited have delayed in dealing with her no-fault 
claim which has impacted her renewal premium and caused her distress and inconvenience.   
What happened
In February 2022 Miss Js parked car was damaged when a third party van drove into it. The 
van driver didnt provide his details and drove off, but a witness provided Miss J with the  
vehicle details and she passed them to esure.   
esure arranged for the repairs to Miss Js car and provided a hire car. When her car was 
returned they advised they would now need to claim the costs from the third partys insurer. 
Miss J received no further correspondence from esure until the following year. 
In early January 2023 Miss J received her renewal quote from e sure which was twice as 
much as the previous year. Miss J says she was upset about this because she has 20 years 
no claims discount and hadnt been responsible for the damage to her car. 
She contacted esure and was told that the claim was still open and recorded as a 50/50 
claim because they had been unable to settle it with the third party insurers as they didnt 
have the third party details.  She couldnt understand how the claim was still open as she 
wasnt even in the car at the time it was hit and she spent several hours on the phone trying 
to sort this out.  Esure then promised to update her but didnt. 
Shortly before the renewal was due, Miss J rang esure still upset about her renewal price as 
she couldnt afford it. She has been unable to sleep worrying about what was happening.  In 
the end she was able to negotiate her renewal price down to an affordable level by reducing 
her annual milage.
Miss J rang again for an update about her complaint in February and after waiting a long 
time she was cut off and had to ring again for further updates and to complain.  
After complaining, esure refunded Miss Js excess and paid compensation of £100 for the 
poor service, but Miss J was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to us.   
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs H and Mr Ws complaint and he thought that 
esure  should pay an extra £200 for distress and inconvenience caused bringing the total to 
£300. 
Esure didnt agree with this, and so the case has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
I am pleased to see that esure have refunded Miss Js excess in advance of settling the 
dispute with the third party insurer, as this will have in part alleviated the financial pressure 
that she has been under since paying the excess at the time of the repair. 
So Ive then thought about whether the compensation of £100 offered in addition to the £30 
for reimbursement of phone calls adequately reflects the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the delays and poor service. 
With a fairly straightforward claim Id expect it to be progressed quite quickly. I can see that 
Miss J provided registration details for the third party shortly after the incident, and that esure 
received them. 
However, the claim notes show no activity between February and May. The third party 
insurer then asked for further documents in July as they rejected quantum, and asked for 
them to be e mailed as the case wasnt suitable for the portal. However, esure sent them via 
the portal again in September before realising their error and finally sending them correctly in 
November. 
This significant delay meant that by the time Miss Js renewal was due in January 2023, the 
claim was still open, impacting her renewal premium significantly. 
Although Miss J hadnt at that point had her excess refunded, and so should have known the 
claim wasnt settled, I dont think she would have expected that almost nothing had 
happened in the 11 months since the accident. So I can appreciate how upset she will have 
felt receiving a high renewal based on the open claim, and then finding out that no progress 
had been made since the incident to claim the costs back.  
Since the complaint in January esure have taken some steps but this is still unacceptably 
slow.  
The impact on Miss J has cost her stress and worry following getting a high renewal 
premium, and she has had to compromise on her policy in order to get it down to an 
affordable figure, which has again caused her inconvenience and worry leading to sleepless 
nights.       
I appreciate that there is no guarantee that the claim would have been settled by now, but 
esures failure to make any progress on a straightforward no fault claim has delayed any 
resolution by at least 11 months which is significant, and they have failed to make any 
contact with Miss J during that period to explain that there were delays. And so in view of 
that I consider that it is appropriate to increase the award of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Taking all of this into account, including the length of the delay in dealing with the claim 
properly, the inconvenience caused by being without the excess refund for over a year, and 
the impact on the renewal premium, Im satisfied that an additional £200, bringing the total 
award to £300 as recommended by the investigator is a more appropriate award for distress 
and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
To put things right, esure  should pay Miss J a further £200 for distress and inconvenience 
bringing her total award to £300.My final decision
I am upholding Miss Js complaint against esure Insurance Limited and directing them to put 
things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman