DRN-4018146
The complaint
Mr L has complained about his let property insurer QIC Europe Ltd in reference to the 
settlement it has offered to him for his fire damage claim.
What happened
Mr Ls property suffered a fire in April 2020. He made a claim and QIC began investigating it. 
It had some concerns initially and it was October 2020 before it accepted the claim. It then 
asked Mr L for quotes for reinstatement. When those were received QIC felt they didnt 
contain enough detail to explain the costs. A quantity surveyor was appointed and visited the 
premises in February 2021. The reinstatement was then put to tender. Once the tender was 
completed, QIC appointed a contractor to do the strip-out work. That was completed by 
September 2021. 
Mr L had been unhappy about the claims progress, not least because his period for loss of 
rent payable under the policy had run out. So he complained. Which resulted in QIC paying 
£400 compensation to Mr L  explained in a final response dated 6 September 2021. And, 
following Mr L complaining to this service, one of our Investigators recommended that it pay 
an extra four months of lost rent, but not any more compensation. She looked at what had 
happened, to the point of strip-out completing, and felt QIC had caused delays in the first six 
months of the claim, such that it wasnt fair for QIC to just pay for the rent-loss period set in 
the policy. QIC and Mr L both agreed to the recommendation.
In October 2021, following the strip-out work completing, QICs loss adjusters raised a 
concern about the cost of remaining repairs. They noted costs had gone up in the last year 
and felt the remaining repairs would exceed the sum insured. They said that looking at 
previous rates the property had likely been underinsured in 2020 too. So they recommended 
the rest of the claim was settled in cash. QIC, noting a quote Mr L had submitted for the 
remaining work, decided to pay Mr L the limit on the policy, less what it had spent already on 
repairs. In February 2022, QIC paid Mr L £223,336.23, which was the sum insured of 
£300,000 less the costs for the surveyor and strip-out work. Mr L wasnt happy  his quote 
from November 2021, for the reinstatement, was for £293,653.20. He complained again.
QIC wasnt minded to do anything else. Our Investigator felt that it wasnt fair for QIC, it 
having caused delays, to rely on the sum insured for settlement. She felt it should be paying 
Mr L what it would cost him for repair and £500 compensation. QIC didnt agree. It said it 
had first become concerned about the sum insured in December 2020, it had discussed its 
concerns in this respect with Mr L in May 2021 and his quote in November 2021 confirmed 
them. It said that, had it told Mr L earlier, it wouldnt have changed the costs he was facing. 
In respect of compensation it said it was concerned that this had already been dealt with in 
the previous complaint. Mr Ls complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I was also minded to uphold the complaint. But my reasoning for doing so was different to 
that expressed by our Investigator, and I felt a more specific award, including a further 
payment for lost rent, was required to resolve matters. I also needed to make both parties 
aware of our award limit. So I issued a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
If an insurer starts to repair a property, the sum insured cant be relied upon as a limit to 
which the reinstatement work can be completed to. That is because, by starting work, an 
insurer has, effectively, entered into a contract to repair the property. Only if something 
happens, which was previously unknown and unforeseeable, can that contract fairly and 
reasonably be set-aside.
Here QIC knew what the sum insured was at the outset. And it took some time in the early 
stages of the claim to ensure it had liability for the loss. A usual step for an insurer at the 
very beginning is to check whether the property is adequately insured. QICs loss adjusters 
reports from 2020, and through until its report number 9 issued in October 2021, dont 
indicate that there were any concerns about the level of insurance Mr L held. So the adjuster 
either didnt check, or did and was happy the property was adequately insured. Either way 
QIC had the opportunity to assure itself of that before it chose to appoint a surveyor and 
complete strip-out works at the property. It is also the case that the Covid-19 pandemic had 
begun even before Mr Ls claim was made, and by February 2021, it was becoming clear 
that the pandemic was on-going, with effects of the previous year alone, on the country, 
already proving to be significant. But QIC still began to repair Mr Ls property. So I think it 
cant, fairly and reasonably walk away from that contract, revert to the policy cover and settle 
based only on the sum insured.
Further, it is clear to me from the loss adjusters reports and comments to this service, that 
the increased cost of materials which occurred in late 2021, largely as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, was a big factor in the cost of reinstating Mr Ls property increasing 
beyond the sum insured. And whilst I havent assessed the period before October 2021 
myself, our Investigator found that there had been delays by QIC in progressing the claim in 
that period. And QIC agreed that this was the case. So if those delays had been avoided, the 
works would have started sooner  by at least four months by all accounts. Which may well 
have avoided at least some of the effects of the increasing costs that, during 2021, began to 
occur. So I think that QICs delays likely prejudiced Mr Ls position.
In addition, QIC has argued that Mr L, regardless of the increased costs following the 
Covid-19 pandemic, was always underinsured. As I said, QIC didnt raise that issue earlier in 
the claim and it entered into a contract for repair. I stand by what Ive said in that respect. 
But I also bear in mind that if QIC had identified an underinsurance concern at the outset  it 
could have chosen then to settle in cash rather than repair. It would then have been possible 
for Mr L to proceed with the work in 2020, using a contractor of his choosing and making 
decisions himself about the work that was needed to reinstate the property given the funds 
he had available to him. So, if Mr L was underinsured when the fire occurred in 2020, and 
QIC failed to identify this at the outset, or noted it and went ahead with repairs anyway, only 
to stop in 2021, I think it prejudiced Mr Ls position further. Its actions left Mr L with costs that 
he could well have avoided or at least mitigated to some degree.   
So, taking all that into account, I dont think its fair or reasonable for QIC to settle based on 
the sum insured. I think it should pay Mr Ls cost for repair as set out in his quote from 
November 2021. QIC has already paid Mr L £223,336.23. And Mr Ls quote for £293,653.20, 
includes VAT of £48,942.20. QIC should pay Mr Ls cost for VAT, but only once invoices are 
presented to it showing work has been done and VAT is due. In the meantime, it should pay 
Mr Ls cost excluding VAT of £244,711.00, less the £223,336.23 it has paid already  
£21,374.77.
I also think that QIC reasonably knew by the beginning of November 2021 that it wasnt 
prepared to continue with repairing the property  and that a sum in excess of £200,000 
would need to be paid to settle in cash in the way it wanted. But it was February 2022 before 
it made a payment to Mr L. I think that was too long. So Im going to require QIC to pay Mr L 
an amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £244,711.00 from 1 November 2020 until 9 February 2022, when QIC paid £223,336.23 to Mr L. And then further interest* on the 
remaining £21,374.77, from 10 February 2022 until that sum is paid to Mr L. Also, if Mr L 
presents VAT invoices to QIC, it should pay the VAT shown as due for the work in the 
November 2021 quote, up to the value of £48,942.20. It should pay this within 14 days of the 
date it receives the invoices, or it will have to add interest* to the VAT sum due from the date 
of receipt until settlement is made.   
I think the sum QIC paid to Mr L, in February 2022, whilst not all he needed to complete the 
work, was a substantial sum. It should have been enough for him to start reinstating the 
property and complete most of the work necessary for repair. But he couldnt begin to do that 
until he got the funds in February 2022. And Ive said I think there was delay in that respect 
from November 2021. Which means Mr L lost a further three months of rent on account of 
QICs delays. I think it is only fair then that it pays further compensation to make up for this 
additional financial loss. Im going to require it to pay Mr L £3,900 being the sum of three 
months rent (where annual rent was accepted as £15,600, making monthly rent £1,300), 
and Im going to require QIC to add interest* to this from 1 February 2022. That is an 
arbitrary date  because of the length of the claim, delays etc, I dont know when Mr L 
should really have had the benefit of that rental income. Awarding interest from 1 February 
is, in my view, a fair date to apply it from, which generally reflects that Mr L has been without 
money due to QICs delays.
I think that following the strip-out work completing in autumn 2021, Mr L was caused further 
upset by QIC. As Ive said there were delays in the settlement being made. And the 
settlement itself, which Mr L was unhappy about, was in my view unfair and unreasonable. It 
created a position for Mr L that QIC shouldnt have left him in at that time, and the sum in 
question was unfairly and unreasonably limited to the sum insured. So I do think further 
compensation of £500 is fairly and reasonably due to Mr L. 
I need to mention here though, that whilst I am of the view that the additional sums listed 
above should be paid, I can only make awards to the limits that apply to this service. In this 
case, given the date of the loss and the date Mr L complained, the applicable limit is 
£355,000. And that limit usually includes payments already made on the claim. I can 
recommend that QIC makes payments to Mr L, over and above that sum. But, even if my 
final decision remains the same and Mr L accepts it within the deadline given, QIC wont be 
bound to pay what Ive recommended, although it may choose to. And if Mr L has accepted 
my final decision but QIC doesnt choose to honour my recommendations, it is unlikely he 
will be able to go to court for any recommended sum outstanding. Regarding any final 
decision I make, Mr L may wish to seek legal advice before deciding whether or not to 
accept it.
Mr L said he was happy with the decision. QIC said it couldnt agree with it.
In summary QIC said:
It had not/did not start to repair the property  all it did was cover the cost of strip-out 
work in order that the full cost for what it would take to reinstate the property could be 
understood. 
It had not caused delays to the claim in 2020.
It had paid compensation and lost rent for the period up to October 2020 as a 
commercial decision, not in acceptance of any liability for delays.
Mr L was asked in October 2020 to provide reinstatement quotes, but did not do so until 
January 2021.
His quote was inadequate and insufficient, in terms of scope and costs, there was a lack 
of detail and items were missing. In its view, this quote should not be accepted as a 
proper and full quote.It was May 2021 when the issue of underinsurance was raised with Mr L.
It was only when the strip-out work completed in September 2021 that the full extent of 
reinstatement works became known and it became obvious, following a fully scoped and 
costed estimate being put forward in November 2021, that the sum insured was 
insufficient.
It did not opt to settle the claim based on average, which it could have done (and which 
would have meant a much lower payment was made to Mr L than the £223,336 it had 
paid).
Mr L indicated in February 2022 that he was prepared to accept a sum of £253,000 in full 
and final settlement of the claim.
If the Financial Ombudsman is to award anything, the total of any awards should not 
exceed the sum subject of that indicative acceptance.
The sum insured for loss of rent on the policy has been exhausted.
It is not known whether and, if so, to what extent Mr L has started the repairs.
If the cost of repair has increased due to the Covid-19 pandemic, that is not something 
indemnifiable under the policy  not taking into account case law.
Interest is further not fairly applicable at the rate of 8%, as that exceeds the Bank of 
England base rate.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC did not pay Mr L so he could appoint a contractor to do strip-out works. Rather QIC 
appointed a contractor which completed the strip-out work at the property. That is the first 
stage of repair where a building is damaged by fire. I am satisfied that QIC, by its actions, 
effectively entered into a contract to repair the property. 
I appreciate that the fire at Mr Ls premises occurred during the first month of the nationwide 
restrictions put in place in 2020 as the result of the Covid-19 pandemic. And due to the 
previous complaint made to and resolved by our service, I am not looking at how the claim 
was generally handled or progressed at that time. But I can reasonably bear in mind that, in 
September 2021 QIC accepted that there had been some delays in the claims progress. And 
our Investigator in resolving that complaint found about four months of delay had occurred, 
which QIC accepted. In any event, delays in the claim before September 2021 were not my 
only reason for finding that QIC should settle this loss beyond the sum allowed for in the 
policy. I also identified a delay in making the settlement payment to Mr L. And the fact that 
QIC only identified, what it has termed as underinsurance, very late in the claim and having 
started, as Ive said, to repair the property. 
I also understand that QIC had needed to get an estimate from Mr L. And that when Mr L 
presented an estimate to it, it had concerns about it. 
I knew when I issued my provisional decision that QIC had told us that it had become aware 
of underinsurance in December 2020 and then discussed its concerns in this respect with 
Mr L in May 2021. But QICs file notes do not reflect any such conversation. And the reports 
compiled by QICs loss adjuster dont suggest that is the case either. As I said provisionally, 
the first mention of underinsurance was in the loss adjusters report issued in October 2021. 
This makes no reference to underinsurance having been discussed with Mr L in May 2021, 
and prior to that October 2021 report, there was no report in May 2021, only in April 2021. 
The October report was made after the strip-out work was completed. I accept that once that 
was done, a better idea of the reinstatement costs could be gained. But the sum insured for buildings is usually meant to reflect what it would cost for the property to be rebuilt. And that 
is something loss adjusters are adept at determining even when viewing a heavily damaged 
property  it is not usually necessary to wait for the building to be stripped out for an expert 
to determine what it would cost to rebuild it. Indeed QICs loss adjuster, whilst not including 
anything in its early claim reports to confirm this, did tell our Investigator, during her 
assessment of this complaint, that it was satisfied that the sum insured was sufficient at the 
time of the loss.
I note that QIC did not choose to settle the claim based on average. And I accept that there 
is a policy clause which, in certain circumstances, would allow QIC to do that. But because 
QIC did not choose to rely on that clause, I have not assessed whether or not it would likely 
apply here. But settling based on average, or restricting the payout to the sum insured, both 
seek to limit QICs liability for the loss. And that is what Im considering here, what my 
provisional findings focused on  whether QIC, in this situation here, can fairly and 
reasonably limit its liability for the loss due to alleged underinsurance. Nothing QIC has said 
in reply to my provisional decision, makes me think that it can.
I think its fair to say that when QIC told Mr L it would only be settling based on the sum 
insured less what it had already paid, he really did not agree that was fair. I think its also fair 
to say that he then tried to mitigate his loss by attempting to negotiate an improved 
settlement with QIC. But QIC wasnt minded to negotiate or offer a revised settlement and 
told Mr L his choice was to accept the settlement offered, and/or ask the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to consider his complaint. Mr L chose the latter and Ive found, 
provisionally and now finally, that QICs offer was unfair and unreasonable. Mr L believed the 
offer was unfair but did not know that was the case. Now Im satisfied that it was unfair and 
unreasonable and Ive explained, from my informed position as Ombudsman, what is 
needed to put that right  including an additional payment to compensate Mr L for lost rent  
regardless of the policy cover and on account of the delayed claim settlement. What I feel is 
needed is more than what Mr L had tried to negotiate with QIC for.  And I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable for me to hold Mr Ls well-intentioned but uninformed attempt at 
negotiating a resolution against him by saying that the matter can now be settled by QIC 
paying just that requested sum. 
This service, where there is a delay in a claim, often makes awards of interest at 8%, 
regardless of the Bank of England base rate. That is largely akin to awards the courts make 
for delays.  Whether or not Mr L has done any repairs doesnt change the fact that the 
settlement of £223,336.23 was, in my view, delayed. And Ive also found it was less than 
what QIC fairly and reasonably should pay in settlement of the claim. So even when the bulk 
of the claim was settled in February 2022, it was light by around £21,000, not including VAT. 
VAT is often paid once work is done. And if QIC had identified underinsurance at the outset 
of the claim, as I think it reasonably shouldve done had it wanted to rely on that to limit its 
claim outlay, it couldve settled with Mr L then. He could then have done work and asked for 
VAT to be paid too  all likely before the increases in the cost of work, referenced by QICs 
loss adjuster, occurred in late 2021. So Im not persuaded the case law, referenced by QIC, 
where one case relates to what the policy allows for and both pre-date the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys rules on fair handling of insurance claims where a failure to handle a claim fairly 
can result in damages, are that relevant here. 
Having considered QICs reply disagreeing with my provisional decision, Ive not been 
persuaded to change my views expressed therein. As such, my provisional findings, along 
with my comments above, are now those of this my final decision. 
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint. In this case, I can award fair compensation to be paid by QIC up to £355,000, plus any interest and/or costs, or interest on costs, that I consider 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £355,000, I may recommend 
that the business pays the balance. I am mindful that here its possible that some of my 
redress may exceed the £355,000 limit which applies to Mr Ls complaint, so I am making 
an award and a recommendation.
My award
I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr L:
£21,374.77 being the outstanding cost to him for repairs, based on the November 2021 
quote, not including VAT.
£3,900 as compensation for lost rent.
£500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
These sums, taken with the claim total QIC has paid already, all fall within my award limit 
of £355,000. I am awarding interest* on these sums too. Ive set out my interest awards 
below. As explained above, interest* payments are not subject to the award limit.
I also require QIC to cover Mr Ls cost for VAT. Ive said that QICs maximum liability for 
that is £48,942,20. It isnt yet known what VAT Mr L has incurred. But it seems likely that 
some or all of his VAT cost will take the total redress due beyond the limit I can make 
awards to of £355,000. So I require QIC to, as far as my award limit of £355,000 allows, 
pay Mr L:
A sum equivalent to VAT Mr L incurs on work subject of the November 2021 quote, up to 
a maximum value of £48,942.20. This is subject to Mr L submitting invoices to QIC 
showing VAT on the quoted work is due.
I further require QIC to make the following payments of interest* which are not subject to 
my award limit:
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £244,711.00 applied from 
1 November 2021 until 9 February 2022.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £21,374.77 applied from 
10 February 2022 until settlement is made.
If Mr L submits VAT invoices to QIC and it doesnt pay the VAT due to him for the work 
on the November 2021 quote, up to its maximum of £48,942.20, as the limit allows or it 
chooses to pay regardless, within 14 days, an amount equivalent to interest* due on any 
sum payable to Mr L, from the date the VAT invoices were received by it until payment is 
made.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £3,900 from 1 February 2022 until 
settlement is made. 
My recommendation 
I recommend that, in the event the VAT sum due to Mr L takes the redress sums in total 
beyond my award limit of £355,000, that QIC still pays the VAT amount due in full.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Even if my final decision 
remains the same and Mr L accepts it within the deadline set, QIC doesnt have to do what 
Ive recommended. Its unlikely that Mr L can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance if the recommendation is not honoured. Mr L may want to get independent legal 
advice before deciding whether or not to accept any final decision I make. *Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires QIC to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require and recommend that QIC Europe Ltd provides the redress 
set out above at Putting things right. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman