DRN-2748097
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc declined its 
applications for a new account  which meant it couldnt apply to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan.
Mr D is Bs director and brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
B wanted to apply to HSBC for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
HSBC required customers to hold an account with the bank before it would offer them a 
Bounce Back Loan. While Mr D was an existing personal customer of HSBC, B didnt hold 
any accounts with the bank. So Mr D applied for a new account for B  submitting 
applications for a feeder account and a current account. But HSBC declined the applications. 
Mr D complained, but HSBC didnt change its decision. It said that Bs applications had been 
processed in accordance with its account opening criteria, and declined in line with its policy. 
The bank also said it couldnt share the details of its criteria with Mr D due to their sensitive 
nature.
So Mr D referred his complaint to us. He explained that he was a long-standing customer of 
the bank with a reliable credit history. He also said that hed subsequently been able to open 
a new account for B elsewhere. So he was unhappy that, in light of this, HSBC had refused 
Bs applications  without asking him for more information or explaining its reasons. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. In summary, he said:
Although Mr D was an existing customer of HSBC, B wasnt  so it was right for the 
bank to treat the company as a new customer.
HSBC had the discretion to decide how it would offer Bounce Back Loans to new 
customers. And it was reasonable for HSBC to require an account to be opened first, 
so that it could complete anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks  
in line with its legal and regulatory obligations, and as required under the Scheme. 
HSBC was entitled to assess applications for a new account against its own criteria. 
And it had done that in Bs case. As the applications hadnt met the criteria, theyd 
been declined. Looking at the information the bank had considered, he thought its 
decisions were reasonable. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint  so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As B wasnt an existing customer of HSBC, the bank required it to open a new account  
either a business current account or a feeder account  before it could apply for a 
Bounce Back Loan. That was in line with its standard process. And I think it was reasonable, 
for the reasons explained by our investigator. There was no obligation on HSBC to offer 
loans under the Scheme to new customers at all, and it had the discretion to decide the 
basis on which it would do so. And HSBC has explained that the account-opening process 
enables it to complete the various checks expected of it  under its legal and regulatory 
obligations, and as required by the Scheme rules.
Ive checked that HSBC hasnt increased the criteria it uses when considering applications 
for an account from new customers seeking a Bounce Back Loan compared with its practice 
previously. And Ive confirmed that it assessed Bs application against those criteria. So I 
think it treated B fairly. As Ive seen from HSBCs internal records that Bs applications didnt 
meet those criteria, I dont think the bank did anything wrong in declining to offer it an 
account. I dont think there was any need for HSBC to ask Mr D for any further information 
before making that decision  it had all it needed to fairly assess the applications and I cant 
see that he couldve added anything that wouldve led to a different outcome.
I appreciate what Mr D has said about his long-standing personal relationship with HSBC 
and his own creditworthiness. But here the bank was considering whether it wished to open 
an account for B, so there were  legitimately  other factors that it took into account when 
assessing Bs applications. And while B was able to obtain an account elsewhere, different 
banks have different criteria  so this doesnt lead me to think that HSBCs decision was 
unfair or unreasonable.
I also understand from what Mr D said in response to our investigators view that, as no 
explanation for the banks decision has been provided, hes concerned weve not sufficiently 
scrutinised its rationale. But as mentioned above, we received the banks internal records 
and I have reviewed the basis on which the applications were declined. While I can see why 
Mr D would want to know more, Im afraid we cant provide any more detail about the 
reasons for the banks decision than has already been shared  particularly as information 
about how banks reach such decisions are subject to some legitimate confidentiality.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman