DRN-2313618
The complaint
Mr U complains that Allianz Global Corporate & Speciality SE (Allianz) left him without 
suitable marine insurance when it chose not to renew his cover. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive summarised events 
below.
Mr U had a marine insurance policy which was underwritten by Allianz and was sold 
to him by a broker. 
A month before his policy was due to expire, the broker contacted Mr U and asked 
him to supply details of his sailing plans for the next 12 months. At the time, Mr U 
was in the United Kingdom and his vessel was overseas.
Allianz declined cover because Mr U was intending to cruise in a region where it had 
experienced adverse claims. 
Mr U said Allianz decision had left him in an impossible situation as his vessel would 
be uninsured. 
Mr Us broker provided two alternative insurance quotes.
One provided fully comprehensive cover with the condition that an out of water 
survey be carried out. The other provided third-party liability cover without the need 
for a survey. 
Mr U said an out of water survey wasnt possible because there wasnt a suitable 
location within a safe or reasonable distance to which he could take his vessel. And 
he said the journey would be dangerous as it was hurricane season. He added that a 
haul-out service would require the vessel to be insured. 
Allianz offered to extend Mr Us existing cover for one month to give him time to 
arrange a survey and alternative cover. 
Mr U declined its offer  he said he couldnt return to his vessel at such short notice 
and one month didnt provide enough time to suitably prepare for an unplanned 
voyage. 
Mr U complained to this service. Our investigator said Allianz had acted fairly as its 
up to the insurer to decide if they want to provide cover. And he was satisfied Allianz 
had offered a reasonable solution in extending cover by one month.
Mr U disagreed, saying he would provide expert evidence to support his complaint. Mr U has 
asked Allianz to provide cover for one day so he can arrange for his vessel to be hauled out 
for a survey.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
A condition of the policy is that the vessel shall navigate within the limits specified in 
the schedule. So, Im satisfied Mr U was aware his intended cruising range would be 
considered by Allianz when deciding whether to renew his insurance. 
The decision to provide or decline cover  having assessed the risks - is that of the 
insurer. What an insurer considers a risk can change overtime. So, even though 
Allianz had previously insured Mr Us vessel, I cant say it acted unfairly by choosing 
not to renew his cover on this occasion. 
Mr U said Allianz should have given him more notice that it wasnt going to insure his 
vessel. Im satisfied Allianz handled things in a timely manner as two days after Mr U 
submitted his cruising plans, it told Mr Us broker it wouldnt renew cover. 
Allianz didnt have to offer an extension to Mr Us cover. But doing so afforded him 
time to arrange suitable alternative cover which I think was reasonable. 
Mr U says one month didnt allow enough time to prepare his vessel and plan a 
voyage. But since then hes requested Allianz provide one days cover so he can 
arrange for his vessel to be hauled for an out of water survey. Im not persuaded he 
wasnt entirely prevented from taking the same action before his cover lapsed.
In any event, Allianz responsibility to Mr U would ordinarily have ceased when his 
insurance expired in September 2019  meaning Mr U would have had to arrange 
alternative cover despite what hes said are unfavourable weather conditions. Cover 
not being renewed is a foreseeable event, and I dont think its unreasonable to 
expect Mr U to plan for such an eventuality. 
I appreciate Mr U said he had commitments in the United Kingdom which meant he 
couldnt travel until later, but I dont think its unreasonable to expect of him, as the 
policy holder, to deal with matters relating to his vessel in a timely manner.  
I know this has been incredibly stressful for Mr U, but Im not persuaded it is fair to 
attribute this to Allianz having done something wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman