DRN-3892468
The complaint
Mr P complained that Astrenska Insurance Limited rejected his claim for accidental damage
to his electronic wireless car key (the key fob) under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
After Mr Ps key fob stopped working wirelessly, Mr P made a claim under his policy.
Astrenska, the insurer on Mr Ps policy, declined it. They said his policy only covered
accidental damage to the key fob, but they thought this was more likely to be wear and tear.
Mr P bought a replacement key fob and wanted Astrenska to reimburse him for that.
The investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and that Astrenska should
reconsider his claim. She thought that Astrenska hadnt acted fairly and reasonably as they
hadnt done enough to prove that the key problem was due to wear and tear. Astrenska
didnt agree and so I was asked to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 
2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows:
We dont decide if or how a key has been damaged, as that is a matter for the experts in
these situations, the insurers and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine if
the insurer has considered all the available evidence and whether they can justify their
decision to decline the claim.
Ive looked at the policy and it says:
Section 8  Key Assist
Key Assist is included to give you extra protection against expensive costs if your keys are
lost, stolen or damaged accidently. 
It later says in the What is not covered section:
Wear, tear or general maintenance of insured keys or locks.
So its clear that the policy doesnt cover wear and tear. And I dont think thats an unusual
clause in such policies.
An insurer is only liable for insured events. So if an insurer can show something isnt
covered under a policy, they can reasonably decline a claim. What an insurer needs to show
depends on the facts and circumstances of the case.
Astrenska said that Mr P hadnt shown that the key problem had been caused accidently.
They thought that it must have been wear and tear and so they didnt cover it. They said the
key was about ten years old, and when Mr P reported it he didnt say that the key fob had
been accidently damaged. Instead it had just stopped working wirelessly and Mr P didnt
know why that was. Accidently suggests an event or incident, but Mr P couldnt think of
anything like that having happened to the key fob. So Astrenska said this suggested that the
key stopping working wasnt due to accidental damage.
Mr P got a diagnostic report from a garage. The report said that there was an internal fault
with the key. Mr P said the garages mechanic said that the problem could potentially have
been due to water damage or battery leakage. But Mr P said he hadnt been aware of any
water damage to the key fob and hed checked the battery and it wasnt leaking.
The report couldnt confirm what had caused the internal fault, so it wasnt conclusive about
why the key fob stopped working. Astrenska thought there was no persuasive evidence that
the key fob stopped working due to being damaged accidently, and so it was more likely to
have been due to wear and tear.
I think that the evidence from Mr P and from the garage didnt support Mr Ps claim. So I
dont think it was necessary for Astrenska to obtain their own expert report to try to show
exactly what had caused the problem with the key fob. I think they were entitled to decide as
they did on the evidence they had. 
I do see that Mr P is likely to be disappointed by this, but I think that in declining his claim,
Astrenska acted reasonably in the circumstances on the evidence they had, and so I dont
intend to require them to do anything else. 
Since that provisional decision, neither Astrenska nor Mr P have commented on it, and so I 
see no reason to change my decision. That means that I dont require Astrenska to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
