DRN-4333096
The complaint
Miss D says Oplo PL Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss D took out a 60-month instalment loan from Oplo on 17 September 2020. It was for 
£15,000 and the monthly repayments were £387.44. The total repayable was £23,246.60. 
The purpose of the loan was debt consolidation.
Miss D says Oplo should never have given her this unaffordable loan. She had maxed out 
her overdraft on a number of different current accounts; she only made the minimum 
payment on her credit cards and had other loans. She was also gambling. This loan led to 
her debt spiralling, impacting her financial and mental health. She does not think Oplo 
carried out proper checks before lending.
Our investigator said Oplo was wrong to lend to Miss D. He concluded the lenders checks
were not proportionate and had Oplo had completed better checks it would have realised it
was most likely the loan would not be sustainably affordable for Miss D. He set out what 
Oplo should do to put things right.
Oplo disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said, in 
summary, its checks were proportionate. It did not require bank statements to support     
Miss Ds application and there is no regulatory obligation on a lender to obtain them. 
It added even if it had, it would only have requested them for Miss Ds main account and we 
have relied on statements for a second account she held. Its checks showed Miss D would 
be left with monthly disposable income of £1,315.09 and so could afford the loan  and she 
still could have based on our affordability calculation resulting in £260 of disposable income. 
It said it was not required to repay the debts Miss D intended to settle, or to obtain 
confirmation she had done so. Its assessment showed that even if she did not settle the 
debts (aside from the one it repaid directly) she could afford the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Oplo lent to Miss D required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Oplo had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss D. In
other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting it 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss D.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Oplo did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Miss D. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Ds
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Oplo make a fair lending decision?
- did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Oplo asked for certain information from Miss D before it approved the loan. It 
asked for details of her income and a payslip to verify this. It estimated her living costs using 
national statistics, taking into account the split in mortgage costs and bills between her and 
her partner. It also checked her credit file to understand her existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history. It asked about the purpose of the loan which Miss D said 
was to clear all her current credit card and store card debt. From these checks combined 
Oplo concluded the loan was affordable for Miss D and would leave her with of £1,315.09 of 
monthly disposable income.
I am not satisfied these checks were proportionate in the context of the value and term of the 
loan, and the results of Oplos initial credit check. I say this as the check showed Miss D had 
£14,012 in loans and £7,158 of revolving credit. She was using 92% of her available 
revolving credit and had made minimum payments 30 times in the last 36 months. She had 
four current accounts and was using an overdraft facility on three of those accounts. Oplo 
says that this indicated a stable financial position. But I am not of the same view. 
Whilst I accept Miss D had a positive payment history, I think Oplo ought to have been 
concerned Miss D was under some financial pressure and possibly reliant on credit cards 
and her overdrafts. I also think Oplo ought to have been concerned about the amount of her income Miss D was spending on credit at the time she applied. And so it should have sought 
better assurances that Miss D would be clearing other debts: the affordability assessment it 
has submitted to this service indicates that Oplo only ticked one of Miss Ds debts as 
consolidated which was a store card with a balance of £1465 and a monthly repayment of 
£43.95.
So, in the round I think Oplo ought to have carried out a fuller financial review. I appreciate 
Miss D said the loan was for debt consolidation but Oplo was not clearing the debts directly 
(bar one account) so I dont see that was a reason for it not to need to do better checks.
To understand what proportionate checks would most likely have shown I have looked at 
Miss Ds bank statements from three months prior to her application. I am not saying Oplo 
had to do exactly this, but it is a reliable way for me to recreate what better checks would 
likely have shown the lender. Miss D provided statements for her two main accounts. Oplo 
argues it would only ever have considered the primary account her income was paid into. 
But had it done this I would have expected it to ask about the frequent transfers between 
that and the second account I have statements for. 
Had it done so it would have seen that Miss D was gambling frequently although the value 
was not, as it says, a significant proportion of her salary. This might not in isolation have 
been a reason to decline the application, but taking into account all the circumstances here 
had Oplo had done better checks I think it ought to have realised there was a considerable 
risk giving Miss D this loan might cause her financial harm. 
There were mitigants it could have put in place to manage this risk  such as repaying her 
creditors directly as is industry best practice. It argues it was not obliged to do this  and I 
accept it is not a regulatory requirement - but as a responsible lender it may have thought to 
do this in the circumstances of this case. 
Oplo also says even if Miss D hadnt cleared her other debts she could have afforded the 
loan  but its analysis is based solely on pounds and pence affordability and does not 
consider if the repayments would have been sustainable  that is, made without further 
borrowing or causing other financial harm. And as this scenario would have meant Miss D 
would be spending around 33% on her income on credit commitments (excluding her 
mortgage) I think there would have been a high risk she would have faced financial 
difficulties going forward.
This is a finely balanced case and I anticipate Oplo would argue it cannot be held 
responsible if the borrower does not used the loan as planned, but that does not change its 
obligation to have obtained the assurances it needed that giving the loan would most likely 
not cause harm to Miss D. And I think here there were a number of concerns, as set out 
above, that when combined indicated that could be the case. This means I cant conclude 
that Oplo made a fair lending decision.
It follows I think Oplo was wrong to give the loan to Miss D. 
I havent seen any evidence Oplo acted unfairly towards Miss D in some other way. I note 
she brought a separate complaint, that is now resolved, about Oplos actions when she 
asked for a payment holiday on this loan. As this service has already considered that matter 
I have not reviewed it here.
Putting things right
It is fair that Miss D should repay the capital she borrowed as she had the benefit of that 
money. But it is not fair she should pay interest and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been given.
So Oplo should: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on this loan, and treat any
repayments made by Miss D as repayments of the principal. 
If this results in Miss D having made overpayments then Oplo should refund these 
overpayments to MIss D with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled.
If this results in there still being an outstanding balance then Oplo should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss D.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit file in relation to this 
loan once any outstanding capital balance has been repaid in full.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Miss D a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ds complaint. Oplo PL Ltd, trading as Oplo, must put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman