DRN-3617619
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as G has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFUM) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance 
claim. 
Mr C and Miss B, directors of G, have brought the complaint on Gs behalf. 
What happened
G held a commercial insurance policy with NFUM. G contacted NFUM to claim on its policy 
after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. G said events it traded at had been cancelled due to Covid-19, causing it a loss. 
G said it called NFUM and was told that it did have business interruption insurance, but this 
didnt include cover for cancelled events. 
G complained to NFUM. It said it had specifically requested cover for cancelled events and 
was unhappy its claim had been declined. 
NFUM sent G a final response letter which indicated that Gs policy had business 
interruption insurance included but that there wasnt cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
NFUM later reviewed the complaint and said this had been an error and G didnt have 
business interruption insurance as part of its policy.  
Unhappy with NFUMs response, G brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought 
NFUM had acted fairly in turning down Gs claim because she didnt think G held business 
interruption insurance cover with NFUM. 
G asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G has also complained about the sale of its policy because it said it specifically asked for 
cover for cancelled events. That is being dealt with in a separate decision so Im not going to 
comment on it any further here. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Gs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Commercial insurance offers protection from risks common to a business. Gs policy 
document includes the terms and conditions for the cover available, but the renewal 
documents show the parts of the policy that are operative. 
Gs policy schedule say that cover applies for the following areas:
Property
Money and Malicious Attack
Employers Liability
Public and Product Liability
Environmental Liability
Business Interruption insurance isnt listed as being covered by the policy which means G 
cant claim on that section. Moreover, even if G did have business interruption insurance 
cover, it wouldnt have covered the circumstances of Gs claim. As no other part of the policy 
would provide cover for the circumstances of Gs claim, I think NFUM have acted fairly and 
reasonably in turning down Gs claim. 
I recognise this isnt the answer G was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFUM to pay Gs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman