DRN-3790744
The complaint
Mr C complained about the advice he was given by Towergate Financial (West) Limited 
trading as Towergate Financial (Towergate) to make an investment in Elysian Fuels. The 
advice, which also involved Mr C selling the Elysian Fuels shares to a newly established 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP), has become the subject of an HMRC investigation. 
Mr C believes this will result in tax charges being levied against him.
What happened
Mr C worked as a self-employed financial adviser for Towergate. In 2014, Mr C says he was 
introduced to the idea of investing in Elysian Fuels by a colleague, who was also an adviser 
for Towergate. At the time, Mr C had two existing personal pensions with a combined value 
of around £49,000.
Towergate advised Mr C to purchase 45,000 shares at £1 each in a Limited company 
associated with Elysian Fuels. To make the investment, Mr C paid £7,470 from his savings 
and took a limited recourse loan of £39,218. The loan was from a company who were 
associated with the promoters of the Elysian Fuels scheme, F. Of the £46,688 invested, 
£1,688 was paid to a Limited Liability Partnership as a capital contribution to the Partnership.
At the same time Mr C was also advised to switch his two personal pensions to a new SIPP 
with James Hay. On 21 February 2014, James Hay confirmed receipt of funds totalling 
£47,560.90. Mr Cs share purchase was completed on 6 March 2014, and shortly afterwards, 
James Hay received instruction to transfer the 45,000 shares to the SIPP. In April 2014 
James Hay confirmed that £45,000 had been sent to Mr C for the purchase of his shares. 
Mr C didnt pay any tax on this.
In the following the years the investment in Elysian Fuels ran in to trouble. This resulted in 
the value of the shares falling and as a consequence, it appeared Mr C no longer needed to 
pay back the limited recourse loan.
In 2015, Mr C was contacted by HMRC about the transfer of the shares in Elysian Fuels to 
his SIPP. HMRC said it considered he might not have treated the arrangements correctly for 
tax purposes and would require further information from him.
Mr C complained to Towergate in April 2017 as he felt he had been poorly advised. 
Towergate acknowledged the complaint but said it didnt hold any information  it  asked 
Mr C to provide any documents he might have so it could consider the matter further. Mr C 
didnt respond and in 2020, a new complaint was submitted by a representative on his 
behalf. Towergate said Mr C had made his complaint too late so, Mr C referred the complaint 
to this Service.
Prior to the complaint being referred to our Service, HMRC indicated it may conclude the 
value of the Elysian shares was £0.12 when they were sold to individuals SIPPs. As 
I understand it, this valuation has arisen as the result of a challenge being brought by a 
group of investors. However, this has not been finalised and the matter is still ongoing.
Our Investigator informed Towergate that Mr C had raised his complaint within the relevant 
time limits  hed complained to Towergate in 2017, well within six years of the advice having 
been given. Although she noted Towergate had asked for more information, as no final 
response was given at the time, Mr C had made his complaint within the relevant time limits. 
Towergate accepted this.
The Investigator went on to uphold Mr Cs complaint. She didnt think the investment in 
Elysian Fuels was suitable for Mr C  it was too high risk and she didnt think Mr C had the 
necessary experience to understand or the capacity to withstand the risks involved. She 
thought Towergate ought to have known that the scheme would attract attention from HMRC 
and that Mr C releasing money from his pension was likely to be seen as an unauthorised 
payment. The Investigator recommended Towergate should compare Mr Cs position with 
the position he wouldve been in now but for the unsuitable advice to invest in Elysian Fuels. 
She also recommended Towergate should pay Mr C £400 for the trouble and upset caused. 
The Investigator also recommended that undertakings be drawn up to account for any tax 
Mr C may have to pay to HMRC in future as a result of the investment being sold to his 
SIPP.
Towergate didnt agree. It said Mr C was an experienced financial adviser, advising on 
pensions and investments, so he wouldve understood the investment and the level of risk 
associated with it. It also thought Mr C had likely done his own research into the investment 
arrangements before proceeding. Towergate said its adviser wouldnt have known about the 
future problems the investment scheme would face and said the issues had largely arisen 
due to misleading information provided by third parties, which it had no control over.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
Towergate accepts that it advised Mr C to invest in Elysian Fuels via a geared share 
purchase plan. And the secondary advice was for Mr C to switch his existing pensions to a 
SIPP and then use those funds to purchase the shares so the shares would be held in the 
SIPP. So, Ive considered whether that advice was suitable, taking into account relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what 
I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for 
Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Towergate's actions here.
PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Ive also considered the provisions in COBS 9, specifically COBS 9.2.1R, which sets out the 
obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments, and requires firms to obtain 
the necessary information regarding the consumers knowledge and experience in the 
investment field relevant to the advice; their financial situation; and their investment 
objectives. And COBS 9.2.2R, which requires firms, among other things, to take account of a 
customers preferences regarding risk taking, their risk profile and to ensure they are able 
financially to bear any related investment risks consistent with their investment objectives.
Ive also taken account of COBS 4.12, which says that unregulated collective investment 
schemes (UCIS) should not be promoted to ordinary retail clients. But they can be promoted 
to high net worth individuals or experienced, sophisticated investors. It isnt clear whether the 
Elysian Fuels investment was classified as a UCIS, but it shared similar characteristics 
including the high-risk nature of the investment, being illiquid, subject to counter-party risk 
and uncertain valuation. So, I think this is a relevant consideration here and I note that 
James Hay required Mr C to complete a statement confirming he was a self-certified 
sophisticated investor in order to facilitate the investment in the SIPP. So, it seems that the 
parties involved were treating the investment as such. 
Towergate provided documents to James Hay on 14 March 2014, which included the 
statement for self-certified sophisticated investors. Mr C signed the declaration to confirm he 
was a self-certified sophisticated investor on 10 March 2014. In doing so, he had to select 
which criteria he met, and he ticked the box next to the following statement:
I am working, or have worked in the two years prior to the date below, in a professional 
capacity in the private equity sector, or in the provision of finance for small and medium 
enterprises (please provide details)
Although Mr C was a financial adviser, I havent seen any evidence to suggest he worked in 
private equity  he was a financial adviser providing advice to retail customers on 
investments, pensions and protection but he says mostly on mortgages. It also doesnt 
appear he provided finance for small and medium enterprises and no further details were 
provided, which is what the statement required. So, based on what Ive seen I dont think 
Mr C wouldve met the requirements of being a self-certified sophisticated investor. Although 
this doesnt necessarily mean that the investment in Elysian Fuels shouldnt have been 
promoted to Mr C, as other exemptions can be available in law and under COBS to the 
promotion restriction, it seems to me that Mr C being a self-certified sophisticated investor 
was an important part of the process of selling the shares to his SIPP. If Towergate hadnt 
allowed a misleading self-certified sophisticated investor declaration to be made under its 
duty of care to Mr C, James Hay may not have accepted the purchase of the shares and 
their transfer into the SIPP.
Irrespective of the conclusions above, Im satisfied that Towergate advised Mr C to invest in 
Elysian Fuels. And although there is no suitability letter, I think the advice to switch Mr Cs 
pensions was for the sole purpose of facilitating the purchase of the Elysian Fuels shares 
into the new SIPP. This enabled Mr C to release £45,000 from his pensions, without paying 
any tax, and I think was clearly the intended result of the connected advice given to him. 
Having promoted the investment to Mr C, Towergate then advised Mr C to invest in it, 
meaning it was subject to the requirements under COBS Ive set out above to provide suitable advice. And having considered these requirements, I dont think the investment in 
Elysian Fuels or the connected advice to switch his pensions to a SIPP in order to purchase 
the shares was suitable for Mr C. Ill explain why.
In order to demonstrate that Towergate had complied with the requirements in COBS, 
I wouldve expected the adviser to have completed a fact-find and an attitude to risk 
assessment and explained his advice in a suitability letter. However, none of these 
documents are available. In the absence of this information, there is very little for me to go 
on when considering whether the advice was suitable for Mr C. However, weve asked Mr C 
about his circumstances, investment experience and risk appetite when the advice was 
given and Ive taken this into account.
At the time of the advice, Mr C was around 38 years old, he was married with two dependent 
children and had a mortgaged property. He told us that he had £50,000 savings in cash and 
his only previous investment experience was in Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs). Mr C 
had two small personal pensions with a combined value of around £49,000. Mr C says he 
was making contributions to one of his pensions though he doesnt recall how much.
Based on the limited information available, I dont think the investment in Elysian Fuels was 
suitable for Mr C. The Elysian Fuels investment was a complex, leveraged arrangement 
which resulted in him being invested in unlisted shares in a single unlisted company, and 
being exposed to significant tax risks. It was also a relatively newly formed company, and it 
had no track record of generating profit, so the venture was highly speculative. Although 
Towergate may consider Mr C only invested £7,470 of his own money, based on what 
I know about the geared share purchase plan, hed still be liable to repay the loan of £39,218 
at the end of the term, unless the shares increased significantly in value. So the leveraging 
didnt decrease Mr Cs risk, it actually increased it.
Mr C didnt have any experience of investing in schemes of this nature and I dont think he 
had the capacity to take such a risk with his only pension funds. Towergates advice to 
purchase the Elysian Fuels shares and switch them into the SIPP meant Mr Cs entire 
pension fund was invested in a single company within a single asset class with no 
diversification. I think investing his entire pension in such a high-risk strategy was wholly 
unsuitable for him. Even though Mr C was relatively young and had time to accumulate 
further pension funds, I dont think that meant he could risk losing all of his pension, which 
was a real possibility.
The pension switches and the investment advice led to Mr C releasing £45,000 from his 
pension before age 55 without him paying any tax. He had paid only £7,470 to make the 
initial investment. Regardless of the limited recourse nature of the loan, I think there was a 
significant risk involved with using a loan in this way to access funds from a pension 
scheme. There were several risk factors that ought to have been immediately apparent to 
the adviser; the loss of capital, a potential tax bill; potential liability to repay the loan and 
costs that might have arisen as a consequence. I think Towergate should have been aware 
of all of this and factored it into its thinking when assessing suitability. Overall, I think 
Towergate ought to have known that the arrangement could attract scrutiny from HMRC. 
That again is why I dont think Mr C should have been advised to enter into it.
Towergate insists that as a financial adviser, Mr C wouldve understood the risks and 
accepted them. It also believes Mr C wouldve conducted his own research into the scheme. 
But there is no suitability letter available or other supporting evidence, so I dont know if or 
how the risks of the scheme were presented to Mr C. Theres also no evidence to 
substantiate that Mr C did his own research into the scheme. And in the absence of this, 
I dont think its reasonable to assume that he did so. Ive taken into account that Mr C likely 
advised customers on pensions and investments, but I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that Mr C was familiar with or had advised on investments of this nature before 
or that he appreciated the specific risks associated with the transaction  Mr C hadnt 
invested in any similar scheme or UCIS in the past. So, I dont think its reasonable to say 
that Mr C wouldve fully appreciated and accepted the risks of the scheme he was being 
advised to invest in.
Overall, Ive seen nothing to persuade me that despite being a financial adviser, Mr C had 
the necessary degree of understanding and experience of this type of investment, which was 
complex and unregulated, such that he was able to make his own decision to proceed with it 
regardless of the advice he was given. And I dont think he was motivated to do so in any 
event. Nevertheless, Towergate advised Mr C to make the investment, so making Mr C 
aware of the risks (if in fact it did so) didnt absolve it from providing suitable advice. And as 
Ive said above, I dont think it was suitable advice for Mr C to invest any of his pension funds 
in this scheme because of the high-risk nature of it and the tax risks associated with it.
Ive considered whether Mr C wouldve gone on to invest in Elysian Fuels in any event,
even if he had been given clear advice against it. While Mr C was a financial adviser, as Ive 
said above, Mr C didnt have any experience of investing in a scheme of this nature. And 
while he may have understood that the scheme carried a higher risk than a regulated 
investment, he was risking his only pension here. So, I dont think Mr C would have acted 
contrary to the advice he was given if Towergate had made it clear it wasnt suitable for him 
and that he was exposing himself to significant risks  I dont think he could afford to take 
such a risk with his only pensions.
Im also satisfied that Mr C wasnt seeking out non-standard investments - the investment in 
Elysian Fuels was proposed to him by the adviser, he hadnt previously been interested in 
investing in it. I also havent seen evidence to demonstrate Mr C was unhappy with his 
existing arrangements; but if he wanted to achieve higher growth, he couldve instead looked 
into internal fund switches instead. And if he was seeking consolidation of the two pensions 
he didnt need to open a SIPP, he simply couldve switched one pension into the other. So, 
on balance, I think Mr C wouldnt have invested in Elysian Fuels if hed been advised against 
it and so the switch of his existing pensions wouldnt have occurred.
Towergate may argue that Mr C has not suffered any loss here, as he is unlikely to have to 
repay the loan and he received £45,000 from the SIPP  Mr C says he spent some of this on 
home improvements but still has around £20,000 left in cash. However, I think Mr C has 
most likely suffered a loss as he paid £7,470 of his own money to make the investment 
which he is unlikely to recover as the scheme has failed. He has also lost the benefit of 
investment growth on his existing pensions. 
Lastly, it seems likely that Mr C will be required to pay a tax charge to HMRC as a 
consequence of the advice he received from Towergate. In 2015, Mr C was contacted by 
HMRC. It advised him it was looking into his self-assessment tax return for the tax year 
ending April 2014. HMRC told Mr C it understood he may have transferred the shares in 
Elysian Fuels to another entity in return for cash without making entries on his tax return in 
relation to this. HMRC said it considered he might not have treated the arrangements 
correctly for tax purposes and would require further information from him to complete the 
investigation.
Mr C hasnt received further correspondence from HMRC about the matter since then. But 
Im aware that HMRCs stance on the matter is being directly challenged by a number of
investors, so it isnt surprising that it has paused taking action to recover tax owed at
present. But as it stands, Mr C has a reasonably held expectation that HMRC will levy a 
significant tax demand on him once its investigation has concluded. Ive seen evidence in 
relation to other affected customers in the same position as Mr C, who have been asked to pay unauthorised payment charges as a result of releasing pension funds in this way. So, 
I think Mr C will likely be required to pay extra tax to HMRC in connection with him releasing 
£45,000 from his SIPP, which Towergate advised him to do.
I think its fair that Towergate compensates Mr C for the future tax charge, as well as his 
other losses. I say this because I dont think Mr C wouldve made the investment in Elysian 
Fuels or switched his existing pensions but for Towergates unsuitable advice.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr C would have remained invested in 
his existing personal pensions.
I consider fair redress is to calculate and compare the notional position Mr C wouldve been
in if he had not been given the advice to switch his pensions and make the investment in
Elysian Fuels with the actual position he is in now.
In calculating Mr Cs actual position now, I propose that the value of the money he
released from his pension is the amount to be used, with no adjustment to bring that value
up to date. The reason I say this is because Mr C, rather than investing that money
elsewhere, spent it on home improvements and kept the remainder in cash. Therefore, 
I dont think it is appropriate to bring the value of that money up to date.
What should Towergate do?
Towergate should calculate the following values on the date of my final decision:
Notional position = A + B
A = Value of Mr C's two existing personal pensions if they had remained where they were.
B = Value of Mr Cs initial contribution of £7,470 to Elysian Fuels, which he would have 
retained if he hadnt invested in the scheme.
Actual position = D + E + F
D = Value of SIPP with James Hay at the date of calculation.
As the investment held in the pension is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on 
the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, 
I think it is reasonable to assume the investment has no current value and there is no 
prospect of any future return. I say this because the business failed several years 
ago. So it is fair to make no allowance for a current or future value. For this reason, 
the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.
E = Value of any interest Mr C holds in the Limited Liability Partnership. I consider this likely 
to be nil and I do not think there is any reasonable prospect of his interest in it having any 
value in the future.
F = Value of the money released from the James Hay SIPP from the sale of the Elysian 
shares to the SIPP (value to be used is the amount released with no allowance for
interest/growth as explained above).
If the notional position is greater than the actual position, then Mr C has suffered a lossequal to the difference.
If there is a loss, Towergate should pay into Mr Cs pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If Towergate is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Cs pension plan, it should pay that
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a
taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Cs actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at his selected retirement age  likely to be 20%. However, if Mr C would have been
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Towergate should provide details of its calculations to Mr C in a clear and simple format.
In addition to the above, Towergate should pay Mr C £400 for the trouble caused to him and
the worry of having HMRC involved with the scrutiny of his pension.
SIPP fees
If Towergate had given suitable advice Mr C wouldnt have the SIPP with James Hay. So, 
the SIPP only exists because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need to be removed from the SIPP. 
However, this is unlikely to be achievable. Third parties are involved, and we dont have the 
power to tell them what to do.
So, if the investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that
Towergate should pay Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees
(calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous pension providers are unable to calculate a notional value, then 
I consider the measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances and likely risk attitude.
Further information
Any additional sum paid into the current pension should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawals made from the current pension should be deducted from the notional
value in A so they cease to accrue any return in the calculation. To keep calculations
simpler, Ill accept if Towergate totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end
instead of deducting periodically.
Undertakings
Towergate should undertake to pay (if necessary) any extra amount (above the tax Mr C
wouldve been expected to pay if he had kept his existing arrangements) owed by
Mr C after HMRC concludes its investigation into the sale of the Elysian Fuels shares to his 
SIPP. To be clear, this includes any interest applied by HMRC up to the date of my final 
decision.
Mr C may receive a notice of assessment from HMRC asking him to pay an amount on 
account before HMRCs investigations conclude. If that happens, Mr C should provide 
evidence of this to Towergate, and Towergate should then pay to Mr C or HMRC the amount 
Mr C has been asked to pay HMRC. If the amount is paid to Mr C he should undertake to 
pay it to HMRC.
If an amount is paid on account Mr C should provide Towergate with an undertaking to pay 
to it any amount of refund he receives, following the conclusion of HMRCs investigations, in 
the event HMRC concludes less tax is due than what was paid on account. And Towergate 
should undertake to pay Mr C or HMRC any additional amount due in the event that 
following the conclusion of HMRCs investigations, HMRC concludes Mr C needs to pay 
more tax than he has paid on account.
The undertakings must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Towergate will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertakings.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above and provided to Mr C in settlement of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
Mr C should also be aware that by accepting my final decision, it could affect his legal
rights should any liabilities arise in respect of the limited recourse loan he used to purchase
the shares or otherwise. So, Mr C may want to consider getting independent legal advice
before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman