DRN-4304299
The complaint
Mrs S complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to pay her a switcher incentive payment.
What happened
Mrs S says she applied for a TSB bank account in February 2023 and as part of the switcher 
incentive she would receive a payment of £125 provided she met certain criteria which 
included using her new debit card, before 24 March 2023. Mrs S says she met the other 
switcher incentive requirements, but her debit card didnt arrive until after the March 2023 
deadline, so she wasnt able to make any payments using that card. 
Mrs S says when she complained, TSB told her she hadnt met the criteria, although it was 
not her fault the debit card hadnt arrived and in her view TSB should have sent this debit 
card by a more secure means. Mrs S wants TSB to honour the switcher incentive payment 
of £125 and given she has met the remaining conditions, it should pay her the additional £75 
that was also part of the incentive scheme.
TSB says the debit card was sent using the standard mail service to Mrs S on 7 February 
2023, but as she failed to make a debit card transaction before the 24 March 2023, she 
didnt qualify for the incentive payment. TSB says it isnt responsible for the fact the debit 
card wasnt received on time by Mrs S and there was no record of her contacting them to 
say she hadnt received it before the March deadline. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says she had seen evidence to show TSB had sent Mrs S both the debit card 
and PIN on 7 February 2023 and having done that, had met its obligations as it has no 
obligation to send these by any other means. The investigator says theres no record of Mrs 
S contacting TSB to enquire why the card and PIN hadnt arrived before the deadline date in 
March 2023. With that in mind the investigator felt as Mrs S hadnt met the switcher incentive 
conditions, TSB werent under any obligation to pay the incentive payments.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs S to miss out on a switcher scheme 
incentive payment, because her debit card didnt arrive in time. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider if TSB were at fault for Mrs S not meeting the terms and conditions 
of the switcher incentive scheme, because her debit card and PIN didnt arrive in time. 
Mrs Ss complaint centres around the fact she was refused a switcher incentive payment by 
TSB because she hadnt used her debit card before the 24 March 2023 deadline, even 
though she wasnt able to, as the debit card didnt arrive in time to do so. Mrs S has made 
the point that TSB should send the debit card and PIN by a more secure/guaranteed method 
of delivery as there are postal issues in her area. 
I understand the points Mrs S makes but Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I say this 
because I have seen evidence to show TSB posted her debit card and PIN separately on 7 
February 2023 to the correct postal address. Mrs S says these werent received until later in 
April 2023 post the deadline date. While I can understand the frustration this would have 
caused her, I cant hold TSB responsible for any postal delays nor can I tell TSB it must use 
a different postal method when it sends out such items, after all that is its standard practice 
and process. 
From the information and records provided by TSB, it is unclear why having applied for the 
TSB account in early February 2023, Mrs S hadnt contacted them to enquire why the card 
and PIN hadnt arrived before the deadline date of 24 March 2023, and only raised this with 
TSB in May 2023. 
Its reasonable to say part of the purpose of the application for the TSB bank account was for 
Mrs S to benefit from the switcher incentive payment and by her own admission, she had 
taken steps to ensure part of those conditions were met. With that in mind, I am satisfied in 
all likelihood Mrs S would have been aware of the terms of the incentive payment and if 
there was any uncertainty on her part of what other conditions applied, these would have 
been available on TSBs website for clarification. 
While Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of TSB here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman