DRN-3977966
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Assetz SME Capital Limited administered his Peer-to-Peer 
(P2P) lending accounts. He complains about a transfer of his invested funds in his 90 Day 
Access Accounts (90DAA) without warning and without his consent, and the failure to 
reinstate the funds when requested.
What happened
Mr C has invested in several accounts on Assetzs P2P lending platform and over a number 
of years. Two of the accounts were 90DAAs, a standard account and an ISA.  
In early April 2021, Mr C made a number of pending withdrawal requests from both his 
standard and ISA 90DAAs, totalling over £450,000, which following the notice period would 
be placed for sale and when sold, funds would be paid into his cash account. 
On 9 April 2021 Assetz emailed P2P lenders  including Mr C - with an update that included 
details of an Automated Operating Level (AOL) relating to the Access Accounts (AAs). 
On 7 June 2021, Mr Cs pending withdrawal requests were actioned immediately as the 
AAs investment passed the Maximum Supported Level (MSL). Mr C was sent an email at 
this time headed An important update regarding the Access Accounts.
Mr C understood his accounts had a 90 day notice period before the funds would be made 
available for sale. But when he logged on to his account in June 2021, he noticed that large 
sums were leaving his 90DAAs and the funds were appearing in his cash account. As he 
wasnt expecting to have any funds transferred until the notice period had passed, he 
contacted Assetz to ask for the funds to be reinvested but was told they couldnt be. He tried 
to reinvest the funds by returning them to his 90DAAs, but the vast majority of the cash was 
shown as awaiting investment and not earning interest. After this he decided to withdraw his 
funds from Assetz over the following week. 
Mr C raised a complaint as he was unhappy that his invested funds had been moved from 
an interest-bearing account, without warning and without his consent. He was also unhappy 
because of Assetzs failure to reinstate the funds immediately after the transfer came to his 
attention  despite his request for this to happen.
Assetz responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said:
- The AAs are designed to automatically adapt to market conditions and levels of cash 
within the accounts. At the point the accounts pass the MSL, the automated system 
will take a number of actions in order to reduce the excess cash  this includes all 
pending withdrawals being actioned immediately.
- Mr C had pending withdrawal requests on his standard and ISA 90DAAs which were 
requested in April 2021. All of these pending withdrawal requests were actioned 
immediately, in line with the process, on 7 June 2021, when the AAs passed the 
MSL. This was an automated process, and it had no control over the time the MSL 
was breached. An email was sent to all lenders affected by the change in the AOL as 
soon as it became aware.
- Given that it informed all lenders of the mechanics of the AOL on 9th April 2021 and 
its records show Mr C received the email and opened the specific information 
regarding the AOL, over 8 weeks prior to the AAs breaching the MSL, it didnt find it 
had had done anything wrong by returning funds to Mr Cs cash account.
As Mr C didnt agreed with the explanation given, he referred his complaint to this service for 
independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it. 
In summary he said:
- Assetz provided information to Mr C in April 2021 that explained the changes it was 
making to the operation of Access Accounts  - including the impact of cash levels 
reaching the MSL and if this level was reached any withdrawal requests would be 
actioned straightway in order to reduce the cash balance.
- Mr C had outstanding withdrawal requests pending on 7 June 2021 when the MOL 
was reached, therefore the sales were action and his funds were transferred to cash. 
- He acknowledged Mr Cs frustrations but viewed the withdrawal requests to be 
actioned in line with the business process at the time. He didnt find evidence to 
suggest Assetz needed to obtain consent to carry out the withdrawal request.
Mr C didnt agree with this response and requested an ombudsman reach a decision on his 
complaint. He provided further submissions. In summary he said:
- When he reviewed Assetzs 9 April 2021 update about the AOL, he was satisfied that 
he could continue his practice of giving and cancelling withdrawal requests without 
hindrance. 
- Within this update, Assetz also explained a new withdrawal fee that would apply. The 
information about this fee distinguished between the notice period in the AAs and the 
period when the investor has a withdrawal request. This informed his consideration of 
the rest of the email and the AOL web page  and formed his understanding that 
there was a difference between the notice period and when a withdrawal is being 
processed. 
- He now understands Assetzs AOL system was designed to return funds to investors 
whilst they were in the relevant notice period as well as when subject to a withdrawal 
request. But he had left open requests on notice because the updates made it clear 
to him that they would not be at risk of the AOL dumping them out.
- He was reassured by the 7 June update as this referred to a proportion of his cash in 
the AAs being returned  and it would only slightly reduce his total AA investments. 
He had no problem with a slight reduction in his investment, especially as he was 
being told that it would be pro-rata with other investors. But there was nothing in the 
email to suggest his investments on notice in the 90DAAs, would be materially 
affected.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015, under Section 69, requires any term in the contract 
which could have different meanings to be given the meaning most favourable to the 
consumer. He trusts that the Ombudsman would consider it fair and reasonable to 
adopt that approach in the circumstances of this complaint should there be any doubt 
about the meaning of the emails or web pages.  
The terms and conditions are an essential part of the contractual relationship in his 
Assetz, but he does not consider that the terms and conditions shed any additional 
light on his complaint which is very straightforward and effectively self-contained.
He made strenuous efforts to contact Assetz to resolve the issue but got no 
response. When he did get a response and invited Assetz to put the matter right he 
was roundly rebuffed.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs complaint relates to the way funds in his 90DAAs were returned to his cash account. I 
understand these products were originally designed for investors who wanted the possibility 
of accessing their money within a fixed time frame with the 90DDA offering a higher target 
interest rate because you have to wait a bit longer for your money. And in normal market 
conditions an investor will usually get access to their money 90 days after the request to 
withdraw it. But following the impact of the onset of the global pandemic in March 2020 there 
had been various changes to the operation of accounts to help with liquidity issues due to 
the market conditions.  
Relevant to this complaint is the update Assetz sent to Mr C on 9 April 2021, which provided 
information about further changes to the operation of AAs. Ive reviewed and considered the 
contents of this update. It is broadly about learnings from COVID-19 and covers the liquidity 
issues and move from normal market conditions in March 2020. It then goes on to discuss 
improvements going forward that will be made to the AAs  and makes the following 
statement:
...We are further improving the operation of the AAs to automatically adapt to market 
conditions and levels of cash within the accounts. The AAs will operate differently depending 
on the amount of cash held within them and will fall into one of the following categories: 
Minimum Operating Level, Funding Commitments Met Level and on or above the Maximum 
Support Level.
 
To help you understand what that means for you and your investments, and to increase 
transparency, weve explained on a dedicated web page how each of the levels work and 
the amount of liquidity you should expect going forward.
Assetz provided a link to its website which gave further information regarding the AOL. This 
explained how the AAs are designed to automatically adapt to market conditions and levels 
of cash within the accounts. It went on to say how the AAs will operate, depending on the 
amount of cash they hold in Normal Market Conditions and also in non-Normal Market 
Conditions in the presence of a withdrawal queue. It provided a table with the different levels 
of funding. The part of relevance to this complaint is when the maximum level is reached. 
Assetz explained the following about the MSL:
"Maximum Supported Level 
The Access Accounts will become over-funded and exceed the Maximum Supported Level if 
they hold too much cash. This is because the accounts seek to pay the target rate on both 
the cash portion of funds and the amount that is invested in loans. Therefore, if cash levels 
become too high, it will become more difficult to pay the target rate from the loan interest 
received from borrowers and will significantly reduce any surplus loan interest to the 
Provision Funds. Therefore, when the AA cash balance exceeds the Maximum Supported 
Level, the accounts will automatically take steps to reduce it. In this scenario, the Access 
Accounts would be closed to new investment until they are operating below the Maximum 
Supported Level. This includes both new funds invested on the platform and the 
reinvestment of interest and capital, which would be diverted back to an investors cash 
account. Withdrawal requests would be satisfied immediately using the AA cash balance and 
its also possible that any further excess funds may be periodically repaid to lenders on a 
pro-rata basis, based on their total AA holdings."By mid-2021, Mr C had developed a strategy which he had employed following the liquidity 
issues that had occurred over the previous year impacting withdrawals. He has explained he 
had substantial investments in the 90DAAs, and while he intended to keep his funds 
invested, he was aware of the liquidity difficulties which had led to queueing in the 90DAA 
after the 90 day notice period had expired. So, he decided on giving notice on the majority of 
his holdings in the 90DAA and then cancelling this notice before it expired. He made the 
requests in tranches, meaning he always had a proportion of his investment serving
notice which, if necessary, could be called on by not cancelling the notice. Essentially this 
allowed him to minimise the time in any withdrawal queue there may be. He says the sole 
reason for giving notice in this way was out of abundance of caution should he need to call 
on part of his investment in the 90DAA. But as it turned out he didnt need access to his 
funds. 
So, as I understand it, Mr Cs strategy was designed to give him flexibility to withdraw his 
investment should he need to and minimise the risk of being stuck in a queue. However, 
what actually happened wasnt what Mr C was expecting. This was because on 7 June 2021 
the MSL had been reached, and Assetz proceeded to automatically process open 
withdrawal requests in the 90DAAs. The requests Mr C had open still within the notice period 
were processed and funds moved to his cash account. While Assetz did email Mr C on 7 
June 2021 to explain the AAs were overfunded, this initially didnt make him think his 
withdrawals had been processed, it was only after viewing his account he noticed funds had 
moved. 
Assetz argue that it has done nothing wrong. It says the actions it took were in line with the 
information it provided to Mr C in April 2021 about the improvements it was making to the 
AAs. It says the system is automated, so as soon as the MSL was reached the pending 
requests were actioned  including Mr Cs. It says as it was an automated process, it was 
unable to prevent or reinstate the funds as Mr C requested. 
Mr C disagrees. He says the information he was given didnt alert him to the possibility of his 
funds being de-invested before the notice period ended. Rather, he was reassured by the 
information Assetz provided that he would still able to follow his intended strategy without 
hindrance.    
Did Assetz do anything wrong?
Ive reviewed the available evidence to look at whether Assetz misled Mr C and reassured 
him pending requests from 90DAAs that would in the notice period wouldnt be impacted by 
the AOL. The information that was provided in the April 2021 update and website link does 
explain the reasons why Assetz was making changes to help the AAs adapt to changing 
market conditions. There is some evidence that Mr C was informed of the possibility of his 
withdrawal requests being satisfied before the notice period had ended. This information is 
contained on the MSL section of the website  this says where the maximum level has been 
reached Withdrawal requests would be satisfied immediately.  I note that the information 
provided doesnt cover the specific circumstances of the way Mr C was using his accounts to 
request and cancel withdrawal in the notice period. But equally the strategy Mr C was 
following wasnt something, in my view, that Assetz expected account holders to follow in the 
usual operation of the 90DAAs. 
Ive noted Mr Cs comments that the information within the updates gave him the impression 
he would be able to continue with this strategy unaffected. He has pointed to the information 
given about the new withdrawal fee which he says differentiates between funds being 
withdraw and funds on notice to withdraw. I note in this section of the update Assetz did 
explain you will not be charged a fee whilst serving the notice period in the 30 Day and 90 
Day Access Accounts. And this supported Mr C understanding there was a difference between the active withdrawal requests and notice periods. Although this information came 
from the section regarding a new fee, Mr C has argued this also applied to the information 
about the AOL. He has also said as withdrawals requests arent defined, he understood this 
term to only relate to active requests. This in turn has led to him to interpretation on how the 
MSL would operate to differentiate between notice and active requests.   
Having considered all of the points Mr C makes here, I dont agree the information provided 
by Assetz is misleading.  He says it was reasonable for him to understand from the 
information provided that the reference to withdrawal requests being actioned immediately in 
the MSL section didnt relate to requests that were still in the notice period. But I think it is 
important to consider the context of the information in the section titled Access Accounts 
and the linked website page. I refer specifically to the parts relating to the MSL, including the 
overall message about overfunding and holding too much cash. Mr C has given an 
explanation as to why he interpreted the April 2021 notice in the way he did. It seems he 
relied on a separate fee section to establish his pending requests would be unaffected by the 
AOL. Having read the update, while overall they relate to AAs, the two sections are 
standalone and I dont think it was Assetz intention for them to be read in conjunction as 
there is no clear link to say they should be read together. So, while I acknowledge why Mr C 
came to the conclusion he did, I dont agree its reasonable to use information from the fee 
section to support that Assetz provided misleading information about how the MSL would 
operate. 
Ive also considered Mr Cs comments that the 7 June 2021 update didnt give him an 
understanding that his withdrawals would be or already had been actioned. This was an 
update to all investors in the AAs. It gave information about there being no capacity to 
accept new invested funds and a proportional returning of cash to all investors due to the 
overfunding. It doesnt address the scenario where investors, like Mr C, had pending 
withdrawals. Mr C interpreted this to mean his withdrawals were unaffected by the over 
funding. In light of his interpretation of the April 2021 update, it is understandable why he 
came to this conclusion. But again, I dont think this meant Assetz misled him. Whilst the 
actioning of his withdrawal was linked to the funding position, Assetz has explain the 
processing of the withdrawals was automated based on the MSL being reached. But I dont 
think the fact there was no specific notice given means Assetz has acted incorrectly in 
processing the withdrawals. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions that form the basis of the relationship between Assetz 
and Mr C. But I havent found the specific circumstances regarding the issues subject to this 
complaint are covered explicitly. Indeed, in Mr Cs submissions, he concedes that the terms 
and conditions do not shed any additional light on his complaint. Mr C says any term in the 
contract which could have different meanings should be given the meaning most favourable 
to the consumer. Im not persuaded that in the circumstances of this complaint, there is a 
term that has been given a meaning that is unfavourable to consumers. In my view, the 
issues here relate to a genuine misunderstanding of the April 2021 update, but for the 
reason given, I dont think Assetz is at fault for this.   
Ive also considered the broader picture of the what happened - and Im conscious of the fact 
Mr C did make requests to withdraw funds. At the time the MSL was reached Mr C had 
outstanding withdrawal requests that had been on notice for around 60 days. Without explicit 
knowledge of his strategy to cancel, this would suggest he was intending withdraw funds  
and he had been waiting for the notice period to expire to do so. While I appreciate that he 
didnt necessarily intend to withdraw and instead cancel during the notice period, this doesnt 
stop the fact an intention to withdraw had been made. So, on face value, and as far as 
Assetz was aware, Mr C wanted to withdraw his funds when he made the requests in April 
2021. While things didnt work out as Mr C intended, I dont think this necessarily means 
Assetz must be at fault for this. He was attempting to operate his account in a way that wasnt in line with the expected operation  i.e. you would only make a withdrawal request if 
you intended to actually withdraw funds. If Mr C had intended to stay invested, the only way 
he could achieve this would be not to make withdrawal requests.  I understand the reasoning 
behind the strategy he adopted, but this wasnt something Assetz directly influenced or 
encouraged him to do. I think it is reasonable Assetz didnt cover the scenario where 
investors may be looking to cancel withdrawals in the notice period. While it is possible 
investors could change their mind and cancel a request, this isnt an expected behaviour but 
what I view as an exception. So, it doesnt surprise me that clearer information wasnt 
provided on this. 
As I havent found Assetz did anything wrong here processing the withdrawals, I cant say it 
acted unreasonable by not reinstating the money or putting things right as Mr C requested. 
So, while he is unhappy about this, as I havent found Assetz made an error I dont think it 
acted unfairly by not doing what Mr C asked it to. I appreciate Mr C feels strongly that his 
queries and attempts to get funds reinstated werent dealt with correctly when he first raised 
the matter. I acknowledge that he was unable to make contact when he first noticed the 
funds had moved due to telephone lines being closed and the subsequent refusal to 
reinstate funds when he did make contact the next day.  But as I havent found that there 
was a failing by Assetz, I dont find there was a further failing by it not reinstating the funds or 
acting on the instructions Mr C gave when he first notice the funds in his cash account. 
In conclusion, I havent found that Assetz is at fault or has treated Mr C unfairly by the 
actioning of the withdrawals from his invested funds in June 2021. So, I dont find that it 
needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman