DRN-2252748
The complaint
B is a charity. It complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly refused to offer it a 
Community Account with free banking.
What happened
B asked Barclays to re-categorise its business current account as a Community Account 
with free banking, believing the charity met the banks advertised criteria. 
Barclays said B wasnt eligible for a Community Account. The bank said one of the criteria 
for such an account is that the organisation should have no more than three officials, and B 
has more than this.
B complained to Barclays, saying that the charity has only three officers and the bank was 
wrongly counting its trustees as officials. The bank said it was correct to include the trustees. 
Unhappy with the banks response, B referred its complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the evidence and arguments from both parties and concluded 
that Barclays hadnt acted unreasonably. He said the banks eligibility requirements for a 
Community Account were a commercial decision, and he didnt think it was unreasonable for 
the bank to regard trustees as officials. As B has nine trustees, the investigator didnt think 
the bank had done anything wrong in saying B wasnt eligible.
B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It pointed to a Charity Commission 
publication which distinguishes between the roles of officers and other trustees. B said 
dictionary definitions seem to regard the terms officer and official as interchangeable. B 
also said it knows of other charities that would exceed Barclays eligibility limit if their 
trustees were included, but they do hold Community Accounts. It pointed to one nearby 
charity in particular.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im sorry to tell B that Ive reached the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
Barclays is entitled to set its own conditions for eligibility for free banking. The bank says it 
includes trustees in the number of officials of a charity. I think Barclays is entitled to interpret 
its own criterion in this way, and I dont think the bank is acting unreasonably in doing so.
The Charity Commission guidance for trustees discusses the responsibilities of trustees who 
take on officer roles such as chairs and treasurers. Im not persuaded we can simply replace 
officer with official here and thereby conclude that the guidance implies that other trustees 
cant be considered officials. But even if Im wrong about this, I dont think the existence of 
the guidance can override Barclays commercial discretion to administer its own eligibility 
criteria for free banking. 
Its not my role here to comment on the banking facilities that Barclays has provided to other 
organisations. Again, the bank has commercial discretion, subject to the law, to provide free 
banking as it wishes, or to continue providing it even if the current criteria would otherwise 
now exclude those organisations.
I realise that the trustees will be disappointed by my decision. I appreciate that B is a charity 
and the fees charged on its business account add to its operating expenses. But I find that 
Barclays isnt obliged to offer B a Community Account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman