DRN-2089978
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited handled her 
request for voluntary termination of her car finance agreement. Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trades in this case as Audi Finance.    
What happened
In March 2017 Miss M took out a hire purchase agreement with Audi Finance. She says that, 
in or about September 2019, her circumstances changed, with the result that she could no 
longer afford the monthly payments. She contacted Audi Finance to discuss ending the 
agreement. 
Audi Finance sent Miss M a termination pack, which Miss M completed and returned. She 
didnt feel however that the process had been handled well. Specifically, she says Audi 
Finance wrongly said shed failed its security checks; it hadnt explained that she would have 
to pay any shortfall under the agreement within 14 days; and it didnt contact her to discuss a 
repayment plan. 
Audi Finance agreed that it had wrongly told Miss M that she hadnt passed its security 
screening, when in fact she had. It offered her £50 in recognition of that. It said however that 
it had made Miss M aware that any shortfall needed to be paid within 14 days. 
Miss M referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought that the compensation offered in respect of the security checks was fair and didnt 
recommend Audi Finance do anything further to resolve that issue. 
The investigator noted that, whilst Audi Finance hadnt referred to the 14-day payment 
period when Miss M first got in touch, it did make it clear in later calls and in its 
documentation when payment would be due. 
He thought that Audi Finance had delayed in contacting Miss M to try to arrange a payment 
plan and recommended that it pay Miss M a further £50 in recognition of that. 
Audi Finance accepted the investigators recommendation, but Miss M didnt. She said 
specifically that Audi Finance had agreed to remove credit reference information but hadnt 
done so. The investigator reviewed that point but concluded that the agreement related only 
to events before the agreement was ended. It hadnt agreed to remove subsequent 
information; credit information had been correctly and fairly recorded.      
Miss M asked that an ombudsman review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for 
similar reasons. 
I can see that it might have been frustrating for Miss M to be told, wrongly, that she hadnt 
provided the correct security information. I dont believe however that this merits any further 
compensation beyond the £50 that Audi Finance offered. 
Audi Finance didnt initially set out the payment arrangements in detail and in particular that 
payment would be required within 14 days. I dont believe it was required to, since that 
information was provided in good time for Miss M to decide how, if at all, it might affect her 
decision about how to proceed. In any event, I dont believe it affected the overall position or 
caused Miss M any significant distress or inconvenience. 
I agree too with the investigators conclusions about credit information, and for similar 
reasons. Audi Finance hasnt treated Miss M unfairly in the way it dealt with this part of her 
complaint. 
There were however some delays in contacting Miss M at what must have been a difficult 
time for her. I agree that she should receive some compensation for that, but I think that the 
£50 recommended by the investigator is fair in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
I will make a formal award in the respect of the additional £50 recommended by the 
investigator, so that Miss M can enforce it, should she need to. I dont intend to make any 
specific award about repayment of any outstanding amounts; I simply remind Audi Finance 
of the requirement to approach any discussions about a repayment plan positively.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Miss Ms complaint, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited should pay Miss M £50.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman