DRN-3299609
The complaint
Mr K complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) hasnt fairly valued a 
vehicle following a claim on his Taxi Plus insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K insured a vehicle he used as a taxi, via a policy underwritten by Haven. In August 2021 
he was unfortunately involved in an accident, and the vehicle was recovered to a police 
compound. Haven assessed the damage and deemed the vehicle to be a total loss. Initially 
Haven offered £7,190 in settlement of the claim (less the excess) and said it had used an 
industry trade guide to determine the pre-accident value of the vehicle. Mr K wasnt happy 
with the offer and asked Haven to reconsider. The insurers engineer then valued the vehicle 
at £8,000  so Haven increased its offer by £810. 
Mr K disputed the valuation, believing the vehicle to be worth much more  and a complaint 
was raised about the final offer. He asked Haven to consider loss of earnings, as hed been 
paying to hire a replacement vehicle while the settlement amount was contested. Mr K also 
told Haven over £5,000 worth of personal belongings had been in the taxi at the time of the 
accident. As those possessions had never been returned to him, he sought to recover that 
loss from Haven too. Haven responded to say it considered the settlement offer to be fair. 
The insurer didnt think it was liable to cover his hire costs, but said it was willing to give him 
the offer amount as an interim payment. Haven also said its agent hadnt found any 
belongings in the taxi when it was collected from the police compound. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr K referred his complaint to our service for review. An 
investigator here considered everything and didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. In 
his view Haven had made a reasonable offer to settle the claim. He also didnt think Haven 
was at fault for Mr Ks missing belongings. Mr K didnt accept the investigators view, so the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate my answer will 
come as a disappointment to Mr K, but Ive explained why Ive reached that outcome below. 
The role of our service in complaints about valuations isnt to determine the exact value of a
vehicle, but rather to decide if an insurer has made a reasonable offer in line with the terms
and conditions of the policy. Mr Ks policy pays market value in the event of a total loss  
which the insurer defined as the cost of the replacing Your Taxi with one of similar make, 
model and specification, taking into account the age, mileage and condition. Havens terms 
also say, to determine market value, it would typically request the advice of an engineer and 
refer to guides and any other relevant sources. 
Generally, we find using the trade guides or an engineers opinion to be a fair way to assess 
a vehicles market value. We do consider other evidence, including adverts, but tend to find 
the guides persuasive  as theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. An 
experts bespoke valuation can also be a persuasive indication of what a vehicle was worth 
pre-accident. 
 
Mr K said he believes the vehicle was worth £16,000 but hasnt sent in any documentation to 
support that. He appears to be relying on the value that was quoted on his Statement of 
Fact. But that was just an estimated value he gave his broker. Given Mr K paid not much 
more than that for the vehicle in 2016 when it was nearly new, and at the time of the 
accident it had over 150,000 miles on the clock, that value seems unlikely. The online 
adverts I saw, for equivalent vehicles, also didnt support that estimate. Instead, I found 
Havens offer wasnt out of kilter with the prices advertised, which can be higher than what a 
vehicle actually sells for.
The three applicable trade guides we use gave a market value for this vehicle at the date of 
loss of £8,040, £6,625 and £6,218. I havent seen anything that persuades me it would have 
been reasonable to deviate from them, or from the engineers assessment. So, as Havens 
offer is within the range given by the guides (close to the top valuation in fact), Im satisfied 
its a fair and reasonable amount. 
Haven told Mr K within a few days of the claim being raised that his vehicle would likely be 
written off and the offer would be around £7,000. It then made him a fair offer in settlement 
of the claim three weeks later. On reviewing the claim notes, I havent found any 
unreasonable delays in that process. The revised offer was made a few weeks after that, but 
the insurer was always clear that Mr K could take the amount offered as an interim payment. 
I appreciate that Mr K paid to hire another vehicle, to allow him to continue with his taxi work 
 but a courtesy one wasnt included under the terms of his policy (as this was a total loss). 
He also chose not to accept an interim payment while he disputed the offer, which would 
have helped mitigate his losses. So, as Haven made Mr K a fair offer within a reasonable 
time period, I dont consider the insurer is liable for the hire costs he incurred, or any loss of 
earnings.  
Mr K has said he had valuable belongings in his vehicle at the time of the accident. Ive seen 
the frequency with which he contacted Haven about recovering them  and also that the 
police didnt allow him to collect them from the compound in person due to Covid restrictions. 
Ive not seen any correspondence from Mr K where he told Haven exactly what he thought 
had been left in the vehicle, or any evidence to support the value of the possessions. But 
there isnt any cover for the loss of those items under his policy, and when Havens agent 
collected the vehicle from the police it told the insurer there werent any belongings found 
inside. This is supported by the checklist completed on collection by Havens agent. 
I can only imagine how upsetting it must have been to not get those things back quickly 
following the accident. Im also not sure how Mr K fared when he spoke to the police directly 
about locating the missing items. Haven did attempt to assist Mr K in getting his things back, 
by putting him in touch with its agent. But, as I havent seen anything that persuades me 
Haven was at fault in that matter, or to dispute what the agent reported when the vehicle was 
collected, Im not directing the insurer to cover any costs involved in replacing the 
belongings.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Haven Insurance Company 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman