DRN-3356562
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is that he was mis-sold a mortgage endowment policy and a level term 
assurance (LTA) policy when he applied for a mortgage in 1994. Barclays Bank UK PLC is 
responsible for this complaint.
In settlement of the complaint, Mr G wants to be paid £55,000  the full amount of the 
mortgage the policies were associated with.
What happened
In 1994 Mr G and a relative jointly applied for a mortgage to purchase a property owned by 
older relatives, which was going to be arranged on an interest-only basis. The mortgage was 
to be for £55,000 and appears to have been applied for over a term of 25 years. They were 
each sold an endowment policy for half the amount of the mortgage to repay their share of 
the capital and to protect half of the mortgage in the event of death. To protect the other half 
of the mortgage in the event of death, Mr G and his relative were each sold LTA policies. 
There is a dispute from the parties about how this mortgage was arranged. Barclays 
established from its records in the early 2000s that the mortgage Mr G had in place at that 
time had been on a repayment basis from the outset. However, Mr G provided a copy of the 
mortgage offer from 1994 which showed it was intended to be on an interest-only basis. 
Mr G also mentioned that the mortgage had been changed to repayment when the relative 
he bought the property with was removed from the title and mortgage. As neither party 
provided any documentation from the early period of the mortgage, we looked at Land 
Registry information about the property title. 
The information contained within the property title detailed that older relatives of Mr G bought 
the property in 1984. It appeared that the purchase of the property by Mr G and his relative 
didnt happen in 1994. Rather, Mr G bought the property on his own three years later in 
1997. It appears that he used a mortgage with Barclays to complete the purchase and that 
the property was re-mortgaged to another lender in 2010.
However, subsequent information provided by Land Registry has confirmed that the 1994 
purchase by Mr G and his relative did go ahead. This would indicate that the 1994 
interest-only mortgage likely went ahead and then Mr G re-mortgaged into his sole name in 
1997.
Mr G initially complained about the sale of the policies in 2002. The first final response letter 
was issued by Barclays in 2004. There was continued correspondence about the matter over 
the following 15 years.
In 2004 Barclays upheld the complaint about the LTA policy as it was not suitable for a 
repayment mortgage. It offered a refund of premiums, less the equivalent cost of life cover 
for the repayment mortgage, plus interest. It doesnt appear that it responded to the 
complaint about the mortgage endowment policy. Mr G didnt accept the offer and continued 
to pursue the complaint. In the autumn of 2005 Barclays issued a new offer. This consisted 
of an updated calculation for the LTA refund plus a sum to compensate him for the extra 
costs an endowment mortgage would have involved when compared to a repayment 
mortgage. Mr G didnt accept this offer either.
In 2007 Barclays wrote to Mr G and explained that its offer in respect of the endowment 
policy in 2005 had been wrong. While Mr G had paid more for the endowment mortgage 
than he would have for an equivalent repayment mortgage, hed actually gained in respect to 
the capital position. As such, he hadnt suffered a loss from having an endowment mortgage. 
It offered Mr G £150 compensation for having made this mistake and any confusion it may 
have caused him. Mr G didnt accept the offer.
In 2012 Mr G raised his complaint again. Barclays declined to investigate. However, as a 
gesture of good will, it reinstated its offer in relation to the LTA and compensation. Mr G was 
also offered the opportunity to send Barclays evidence that the second endowment policy, 
which it believed had been sold to his relative, was actually his policy. Mr G accepted the 
offer, but attempted to place conditions on it. Barclays was not willing to allow this and gave 
him another opportunity to decide if he wanted to accept the offer as it stood. He accepted 
the offer as it stood, however, he also informed Barclays that the mortgage hadnt been 
arranged on a repayment basis, rather hed converted it to repayment some years after it 
had started.
In early 2014 Barclays changed its offer for the endowment policy. This was because the 
mortgage had been arranged on a repayment basis, rather than an interest-only one. As 
such, the endowment policy had not been needed as a repayment vehicle. So Barclays 
offered Mr G a refund of the endowment premiums paid, plus interest on each premium to a 
date one month beyond the calculation date. From that sum, Barclays deducted the then 
current surrender value of the endowment policy.  Income tax was also deducted from the 
interest payment. Mr G didnt accept the offer. 
Mr G raised his complaint again in 2016. In early 2017 Barclays responded by confirming 
that it had investigated the complaint thoroughly and had made offers of redress in 2012 and 
2014. It highlighted that Mr G had accepted the earlier offer and then confirmed that the offer 
relating to the mortgage endowment made in 2014 was still available if he wanted to accept 
it.
The policy matured for around £8,000 in 2019. The maturity value was so low because 
premiums hadnt been paid since 2004. 
Shortly thereafter, Mr G complained about the sale of the endowment and LTA again. This 
time he complained to the life office to which the endowment had been transferred and 
which had paid out the maturity value. The life office set out the history of the complaint, but 
it didnt consider it afresh. It said that the offer for the endowment mis-sale was still open to 
Mr G to accept if he wanted to. 
Following the complaint being referred to this service, there were questions about whether it 
fell within our jurisdiction to consider. One of my ombudsman colleagues considered whether 
we had the jurisdiction to consider the complaint; she concluded we did. As such, one of our 
investigators considered the merits of the complaint. He confirmed that he wouldnt be 
considering the sale of the second mortgage endowment policy Mr G had mentioned, 
because that policy hadnt been sold to Mr G, but rather to the relative with whom he had 
been planning to buy the property. In relation to the redress Barclays had offered Mr G, the 
investigator was satisfied it was fair. 
Mr G didnt accept the investigators findings and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. He said there were several errors in the investigation; this was because he 
didnt think the investigator had understood that the policy had been mis-sold because hed been told the mortgage would be paid off and he would receive an additional £16,000. Mr G 
maintained that the mortgage had been arranged on an interest-only basis, not repayment.  
In addition, as he wasnt liable to pay tax, Barclays shouldnt be deducting tax from the 
interest payment. 
I issued provisional decisions on 16 November 2021 and 1 December 2021, the second of 
which superseded the first due to further information becoming available. Below is an 
excerpt of the 1 December 2021 provisional decision, setting out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. 
As I explained in my previous provisional decision, I wont be commenting on the sale of the 
endowment and LTA that were sold to Mr Gs relative in 1994. That is because those 
policies were set up in the relatives name and so Mr G doesnt have the right to complain 
about them.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Again, as I explained in my previous provisional decision, the mortgage endowment and LTA 
arrangement that was proposed in 1994 was quite a common arrangement where two 
unmarried people were buying a property together on an interest-only basis. In principle the 
arrangement was fine for the mortgage that was proposed in 1994, as long as Mr G and his 
relative were willing to accept some risk associated with their mortgage repayment. 
Barclays accepted many years ago that the policies Mr G was sold in 1994 werent 
appropriate. It offered to compensate Mr G. In relation to the LTA, it compared the amount 
Mr G would have paid for an appropriate policy for the repayment mortgage he actually took 
out and refunded the difference plus interest. This was reasonable in the circumstances of 
the property being his relatives home. Mr G accepted that offer when it was renewed in 
2012. I have noted that he has said he felt pressured to accept the offer at that time, but the 
evidence available to me doesnt indicate Barclays acted inappropriately in relation to the 
renewal of that offer.
In regard to the endowment policy, Barclays initially calculated redress on the basis of a 
comparison between an endowment mortgage running to 2004 and an equivalent repayment 
mortgage. This resulted in no loss being established. Later Barclays offered a refund of 
premiums plus interest, less the surrender value of the policy. 
Based on what it now appears likely happened with the mortgage arrangements, neither of 
these offers was entirely correct. Rather redress should have been calculated by a 
combination of the two methods. The initial part of the calculation should compare the 
position Mr G would have been in with that which he would have been in, had he and his 
relative taken their joint mortgage on a repayment basis. 
However, as Mr G kept his policy after he re-mortgaged the property on a repayment basis, 
Barclays would usually have calculated the loss as D minus E where:
A = the loss identified by carrying out a loss calculation in accordance with the regulators 
guidance Handling Mortgage Endowment Complaints (known as RU89), using a nil 
surrender value. This calculation should be completed for the period from 1994 to 1997 
when the policy was used for Mr Gs mortgage. 
B = a refund of the premiums paid to the policy from the date the policy ceased to be used 
for the mortgage until 2004 when Mr G stopped paying premiums (the calculation date). C = interest* at 8% simple per year on the premium in B from the date of payment to the 
calculation date.
D = A + B + C 
E = the surrender value of the policy in 2004 when Mr G stopped paying premiums to the 
policy. 
*If Barclays considers it is required by HMRC to deduct income tax from any interest paid, it 
should provide Mr and Mrs A with evidence of the deduction, which they can use for HMRC 
purposes if required.
I would make Mr G aware at this stage that this redress calculation may result in a lower 
amount being owed to him than the current offer by Barclays of a full refund of premiums 
plus interest. As Barclays will likely have to make further enquiries of the product provider to 
complete the new calculation and this may take a period of time, Mr G may wish to consider 
whether to approach Barclays to accept the existing offer. 
Mr G has mentioned that he doesnt pay tax and so Barclays shouldnt be taxing the interest 
on the offer it has made. Barclays is not in a position to determine the tax status of 
consumers. It will follow the guidance it has received from HMRC as to the taxation of 
interest and if Barclays considers it is required by HMRC to deduct tax from any interest 
payments, that is not something we would interfere with. That said, if Mr G decides to accept 
its offer, Barclays will provide him with the necessary information and documentation he 
would need if he wished to reclaim the tax from HMRC.
Mr G didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied that he received it and had 
the opportunity to respond.
Barclays didnt accept my second provisional decision. It provided a further copy of the file 
note from early in its complaint file in which it was stated that Mr Gs mortgage had always 
been on a repayment basis. It was unable to provide any evidence to support this statement 
from its systems or mortgage records. It also provided information from the life assurance 
company that now owns the portfolio of endowment policies that had been recommended in 
1994. This was a client record for Mr Gs relative with whom he had taken his mortgage in 
1994. It didnt show any policies on that client record. Barclays put forward that this 
evidenced that the relative hadnt taken out the endowment recommended and supported 
that the mortgage had been arranged on a repayment basis. 
Following receipt of this information, we asked some questions of the life assurance 
company. It was clear that at some point Mr Gs relative had at least applied for a policy with 
the life assurance provider, as it had a record of him as a client. So we asked whether the 
client record being blank meant that no policies had ever existed, or whether it just meant 
that none existed at the time of the enquiry. It was confirmed that the latter was the case and 
the individual had held endowment policies in the past.
This information was provided to Barclays as it supported that the joint mortgage had most 
likely been on an interest-only basis and that it was the mortgage in Mr Gs sole name that 
had been on a repayment basis. Barclays asked that it be given some time to make further 
enquiries and confirmed that it would make any further response it wanted to by 7 March 
2022 at the latest. No further response was received, and the complaint was passed back to 
me to consider for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the additional information, I havent changed my conclusions about 
the likely mortgage arrangements and what the appropriate redress is in this case. 
Putting things right
The initial part of the calculation should compare the position Mr G would have been in with 
that which he would have been in, had he and his relative taken their joint mortgage on a 
repayment basis. As Mr G kept his policy after he re-mortgaged the property on a repayment 
basis, Barclays would usually have calculated the loss as D minus E where:
A = the loss identified by carrying out a loss calculation in accordance with the regulators 
guidance Handling Mortgage Endowment Complaints (known as RU89), using a nil 
surrender value. This calculation should be completed for the period from 1994 to 1997 
when the policy was used for Mr Gs mortgage. 
B = a refund of the premiums paid to the policy from the date the policy ceased to be used 
for the mortgage until 2004 when Mr G stopped paying premiums (the calculation date). 
C = interest* at 8% simple per year on the premium in B from the date of payment to the 
calculation date.
D = A + B + C 
E = the surrender value of the policy in 2004 when Mr G stopped paying premiums to the 
policy. 
*If Barclays considers it is required by HMRC to deduct income tax from any interest paid, it 
should provide Mr and Mrs A with evidence of the deduction, which they can use for HMRC 
purposes if required.
I would again make Mr G aware that this redress calculation may result in a lower amount 
being owed to him than the current offer by Barclays of a full refund of premiums plus 
interest. As Barclays will likely have to make further enquiries of the product provider to 
complete the new calculation and this may take a period of time, Mr G may wish to consider 
whether to approach Barclays to accept the existing offer. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Unless Mr G chooses to accept the existing offer 
made by Barclays Bank UK PLC, I require it to calculate redress as detailed in putting things 
right above. If the calculation identifies that Mr G suffered a loss, Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay that sum to Mr G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman