complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr G bought the policy in June 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The credit 
card and PPI were taken out during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think Lloyds made Mr G aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr Gs credit card application form 
from the time of sale.
On the form, in a separate section for the PPI, I can see Mr G had the option of selecting 
whether or not he wanted the PPI added to his card. Theres a tick in the box next to the 
statement I want to apply for Payment Protection Plan. So, I think Lloyds made it clear to Mr 
G that the PPI was optional. And I think he agreed to it.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr G, and the policy seems to have been right for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. He was eligible for cover and I 
cant see that he would have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr G has told us he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay 
from his employer if he was too unwell to work. He says this shows he didnt need the PPI.
Having thought about what Mr G has said about his sick pay, I dont think this means the PPI 
wasnt right for him. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay Mr G would have received from his employer and would have potentially paid out for 
longer than he would have received full pay. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr G 
was ever made redundant or in the event of death.
DRN-1104037I also havent seen anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr G when 
he took out the policy  or that he had a particular need to keep costs down. So, overall, I 
think Lloyds recommendation was suitable. And I think Mr G could have found the cover 
useful if he ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mr G, Lloyds also had to give him clear 
enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Lloyds didnt give him all the 
information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it should have 
been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Mr G buying it.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before24 October 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman