DRN-3972178
The complaint
Miss K complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a 
conditional sale agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2021, Miss K acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Miss K was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £506.33, having paid a 
deposit of £250. The total repayable under the agreement was £30,123.47.
Miss K says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable for her given her financial situation 
at the time. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which 
included income and credit checks. 
Mrs K started getting into difficulty with her repayments to the account from around 
September 2021.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Miss K.
Moneybarn hasnt agreed or disputed the findings but has asked for copies of bank 
statements. Our adjudicator has explained that these are not relevant to the complaint. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Dealing first with Moneybarns request to see copies of the consumers bank statements, 
Moneybarn will be aware that we do not routinely disclose these. Ive seen that Moneybarn 
requested copy bank statements from around November 2022 because it had seen evidence 
of a joint account. But given that this post-dates the lending decision, this isnt relevant to the 
findings in my decision. I am also satisfied that bank statements Ive seen from the time 
immediately before the agreement have been sufficient for our adjudicator and also for 
myself to gain a good idea of Miss Ks financial situation at the time. That means we have 
seen enough to be able to determine what proportionate checks would have shown 
Moneybarn at the time of the application process for the agreement.  
Ive seen that Moneybarn asked Miss K to provide copy payslips so as to verify her income. 
Moneybarn also carried out a credit check. It hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it 
completed, but its told us it used a credit reference agency before approving the finance. It 
says that based on its own checks, Miss K had a net income of around £3,100 per month, 
although Miss K disputes this. Ive therefore reviewed and considered the credit files she has 
given us so as to gain an indication of what Moneybarn would likely have seen. 
At the time of the application I can see that Ms K had been relying heavily on short-term 
lending in the past and I note she had taken out two such loans in February and March 
2021. She was also paying a mortgage and a loan secured against her property that still had 
around nine years left on it. She also had at least three loan agreements in place and also 
agreements with phone providers. Moneybarn says it was aware that Miss K had defaulted 
on another loan account 23 months earlier, although Ive also seen evidence of at least one 
other credit account going into default at around the same time and another one around 27 
months earlier. I think this ought to have indicated that Miss K was likely to be struggling 
financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more 
thorough understanding of Ms Mis Ks financial circumstances before lending.
Moneybarn didnt ask Miss K about her expenditure. For example, the credit check it 
competed wont have indicated what Miss Ks regular living expenses were. Without having 
a good indication of what Miss Ks regular expenditure was, Moneybarn wouldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt 
complete proportionate checks. 
Moneybarn says it calculated Ms Ks expenditure using statistical data which it says gives 
average household expenditure figures specific to a consumers location and household. It 
says the regulator has approved this method as a standard approach for affordability 
assessments caried out by lending businesses such as Moneybarn. The regulator has said 
firms can estimate expenditure unless it knows or there are indicators to suggest an estimate 
is unlikely to be accurate. As Ive explained, I think the credit check Moneybarn completed 
very likely showed that Miss K was likely to be struggling financially. In those circumstances I 
think it would have been reasonable and proportionate to have understood Miss Ks specific 
financial circumstances, rather than relying on an estimate. 
It follows that I also think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have found out 
more about Miss Ks monthly expenditure, such as her living expenses, her other credit and 
also non-credit commitments. I cant be sure exactly what Moneybarn would have found out 
if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place 
significant weight on the information contained in her bank statements as to what would 
most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision as well as 
details Miss K has given us about her priority outgoings. I agree the statements show that 
Miss K receiving a monthly income of around £2,750 each month, based on her working 
income and child benefit. Ive seen she was paying around £1,000 towards her mortgage 
and secured borrowing. Broadly speaking, I agree that the cost of her paying utilities, daily 
expenses and other credit commitments came to around £2,475, leaving her with a 
disposable income of around £275. Ive also seen that Miss K was receiving one off 
transfers into her account, but was also paying a large proportion of these sums back. Ive 
also noticed that Miss K was making regular use of online gambling sites each month. These 
are factors that further indicate Miss Ks finances were being stretched, making additional 
borrowing unaffordable. I therefore agree that had Moneybarn taken steps to verify Ms Ks 
level of outgoings and committed expenditure, it would have recognised that she didnt have 
enough free disposable income to properly fund the agreement. 
I think it follows that she wasnt in a position to afford the repayments towards the new 
agreement without financial difficulty or having to borrow further. Had Moneybarn completed proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered this too. It therefore didnt act 
fairly by approving the finance. 
Putting things right  what Moneybarn needs to do
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Miss K has made, including any deposit. However, Miss K did have use of the 
car for around 21 months, so I think its fair she pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that 
monthly repayments of over £506.33 a month as required under the agreement are a fair 
reflection of what fair usage would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments 
went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Miss Ks likely overall usage of the car and what her costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if she didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Miss K should pay is £280 
for each month she had use of the car. This means Moneybarn can only ask her to repay a 
total of £5,880. Anything Miss K has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. 
To settle Miss Ks complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Miss K has made, less £5,880 for fair usage. 
oIf Miss K has paid more than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Miss K has paid less than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should arrange 
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once Moneybarn has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Miss Ks credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss K asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman