DRN-3124317
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S had plumbing and drainage insurance with H. H was acting on behalf of Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva) and the policy was underwritten by Aviva, so the complaint is 
against Aviva. When I use the name Aviva, this includes agents and contractors acting on its 
behalf.
Mr and Mrs S complain that a contractor acting on behalf of Aviva caused damage while 
repairing their toilet.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S contacted Aviva to report that their toilet wasnt flushing. An engineer came 
out and fixed it. The toilet cistern was built into a unit so the engineer had to move one of the 
boards to get to it. A few months later Mr S reported the toilet cistern was leaking and 
another engineer came out to repair it. This engineer also had difficulty getting to the cistern. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Aviva that the second engineer had caused damage to the 
inside of the unit while doing the repair. Aviva said that Mr S had signed a disclaimer which 
said Aviva was not responsible for any damage.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with this response, and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He said Mr S had signed the disclaimer so he 
couldnt say Aviva had acted incorrectly.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with this response and so their complaint has been passed to 
me. They say Mr S didnt sign anything until the end of the job, and didnt know it was a 
disclaimer. Mr and Mrs S want Aviva to pay the cost of repairing the cistern unit, which they 
estimate to be about £500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
On 24 September 2021 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said  
Ive seen a copy of the Job Completion Report from the second engineers visit. It says
1st Visit Disclaimer
I confirm I requested [H] (or its contractor) to proceed with the work above and they will have 
taken all reasonable care whilst carrying out the above works. 
I also acknowledge that in undertaking these works some unavoidable damage may have 
occurred and it may not have been possible to reinstate the property entirely to its prior 
condition.
I accept that neither my Insurer or [H] (or its contractor) is liable for any damage or losses 
caused as a result.
This does not affect my right to expect [H] (or its contractor) to use all reasonable care and 
skill in carrying out this work.
There is then about another page of text and then what is apparently Mr Ss signature, 
although Mr S disputes this.
Just above this signature is a section headed Further Details, where the engineer set out 
the work he did and what he had to do to get to the cistern. It says
Got disclaimer signed to remove concealed unit
Removed top board with ease but found one part already slightly broken
Tried to remove toilet but it was tiled in
Cut hole round area of back board where flush cone went in as unable to remove whole 
panel as it had beed [sic] made to fit
Cut hole and replaced flush pioe [sic] and flush cone
Re instated concealed unit toilet
Tested all okay
Cmr happy
Leave behind card left.
The engineer and Mr S have both apparently signed the form further down on the last page. 
Mr S accepts this is his signature. However Mr and Mrs S say he was presented with one 
sheet of paper at the end of the job and asked to sign to confirm everything was working. He 
didnt know it was a disclaimer. Mr and Mrs S say the engineer didnt tell them about any 
disclaimer either.
Mr S says he didnt sign anything when the first engineer visited. Aviva says it hasnt been 
possible to get a copy of that disclaimer or job sheet as the system on which it was stored 
has been archived. 
Mr and Mrs S say the second engineer could have got to the cistern by widening the existing 
access hole slightly. They say instead he tried to remove the front panels of the cistern 
housing unit, causing damage. I accept that there is damage to the unit as described by Mr 
and Mrs S. I cannot say for sure when the damage was caused, but on balance I believe it 
was caused either at the first or second engineers visit, or possibly both. Indeed the second 
engineer records that when he removed the top board one part was already broken, 
although he doesnt say what. The second engineers report supports Mr and Mrs Ss 
version of events, that the engineer tried to remove the cistern housing, when actually all 
that was needed was to cut a hole.Aviva says the form was signed twice, once to give permission for the access to be made, 
and then again at the end when the work was completed. However in a letter to Mr and Mrs 
S dated 13/7/20 Aviva said 
The engineer will not gain any assess [sic] to carry out the repair unless the customer 
agrees to this. This was agreed and a disclaimer was signed by you, this is one signature. 
This signature is on the job report when the work has been completed.
The wording of the disclaimer and this comment in the letter both support Mr and Mrs Ss  
version of events, that the engineer didnt ask them to sign anything until after the work was 
finished.
I dont think it was fair and reasonable to ask Mr and Mrs S to sign a disclaimer after the 
work had been carried out and any damage already done. And I can understand how Mr S 
wouldnt have realised he was signing a disclaimer when he did sign the form, as his 
signature or signatures were not requested below the disclaimer but some way further down. 
On balance therefore Im not satisfied that the disclaimer relied on by Aviva is valid. So I 
think Aviva should take responsibility for fixing the damage.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
I intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S the reasonable cost of 
repairing or replacing the built in toilet cistern unit. Mr and Mrs S have said they can provide 
an estimated costing for this, and I would ask them to provide it to this service now.
Mr and Mrs S have had to go to a lot of time and trouble complaining to Aviva and to this 
service. I intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S £100 to compensate 
them for this inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva responded to my provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
Mr and Mrs S raised a number of points in their response. 
They say it was the same engineer at both visits. Avivas records show different 
engineers, but I dont think this makes any difference to the outcome of the complaint 
either way. 
They set out some detailed observations about what happened at each visit, and a 
timeline of what happened, but this doesnt change my provisional decision. 
They say this has had a very detrimental effect on Mr Ss health, causing him stress, 
strain and anxiety leading to health problems including with his blood pressure, back, 
eyes and heart, partly caused by having to write so many letters. They say the 
suggested £100 compensation will have to be substantially increased. Ive 
considered very carefully whether to increase the compensation. However having 
seen the history of the complaint and the relatively small amount of correspondence, 
I cant say that the compensation should be increased. £100 is in line with other 
payments this service makes in this sort of circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S have not yet had the built in toilet cistern unit repaired or replaced. They say there has been a delay in obtaining a quote for the work, but have provided an extract from a 
2019 brochure which shows a suitable unit priced at £393.25 then. So they suggest a total 
for the work of not less than £600.
My final decision
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S the reasonable cost of repairing or 
replacing the built in toilet cistern unit. Mr and Mrs S have had to go to a lot of time and 
trouble complaining to Aviva and to this service. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
and Mrs S £100 to compensate them for this inconvenience.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs S accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman