DRN-2896598
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, maintained an 
incorrect telephone number on his account and sent fraud verification texts to that old 
number.
What happened
Mr P was making a large purchase but discovered that his credit card wasnt allowing the 
transaction to complete. Mr P telephoned Barclays and was told that it was a fraud 
prevention measure and that Mr P would be sent a code via text which he could use to 
unblock his card. However, the text never came through, and Mr P had to go through a 
verbal process via telephone in order to unblock that card.
Mr P later discovered that the text hed been promised had been sent to old telephone 
number which should no longer have been registered to his Barclays account. Mr P wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ps complaint, but they noted that the old number had never been 
taken off the account by Mr P. However, Barclays did acknowledge that Mr Ps telephone 
experience could have been more efficient, so they offer to pay £25 to Mr P as 
compensation for any inconvenience incurred.
Mr P didnt think that Barclays response went far enough, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Barclays had 
provided a reasonable explanation as to what had taken place, including that theyd sent 
texts to both of the telephone numbers that they held on file for Mr P  and were unsure why 
Mr P hadnt received the text sent to his current number. So, our investigator also didnt 
uphold the account.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It must have been frustrating for Mr P to have not received the fraud verification text he was 
expecting on his current mobile phone, only to discover later that the text was sent to an old 
number he felt should no longer be kept and used by Barclays.
However, Barclays have been able to demonstrate that the number in question was 
maintained on the account as being the number of an authorised user  Mr Ps wife  who 
had been added to the account by Mr P.
Barclays have also demonstrated that the fraud verification text was sent to both Mr Ps 
current number and the other number maintained on the account, and are unsure as to why 
the text sent to Mr Ps current number wasnt received by Mr P. 
It may have been the case that the failure of the text to be received by Mr Ps current 
number was attributable to a network issue. But, given that Im satisfied from the information 
that Barclays have presented to this service that the text was sent to both numbers, this 
non-receipt of the text by one of those numbers wouldnt be something that I would consider 
holding Barclays accountable for.
Taking all the above into consideration, its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here. And I say this because, while Mr P may not have 
recalled that the older number was still listed on his account as being the contact number for 
his wife - an authorised user on his account  its incumbent on Mr P to maintain the contact 
details on his account as he would like them, and it wouldnt be expected that Barclays 
would remove a number from Mr Ps account without his instruction to do so.
However, whilst Im satisfied that Barclays havent acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr 
P with regard the telephone numbers maintained on his account or the text that was sent to 
those numbers, Barclays have acknowledged that Mr Ps experience when calling them 
about this issue could have been better, and theyve made an offer to pay £25 to Mr P as 
compensation for any inconvenience incurred because of this.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as fair and reasonable 
by one party not being considered as such by another party. But, while Im aware that Mr P 
may disagree with me, the £25 that Barclays have offered here does feel fair to me, and I 
can confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the 
circumstances here. Its my understanding that this offer is still available for Mr P to accept, 
should he wish to do so.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P was wanting here, but it follows from the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further 
action here. I hope that Mr P can understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman