DRN-4188312
The complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) sold him a boiler cover policy 
different to the one hed asked for.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr G contacted BG to take out boiler cover for his tenanted property. He 
told BG that the boiler had a fault so he wanted the Repair and Cover policy. Mr G said he 
checked three times during the call that the new policy covered the existing repair. The first 
engineer appointment was arranged for a few days later.
The engineer inspected the boiler and told Mr G that the required parts would be ordered.
At the beginning of January 2022, the second engineer visited, but didnt bring the parts. The 
engineer said the boiler was faulty and wasnt covered under his HomeCare Four policy. The 
second engineer didnt carry out the repair. 
At this point Mr G found his policy wasnt the one hed asked for and didnt include cover for 
the initial repair. He complained to BG.
When BG reattended in February, it declared the boiler in satisfactory working condition and 
issued the associated landlord certificate. 
Mr G explained that hed had a temporary fix done by a third-party engineer and he thought 
BG should cover the repair cost. He complained about the way it had dealt with his boiler 
claim and the policy sale.
BG looked into Mr Gs complaint. It agreed thered been some mistakes around the engineer 
visits, stating that the first visit was the one when it shouldve told Mr G his boiler wasnt 
covered. BGs final offer was to pay Mr G £120 to cover what hed paid his own engineer to 
fix the boiler, and a further £170 by way of apology for the service shortfalls.
But Mr G didnt think BG had done enough and he brought the following issues of complaint 
to us.
BG didnt listen to the sales call after hed asked it to on a number of occasions.
Its mistakes caused a delay getting his boiler fixed.
BG only covered the cost of the temporary fix his engineer had done.
BG wouldnt cover the cost of the parts needed to complete the repair its first 
engineer diagnosed.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. She agreed that BG hadnt handled matters 
well, but she thought its total payment of £290 was fair. Therefore, our investigator didnt 
think BG needed to do any more.
Mr G didnt agree and he asked for further consideration of the policy sale and the payments 
BG said it had made to him. 
I issued a provisional decision in May 2023 explaining that I thought BG had done enough to 
put matters right. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided that BG did something wrong, but it has made a fair offer to put 
things right. While this is a different outcome to the one our investigator reached, I dont plan 
to ask BG to do any more than it has already offered. Ive relied on additional reasons and 
evidence, so I consider it fair that each party has a further opportunity to comment.
In light of all the evidence, Im minded to accept Mr Gs version of events in respect of the 
policy he asked to buy. Hes consistently said he asked for the Repair and Cover (R&C) 
policy, which wouldve allowed BG to charge him a fixed fee to repair his faulty boiler before 
providing cover. The call recording is no longer available, but the evidence suggests BG 
didnt listen to it when it wouldve been available even though Mr G asked it to. The first 
engineer appears to have acted in line with the R&C process. I see no reason to doubt the 
accuracy of Mr Gs recollection of events, so Ive accepted that he asked for the R&C policy.
My role now is to consider whether Mr G suffered any avoidable loss or inconvenience 
because of BGs failure to provide the policy he asked for. 
What shouldve happened
BG said it wouldve charged a fixed fee for the initial boiler repair followed by 12 monthly 
payments. BG confirmed the fixed fee wouldve been around £100, and the monthly 
payments wouldve been a minimum of £27.50 providing ongoing Central Heating 
Breakdown (CHB) cover. Both payments wouldve been subject to the outcome of the initial 
boiler check.
Regardless of the actual amount, the outcome of buying the R&C policy would most likely 
have been a first engineer visit to determine the repairs followed by, where necessary, a 
second visit once the ordered parts had arrived to complete the repair. Mr G wouldve had a 
working boiler and CHB cover in place for 12 months at a total cost to him of around £430.
What actually happened
Mr G believed hed bought the R&C policy. The first engineer visited within a few days and 
ordered the necessary parts. This is in keeping with what shouldve happened.
The second engineer visited but didnt bring the parts or fix the boiler. Instead, the engineer 
reported that it was the first visit, and the boiler was deemed outside the HomeCare Four 
(HC4) policy cover. Mr G arranged a temporary repair with a third-party engineer, costing 
him £120.
Although BG began by following the expected route for a R&C policy, it's clear that BG then 
handled Mr Gs claim, at least in part, in line with the HC4 policy. The policy documents BG 
sent to Mr G showed he had a HC4 policy, costing £185 for the full year.Inconsistencies
BGs actions havent been consistent with the R&C policy or the HC4 policy. For example, 
under the HC4 policy, if BG had identified at the first visit that the boiler wasn't working 
correctly  it had an existing fault - the terms of the policy state that cover would be 
cancelled, and the premium refunded to Mr G. That didnt happen.
Under the R&C policy, BG shouldve checked Mr Gs boiler and identified the repairs 
needed. BG shouldve confirmed the fixed fee and monthly payments, but it didnt do that 
either. Its first engineer ordered the necessary parts, but the second engineer said the fault 
wasnt covered and didnt complete the repair.
Given that BG didnt consistently apply the terms of either policy, Im satisfied that it needed 
to put matters right for Mr G.
Moving on, then, Ive thought about what BG did to resolve matters and whether its enough 
given the inconvenience caused. 
Policy cost
Looking firstly at the costs, if BG had provided Mr G with the R&C policy hed asked for, hed 
have paid a minimum yearly total of £430 for the fixed fee and monthly costs. Mr G would 
also have had a working boiler.
BG set up and charged Mr G for a HC4 policy at a total yearly cost of £185. But the cost 
didnt include the initial repair. Mr G paid £120 for what he believed was a temporary repair. 
So, because BG incorrectly placed him on the HC4 policy, Mr G paid a total of £305. BG 
agreed to refund the boiler repair cost, meaning his total payment for the year was just the 
policy fee of £185. From a pure cost perspective then, BGs mistake didnt cause Mr G any 
financial loss. Indeed, it meant he hadnt paid at least £245 of what he wouldve paid for the 
R&C policy.
Boiler repair
But Mr G didnt think that was enough because it left him without a fully repaired boiler. I 
asked for an update on any additional costs he incurred for a permanent/lasting repair and 
Mr G confirmed that the boiler had continued to work for the rest of the policy year without 
need of further repair. 
Looking at the terms of both the R&C and HC4 policies, any repairs are guaranteed for 12 
months. I wouldnt expect BG to guarantee repairs to be permanent, but they should be 
lasting. The guarantee is for 12 months, and Mr Gs temporary repair has lasted more than 
12 months. Therefore, Im satisfied that the repair cost BG reimbursed was for a lasting 
repair.  
This is supported by the check BG carried out after Mr Gs engineer completed the repair 
when it issued confirmation that the boiler was in working order. 
I understand that Mr G was unhappy that all the repairs BG listed as necessary werent 
covered by the temporary repair reimbursement. But, as he confirmed the boiler continued to 
work after the repair, and he hasnt incurred any further costs, I cant reasonably ask BG to 
pay Mr G any more.
BG confirmed that Mr G still has HC4 cover and that the boiler was working. Therefore, if the 
boiler needs any further repairs within the current policy year, Mr G would be able to make a 
claim, and BG would consider it in line with the policy terms and conditions. Compensation
Mr G made BG aware that his tenants didnt have proper use of the boiler during the period 
between his claim and the temporary repair. The boiler was faulty before Mr G contacted BG 
for the R&C policy. When he did ask for the policy, it was during the peak of winter and a 
public holiday period, so I cant reasonably hold BG responsible for the delay in availability of 
parts. But I do think the delay of around five weeks from BGs second visit to the 
temporary/lasting repair was avoidable. BG agreed to pay £170 compensation for its 
shortfalls and for the distress and inconvenience he experienced during that time. 
Ive taken the following into consideration:
BGs mistake resulted in Mr G paying £245 less for the policy he had than the policy 
hed asked for.
BG reimbursed the £120 cost of what now turns out was a lasting repair.
Mr G paid £185 for HC4 cover, which provided a greater level of cover than the policy 
hed asked for. After the reimbursement, the overall cost to him was £65 for the 
policy year.
BGs offer of £170 for the inconvenience caused.
Im satisfied that the evidence shows BGs mistake of placing him on the HC4 policy instead 
of the R&C policy didnt cause Mr G any direct financial loss. And its compensation offer is in 
line with what I wouldve required for the inconvenience evidenced here.
I said that I wasnt intending to ask BG to do any more than it had already done to put 
matters right, and I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information 
they might want me to consider before I reached a final decision.
BG didnt have anything further to add.
Mr G didnt agree with my provisional decision, and he made five comments which Ill 
address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint for the same reasons I set out 
in my provisional decision.
Mr G said his complaint was about mis-selling and has been from the beginning. He also 
commented on what he considers to be systemic malpractice.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I accepted that BG didnt provide the policy hed 
asked for. So, I went on to consider whether Mr G was treated fairly once BG was made 
aware of that and whether Mr G suffered any loss as a direct result. My consideration is of 
Mr Gs complaint only, and any award is based on matters affecting him directly. I wont be 
addressing any concerns of a systemic issue in my decision.
Mr G said the correct policy wouldve cost £100 in addition to that already paid, so he 
disagrees with the cost analysis. 
While Mr G may have understood that would be the case, both BGs website and its agents 
confirmed thered also be monthly payments thereafter, and for a lower level of cover than Mr G had. Therefore, I cant agree that the policy Mr G wanted wouldve just cost him £100 
more.
Although BG made offers, Mr G said he hasnt received the payments.
My decision is based on the understanding that BG will pay/has paid what it offered. Unless 
Mr G accepts my decision, its not within my remit to ask BG to pay anything. But if Mr G 
does accept my decision, then any offers BG made which Ive taken into consideration 
should be paid.
In my provisional decision, I looked at the cost of the policy to Mr G, but he said BG lied 
about the cost to him being £245 less. 
To be clear, I asked BG for the price of the R&C policy which Mr G wouldve paid for had he 
been put on the correct policy. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that BG provided 
incorrect information, and it was supported by the online information. I went on to calculate 
the costs to determine whether Mr G had lost out because of BGs mistakes, so BG didnt 
provide me with the £245 figure I quoted.
Ive looked again at the cost comparison, and I remain satisfied that Mr G didnt lose out 
financially because of BGs mistake.
Finally, Mr G said the compensation doesnt address the worry he suffered knowing there 
was a baby in the house during the peak of winter but without sufficient hot water.
While I understand that Mr Gs tenants will have been affected by the matter, my 
consideration is only of the impact BGs mistake had on Mr G directly. I cant require BG to 
compensate him for any distress his tenants experienced.  
Having considered Mr Gs comments, Im not persuaded that any change in outcome is 
warranted, and I remain satisfied that BG made a fair offer to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that 
British Gas Insurance Limited made a fair offer to put matters right, so Im not asking it to do 
any more. 
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman