DRN-1958308
The complaint
 Mr B complains that Close Brothers Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr B acquired a second-hand car costing £43,490 funded by a deposit of 
£10,000 and the balance with conditional sale agreement. It was approaching eight years old 
and had done 52,603 miles. The advert describes the car as both outstanding and 
impeccable. He bought the car online without a test drive and initially everything seemed to 
be fine. He was working away from home so put the car away and only looked at it more 
closely some months later.
He says that he noticed there was a misalignment between panelling and the front bumper. 
He took it the garage of a friend who said it had been in an accident and had been poorly 
repaired. He complained to Close Brothers in September 2019 and two reports were carried 
out on the car. Both confirmed it had been damaged and that the repairs were poorly done. 
However, neither identified when the damage was likely to have been incurred. Close 
Brothers didnt accept that the car had been damaged at the point of sale.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. She noted the damage and thought it unlikely 
that Mr B would have made the purchase had he thought it not to be in pristine condition. 
She considered Mr Bs testimony to be reliable. He had supplied evidence to show he had 
been working away from home which was why he hadnt identified the problem sooner. She 
also reviewed a photograph taken by Mr B which she thought showed the damage was 
present at that point.
She said the business had the right to effect a repair and suggested Close Brothers cover 
the cost of a repair to the standard a reasonable person would expect.
Close Brothers didnt agree and pointed out the dealer had completed an 80-point pre-
delivery inspection, completed some minor repairs and HPI checks before the car passed its 
MOT. It said this showed the dealer followed due diligence and it believed Mr B had 
thoroughly inspected the car at the time of purchase. He had raised no issues until over five 
months later.
It wasnt aware of the current mileage but noted it had done 55,836 in November 2019. It 
said that it couldnt differentiate work that may be required due the age of the car and 
damage at the time of sale.
Mr B was able to find the advert for the car and photos from the dealer which he believed 
supported his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the conditional sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brother is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car Mr B acquired was a prestige model as demonstrated by the price paid for a car 
some eight years old. I note he notified Close Bothers of his concerns in early September 
2019 some four months after acquisition. I am not aware when he contacted the dealer, but I 
am satisfied this was not done within 30 days. That means the business is entitled to one 
attempt to effect a repair if the fault was present at the point of sale.
It is accepted by all that the car has suffered some damage presumably from an accident 
though this was not shown on the HPI check. That would suggest that no insurance claim 
was made and the car was repaired privately. However, it was repaired it is clear from the 
various reports that the work wasnt of an acceptable standard.
The key question is whether this damage was present at the point of sale or if it occurred 
later. It is regrettable that neither report comments on this. I agree with our investigator that 
another report is unnecessary and it is unlikely to be easy to say at this point when the 
damage occurred.
On the one hand we have the dealer which had inspected the car before the sale and on the 
other we have the testimony of Mr B. However, we also have photographs taken by the 
dealer of the car in the showroom and highly polished. We also have one from Mr B taken 
the day after purchase. Having studied these in some detail I am satisfied that the gap on 
the front nearside panel is greater than on the offside and that would suggest the fault was 
present at the point of sale. 
I also think it unlikely that in the four months Mr B had the car before reporting the issue that 
he had an accident had it repaired and then reported it to Close Brothers in effect making a 
potentially fraudulent claim. I would add that I dont consider the dealer deliberately failed to 
mention the damage. It was only apparent after some scrutiny and may well have eluded the 
80-point check.
Putting things right
 Close Brothers should pay for the repair.My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Close Brothers to pay for the 
necessary repairs to make the car good as identified by the independent reports.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman