DRN-3280558
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unreasonably held him 
responsible for deliberately colliding with a parked car. As a result, Mr D has complained about the 
consequences of his policy being cancelled. 
What happened
Mr D was involved in a collision with a parked car on 27 October 2019. He reported this to 
Watford on 28 October 2019. He explained that his wife who was a passenger had become 
unwell and he had panicked causing the accident. Watford told him on this basis, he would 
be held responsible for causing the accident.
As Mr D wanted Watford to repair his car, Watford investigated the accident and the damage 
to Mr Ds car. It said it didnt accept Mr Ds account of what happened. Mr D instructed 
solicitors and Watford explained to them its investigation into Mr D was subject to litigation 
privilege. So, Mr D raised a complaint. Watford explained the circumstances that Mr D had 
presented had raised concerns which it then investigated. It also explained, as a result of 
those investigations, it cancelled his policy.
As Mr D remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt 
recommend his complaint should be upheld. Mr D didnt agree so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
My role and that of this service is to assess if Watford didnt anything wrong in assessing Mr 
Ds claim, on the basis of the terms and conditions of the policy.
In Mr Ds policy there is a term which says the following: 
15.2 This policy does not cover any loss, damage or liability if caused maliciously or 
deliberately by any person driving Your Car with Your permission, agreement or 
support.
Watford relied on this term following its investigations into the accident, ultimately then 
cancelling his policy. Therefore, what I must look at is given Watfords investigations into the 
claim, was it reasonable for it to rely on this clause and thereafter cancel Mr Ds policy.
Watford said Mr Ds account of how the accident happened changed during their 
investigation which caused concern as to the veracity of Mr Ds account of the accident. Mr 
D said he was travelling to the hospital as his wife was ill. The accident happened according 
to Mr D because his wife passed out and he panicked. However, then he confirmed later that 
they never went on to the hospital after the accident, once it was known that Watford would 
seek medical records to show they went to the hospital. Further in some later phone 
conversations it appeared that someone other than Mr D responded to Watfords questions. 
Given the damage to the car and the lack of clarity over the veracity of what Mr D said about 
how the accident occurred, Watfords engineer concluded that the car was being driven on a 
public road with gross inattention to the presence of other vehicles and the surroundings or 
has been deliberately steered towards the parked cars.
Watford explained all of this to Mr D on 12 November 2019 asking him to respond which Mr 
D didnt do. Instead it received a letter from an alleged firm of solicitors with a defective letter 
of claim talking about negligence alleged to Mr D from Mr D. During the course this 
correspondence and conversations Watford said its investigations were subject to litigation 
privilege.
Given Mr Ds failure to address the issues which Watford laid out in its letter to him of 12 
November 2019, I dont consider Watford was unreasonable to rely on the relevant policy 
term detailed above, in both declining Mr Ds claim and subsequently cancelling his policy. 
Had Watford not detailed its concerns in such a letter to Mr D, my decision might well have 
been different. But because it did and Mr D then didnt provide any explanations, it remains 
my view that Watford hasnt done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman