DRN-4095487
The complaint
Ms O complains about the services shes received from Atkinson Rose LLP (AR)  when 
dealing with her Employment Tribunal (ET) claim.
Ms O is represented by Ms M in making her complaint but for ease of reading I will only refer 
to Ms O in my decision.
What happened
Ms O said she agreed to use the services of AR to make an ET claim against her local 
authority for unfair dismissal. She said shed been looking for solicitors to act for her for 
some time and after seeing an article about a similar case shed contacted the barrister 
involved who referred her to AR. Ms O said she was led to believe that AR were employment 
law solicitors. She said she agreed to use their services for a fixed fee of £5,000 plus VAT, 
payable in four monthly instalments of £1,500. Ms O paid AR £2,400. In June 2021, Ms O 
said AR submitted a claim to the ET after which she represented herself while she continued 
to seek further legal assistance. On appointment of her solicitors Ms O said she found the 
claim submitted by AR was poorly drafted as some of her claims had been omitted. She said 
her  solicitors had to resubmit her claim with the necessary amendments.
Ms O said as shed provided AR with the relevant paperwork for her unfair dismissal claim 
theyd been negligent in their submission. She also said theyd provided a poor service as 
theyd failed to respond to phone calls and contact for information. She said AR should 
reimburse her the money shed already paid to them £2,400 as her claim had to be 
resubmitted.
Ms O accepted shed fallen behind in her repayments to AR but disputed the payment of any 
fee after she discovered AR werent solicitors but a claims management company. Ms O 
said shed to use the services of a solicitor to put right what AR had done which incurred 
potential costs of over £40,000.
Ms O said after disputing this with AR theyd invoiced her for payment of over £10,000 as 
they said she was in breach of their contract. And had started court proceedings against her 
for recovery of their fee. She complained to AR.
AR said theyd made clear that they were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in respect of claims management activities. They said Ms O had agreed to their terms 
and conditions and that she would initially pay a fixed fee of £5,000 plus VAT for the drafting 
and submitting of her ET claim. After which any further work would accrue another fee. AR 
said theyd drafted, and with Ms Os approval had submitted her claim to the ET. They said 
as Ms O hadnt maintained her monthly instalments they were justified in charging their fee 
on their hourly rate. Ms O wasnt happy with ARs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said AR had made clear they were a claims management company (CMC) 
and theyd submitted Ms Os claim to the ET. He said that as AR had carried out some work 
for Ms O in her ET claim a fee was fair. He considered the payment already made by Ms O 
of £2,400 shouldnt be reimbursed but said AR shouldnt charge Ms O anything further. 
Ms O didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator, and for
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly it isnt this services role to investigate Ms Os complaint against her former employer. 
And the costs Ms O incurs from her solicitors for work done for her ET claim would be 
subject to a finding by the ET. So I wont comment on this or the merits of Ms Os ET case
I know Ms O said she used ARs services as she thought they were solicitors, but Ive not 
seen anything to show me that AR are, or were, regulated as solicitors  theyre regulated as 
a CMC and complaints about CMCs are dealt with by the Claims Management 
Ombudsman. In reaching my decision Ive considered whether AR has treated Ms O fairly 
and reasonably when giving her advice and investigating or representing her claim.
While Ive fully considered all the evidence, and Ms Os comments, Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on  any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
As a CMC,AR are required to provide Ms O with information that is fair, clear and not 
misleading before she agrees to them representing her. Ive looked at ARs website which 
clearly says: Atkinson Rose LLP are a claims management company. 
The website gives details of ARs team and their approach. And shows theyre regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in respect of claims management activities. They also 
refer to speaking to a lawyer. A lawyer is anyone who could give legal advice. So, this term 
encompasses solicitors, barristers, and legal executives. A solicitor is a lawyer who gives 
legal advice and represents their client in the court. The Solicitors Regulation Authority  
regulates solicitors in England and Wales.
Employment claims are very individual and, however similar, no two are exactly alike. 
Because of this I wouldnt expect AR to publish a schedule of costs on their website, as 
costs can vary from claim to claim, depending on exactly what work needs to be done. What 
I would expect is theyre transparent and upfront about how much theyre charging, and what 
for. And I think AR has done this.
I can see in March 2021, AR sent Ms O a Client Care Letter (CCL) after she contacted them 
about her claim. This confirmed theyd agree to act for her on a fixed fee basis, charging 
£5,000 plus VAT, in total £6,000 to draft and submit Ms Os claim to the ET. With repayment 
by instalments of £1,500 over four months. They explained that their retainer would end at 
this point, but they could then consider moving forward on a different type of retainer. They 
also explained that, even though this didnt apply to Ms O because she was paying a fixed 
fee, they charged £300 per hour for the work they did. AR also said that, if Ms O terminated 
the retainer, or if they had to terminate it because she breached the conditions, they had the 
right to bill you on an hourly basis for the work that had been carried out. The CCL also told Ms O that if she was dissatisfied with ARs service she could complain to the Claims 
Management Regulator.
By signing that she had read and understood the agreement at the end of March 2021, Ms O 
had agreed to use ARs services and to pay their fixed fee by monthly instalments. I can see  
AR drafted and submitted Ms Os claim to the ET in June 2021. I cant see any new retainer 
being agreed to, so Id consider the agreement was made based on the original retainer, a 
fixed fee agreement of £5,000 plus VAT. 
I understand that Ms O found it difficult to maintain the monthly instalments and at one point 
asked AR if her claim could be considered under a No Win No Fee agreement. But Ms O 
had already agreed to a fixed fee. To be represented on a no win no fee basis isnt 
something Id expect to be offered to all ARs clients. Theyre usually only offered where 
theres a high chance of success, and where the percentage success fee charged would at 
least cover the cost of all the work that needed to be done. I can see from the CCL that AR 
had advised Ms O that the expected costs for her claim could range from £10,000 to 
£20,000. So, I dont think AR did anything wrong by not offering Ms O a no win no fee option, 
either initially, or later in the process when shed difficulty in making her monthly instalments.
In September 2022, AR sent Ms O an invoice based on their hourly rate and the work theyd 
done for her, £12,424.80 less the £2,400 leaving an outstanding balance of £10,024.80, as 
they considered Ms O was in breach of the agreement as shed failed to maintain the agreed 
monthly instalments. And as stated in the CCL theyd used their right to calculate their fee 
based on an hourly rate for the work theyd done.
The CCL that Ms O had signed also meant she was: Agreeing not to represent yourself or 
instruct anyone else to represent you at any Tribunal hearing unless we agree in advance.
Ms O said she believed her agreement with AR ended upon the submission of her claim, in 
June 2021. And shed gone on to represent herself and instructed a law firm to act for her. I 
can understand Ms O thinking this as she hadnt agreed to another retainer with AR for her 
claim. But the CCL says under Termination:
This agreement has a 14 day cooling off period whereby you can change your mind and 
cancel it without any charge. After that point, the agreement terminates automatically once 
your claim within the Employment Tribunal has ended via either judgement, settlement, 
withdrawal or any other method. It does not cover any enforcement of the award, nor the 
bringing or responding to any appeals." 
As Ms Os ET case hadnt ended via either judgement, settlement, withdrawal or any other 
method  she still had an agreement with AR. And the CCL says that after the claim is 
submitted, they would undertake another free risk assessment once the defence has been 
filed. I know Ms O has said shed been caused a lot of stress in trying to handle the ET 
claim after its submission, but she still had an agreement with AR and could have continued 
to use their services albeit with a different type of retainer. 
So, when Ms O stopped paying the monthly instalments, shed breached the agreement she 
had with AR. In doing so, under the original retainer, they had the right to charge an hourly 
rate based on the work theyd done. 
But Ive also considered that in November 2022 Ms O said her solicitors had to attend a two-
day preliminary hearing with the ET for them to consider an amendment application for her 
claim because AR had omitted claims. And had made a number of errors in their submission 
to the ET. The judges outcome from this hearing showed while some of the amendments were straight forward, not controversial or a simple re labelling of the existing claim others 
werent. I can see that several new claims were asked to be considered, some were 
accepted as theyd arisen from facts already pleaded or indicated to in the submission made 
by AR. But others were rejected as by their inclusion at this date meant there would be a 
disadvantage to the respondent in the case, Ms Os former employer. So, while AR did draft 
and submit Ms Os claim for which shed agreed a fixed fee in payment, I think its clear the 
submission didnt cover all of the claims that Ms O could have had considered by the ET. 
And there was a need to make amendments to aspects of ARs submission.  
AR has commented that Ms O had sight of the submission and was happy with its content. 
But in seeking advice Ms O acknowledges she needed help with her ET claim and looked for 
experts in this field to help her. So, I dont think its unreasonable that she would have been 
reliant on AR about the advice and recommendations they gave to her in the drafting of the 
submission.
While I dont think AR has done anything wrong in asking Ms O to pay their fee, as it 
adheres to the agreement, shed with them. Its clear that Ms O has incurred additional costs 
after AR submitted her ET claim as it needed to be amended. And there are some claims 
she is now too late to bring to the tribunal for consideration. This could have a detrimental 
impact on the outcome to Ms Os claim which does seem unfair.
So, I agree with our investigator as AR did draft and submit the initial claim to the ET for    
Ms O, its fair and reasonable for them to be paid a fee. But I dont think its fair given Ms Os 
additional costs for the amendments and omissions that relate to the claim AR submitted for 
her, that she should have to pay a further £10,024.80 to them. I think a fair and reasonable 
resolution for both parties, would be for AR to waive any fees above the £2,400 already paid 
by Ms O.
I understand that AR has placed a stay on the court hearing for recovery of their fees 
pending the outcome from this service. The Claims Management Ombudsman  a Financial 
Ombudsman Service operates according to a set of rules made by the FCA. These rules are 
set out in a section of the FCAs Handbook called Dispute Resolution: Complaints ( DISP). 
DISP 3.6.6(3) says: if the complainant notifies the Ombudsman that he accepts the 
determination within that time limit, it is final and binding on both parties. And DISP 3.6.6(4) 
..if the complainant does not notify the Ombudsman that he accepts the determination within 
that time limit, the complainant will be treated as having rejected the determination, and neither 
party will be bound by it
Its now for Ms O to decide whether to accept my decision or not.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Atkinson Rose LLP to waive any fee above the £2400 
already paid by Ms O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman