DRN-3948086
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the customer service provided by MBNA Limited (MBNA) when 
money was paid into her credit card account in error. 
What happened
Mrs M had a credit card provided by MBNA. In July 2022, she noted that an amount had 
been paid into her credit card account even though the money wasnt owed to her. She 
called MBNA on three occasions in early August 2022 to ask for her account to be closed 
and to ask for the money to be returned to its owner as it didnt belong to her. On one of 
these calls, MBNA said Mrs M could keep the money as it was a credit on her account. But 
she again told MBNA that the money wasnt hers. 
Ten days after the third call, Mrs M called MBNA again to try to close the account. During 
this call, MBNA said that it had made the decision to pay the credit balance into her current 
account. She again told MBNA that the money wasnt hers, but it said it had authorisation 
from management to transfer the money to her. MBNA said that the card account would be 
closed with no further action required from Mrs M. She asked MBNA for confirmation of the 
closure and the money transfer to be put in writing, but she never received confirmation of 
the transfer from MBNA. The following day, Mrs M spent a portion of the money transferred 
to her current account. 
Four days later, she checked her card account to see if it was closed and saw that her 
account was in debt. Mrs M called MBNA to discuss the matter and it admitted it had made a 
mistake in paying her the money here. 
Mrs M was worried that MBNAs error will affect her credit file. She said that the situation had 
been very stressful and affected her health and she couldnt afford to pay back part of the 
debt to MBNA. She would like the account closed and the debt waived.
In its final response letter, MBNA accepted its error and offered to pay Mrs M £200 
compensation for the distress caused. MBNA also asked Mrs M to repay the outstanding 
debt. 
In November 2022, MBNA also offered to waive interest on the debt shortfall until Mrs M had 
repaid it and it said that no interest and charges had been applied to the account. It would 
amend Mrs Ms credit file when the debt had been repaid.
Mrs M said that as she had spent some of the original credit balance, there was a shortfall. 
But she had already repaid MBNA a sizable portion of the money.
The investigator concluded that MBNAs offer of £200 compensation in its final response 
letter and its subsequent offer in November 2022 were reasonable. She noted that MBNA  
had said that Mrs M needed to repay the debt and she thought this was fair as the money 
wasnt her money in the first place. 
Mrs M disagreed. She said that this situation had caused her great stress and anxiety for the 
past few months, and she had ended up in debt because of MBNAs actions. She had paid 
MBNA a fair portion of the money and she thought it only fair that payment of the remaining 
amount should be waived by the lender instead of its offer to pay £200 compensation. Mrs M 
was also concerned that the investigator hadnt listened to the recordings of calls between 
her and MBNA.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, as an 
ombudsman, to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs M experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about the issues raised in this complaint. I note that MBNA accepts that it made the 
payment to Mrs M in error. So, my role here is to assess whether I think MBNA should do 
more to compensate Mrs M than the offer it has already made her.
In setting out the circumstances of this case above, Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I consider a fair 
outcome.
I asked the investigator to ask MBNA for recordings of the four calls between Mrs M and 
MBNA in August 2022 which Ive listened to. I can see that these lasted around 65 minutes 
in total, although I expect Mrs M would also have had to wait some time for her calls to be 
answered before the recordings began. I set out below a summary of the calls.
1 August 2022
Mrs M told MBNA that shed noticed a credit payment on her account which must have been 
made by mistake. MBNA said it would find out what to do with the payment. Mrs M said she 
was happy for the payment to be returned to the sender. MBNA said it would be sorted in 
two working days and Mrs M would be left with a nil balance after that.
4 August 2022
Mrs M was put through to MBNAs staff member after one of MBNAs staff had said they 
would transfer the credit balance to her. The second staff member said shed find out where 
the money had come from. Mrs M said she had checked all her accounts but couldnt find 
the source of the payment. MBNA said it was possible that the sender had typed in the 
wrong account number so they should wait to see if the payment would be recalled. Mrs M 
should wait a couple of days whilst MBNA investigated.
8 August 2022
Mrs M wants to close the account. MBNA told Mrs M that the account could be closed after 
someone contacted it to say that the credit balance belonged to them. Mrs M wants to know 
how it could have happened.
18 August 2022
Mrs M rings in to close her account. Shes concerned how the money has got into her 
account. MBNAs staff member, after speaking to a manager, says that they dont want    
Mrs M to keep having to call in and going round in circles. MBNA would pay the credit 
balance to Mrs Ms current account to get the card account closed. It told Mrs M that nothing 
bad was going to happen. Mrs M reminded MBNA on at least two occasions that the money 
didnt belong to her. She asked for a letter confirming the account closure and the transfer of 
the money to be sent to her which MBNA agreed to do.I think its clear from the above calls that Mrs M was concerned as to how the payment 
reached her account and that she wanted the money to be sent to its rightful owner and 
repeated this several times to MBNA. She was also keen for the account to be closed. 
I think MBNA provided some inaccurate information to Mrs M about the time it would take to 
investigate the matter, its assurance that nothing bad would happen and in its failure to 
provide Mrs M with a letter to confirm the transfer being made to her current account which 
shed requested. MBNA didnt resolve the credit balance on Mrs Ms card account (by paying 
the money to her current account) for 17 days. So, I can see that Mrs M would have been 
concerned over that period. 
I note that Mrs M spent some of the money shed received from MBNA after the call on       
18 August 2022. I think she would have been reassured by MBNA in that call that it was 
treating the money as hers. So, I think Mrs M acted reasonably in spending some of the 
money at that stage.
Four days later Mrs M checked to see if the card account had been closed. I think she would 
have been very concerned to see that her account was no longer showing a nil balance and 
that the account had been debited with an amount around the size of the original balance 
credited to her in error. Mrs M phoned MBNA to complain. She then received its final 
response letter asking her to repay the debt. I can understand that this would have worried 
Mrs M as she had spent some of the money shed received from MBNA and wasnt in a 
position to repay the whole amount to it.
I can see that Mrs M has been inconvenienced by having to make at least five phone calls to 
MBNA over several weeks in August 2022 and that shed experienced worry over this 
period. I can see she would then have been distressed to be told she owed MBNA money 
which she didnt have.
I think that as a result of MBNAs actions, Mrs M has suffered distress and inconvenience 
and MBNA should compensate her for this.
Having carefully thought about everything and paying attention to Mrs Ms submissions on 
why the compensation award should be higher, I thought it would be appropriate for MBNA 
to pay Mrs M £250 compensation (instead of the £200 compensation already offered) and to 
take the actions it offered to take in November 2022 regarding the waiver of interest and 
amending Mrs Ms credit file. I asked the investigator to contact MBNA and Mrs M and to ask 
for their comments on this.
Mrs M responded to say that she agreed to compensation of £250 and that this could be 
credited to her card account. She also said that MBNA had been charging her interest on the 
account which she had been paying along with keeping up with regular payments. She 
assumed that MBNA would reimburse or credit these interest charges back on to the 
account. She was happy for the interest refund to be credited to her card account.
MBNA responded to say that it agreed to pay Mrs M £250 compensation in full and final 
settlement of this complaint. Whilst it had waived interest for three months up to and 
including November 2022, it would also refund the interest paid from December 2022 to      
23 January 2023 as a gesture of goodwill. Once there was a nil balance, it would close the 
account.
I was concerned that although MBNA had agreed to pay compensation of £250, it appeared 
from its response that it was no longer agreeing to waive the interest on the shortfall which it 
had agreed to do in a call with the investigator on 21 November 2022. This was also reflected in the investigators view. MBNA also said in that call that no interest and charges 
had been applied and that once the balance had been repaid, it would amend Mrs Ms credit 
file.
In these circumstances, I asked the investigator to contact MBNA again to ask for 
confirmation that no interest would be charged on the outstanding balance and that it would 
amend Mrs Ms credit file to remove all adverse information once the balance had been 
repaid. MBNA has responded to provide this confirmation.
As both parties have agreed my thoughts on what would be an appropriate outcome here, it 
follows that I uphold this complaint in part and require MBNA to take the following steps.
Putting things right  what MBNA needs to do
MBNA should put things right for Mrs M as follows:-
1. Credit Mrs Ms card account with £250 compensation;
2. Credit Mrs Ms card account with interest paid by Mrs M on the shortfall that hasnt 
already been refunded;
3. Waive the payment of interest on the shortfall going forward; and
4. Remove any adverse entries (resulting from the shortfall) from Mrs Ms credit file 
upon repayment of the shortfall. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order MBNA Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading 
Putting things right  what MBNA needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman