DRN-3914939
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Barclays Banks UK PLC wont refund all the money he lost as part of a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Barclays has already accepted these payments were out of character  and that it 
shouldve done more to warn Mr W that he might be the victim of a scam. So the only 
issue for me to decide is whether it was fair to refund Mr W 50% of what he lost on 
the basis that he was partly to blame for his losses.
The starting point for contributory negligence is considering what a reasonable 
person would be expected to have done in the circumstances  and whether Mr Ws 
actions fell below that.
Mr W said he found the company on Google when he searched how to get his money 
back from a recent investment scam  and that he saw positive reviews on social 
media and some forums. They told him theyd track and lock the funds he lost with 
their Bitcoin technology. They also said theyd recover his loss by adding Bitcoins to 
their wallet which they strengthen and sell.
Given Mr Ws recent experience, Id have reasonably expected him to have checked 
the company with more reputable sources before sending money. And while I 
appreciate Mr Ws desperation and lack of experience in Bitcoin, I think he 
reasonably ought to have questioned and researched their purported methods of 
recovery. The Bitcoin technology is hard to make sense of (particularly for an 
investment scam that I cant see involved Bitcoin) and the other method is seemingly 
another investment.
Mr W mentioned being reassured as they took him through a complicated ID process 
and had expertise in the scam hed experienced. The company was also on 
Companies House and was presented professionally. But Im mindful that the 
previous scam had these features too. So I think Mr W ought to have treated this with 
more caution.
While I recognise the scammers wouldve put him under pressure, I also consider 
that he ought to have been alarmed by the money he was being asked for. 
Ultimately, Mr W sent more than he lost in the original scam.
Taking this all into account, Im satisfied that a 50% deduction is fair to reflect Mr Ws 
contributory negligence.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman