DRN-3376465
The complaint
Mr F complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc failed to provide him with the nectar points he was
expecting with his personal loan.
What happened
Mr F took out a personal loan with Sainsburys in December 2020. He says he did so using
an aggregator, or price comparison, website. Mr F says he chose Sainsburys because of an
offer which said hed receive £30 worth of nectar points.
Mr F didnt receive the points, so he complained to Sainsburys. They said that such
promotions are only available when applying directly on their website, not through an
aggregator.
But Mr F said hed been redirected from the aggregator to the Sainsburys website, and
that he had completed his application there. Sainsburys maintained that Mr F couldnt have
qualified for such a promotion when starting his application through the aggregator website.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They found a promotion, which looked similar to
the one described by Mr F, existed and he felt he must have seen it to now know about it.
The investigator felt, on balance, that Mr F had been redirected to the Sainsburys website
and had seen the promotion. The investigator said Sainsburys should give Mr F the nectar
points.
Sainsburys didnt agree. They maintained that the offer wasnt available when applying
through the aggregator website.
Agreement couldnt be reached so the matter was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines, explaining why I wasnt planning to uphold
Mr Fs complaint.
Sainsburys have explained that promotions, such as the one Mr F has described, are only
available when applying directly with them. And that theyre not available to customers who
start their applications through an aggregator website.
Mr F has explained that he applied through an aggregator website and that can be seen on
his credit agreement too, because it carries the aggregators name.
That means its left for me to decide whether or not the promotion was available to Mr F
when he was redirected to the Sainsburys website.
Sainsburys has provided me with evidence that shows customers qualified for the promotion
by applying directly through SainsburysBank.co.uk/loans6000. Mr F started his application
on the aggregator website instead, so I dont think he qualified for the offer even if he was 
later directed to the Sainsburys website.
Overall, while Ive no doubt that Mr F saw the promotion, I think its unlikely he applied for it
in the way required to obtain the points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F replied to my decision to say he was happy with it. Sainsburys replied to say they had 
nothing further to add. Because of this, I havent changed my decision and I still dont uphold 
Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman