DRN-2942373
The complaint
Mr H complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his pension with another provider into his pension plan held with them. He 
feels that the advice he received has caused him to be financially disadvantaged.
What happened
Mr H held a Retirement Account with SJP which began on 26 August 2010. 
Mr H met with his SJP adviser in March 2018. The adviser conducted a financial review. 
During the review, a pension plan  split into three parts  that Mr H held with another 
provider was discussed. 
The Suitability Letter produced at the time of the advice said that Mr H wanted to transfer his 
pension with the other provider to SJP so that he could consolidate his pension 
arrangements. The Suitability Letter also stated that the adviser had discussed both the 
illustration that had been produced and the effect of charges on the plan. And referenced 
that Mr H had been given the With Profits fact sheet relating to his investments with the other 
provider. Mr H signed the client declaration attached to the Suitability Letter.
The Illustration projected the possible retirement benefits available to Mr H if he transferred 
the pension. It also detailed how much the advice would cost. The Illustration also said that 
there would be an Early Withdrawal Charge (EWC) if the pension was encashed within the 
first six years of investment. 
Mr H said that when a different adviser reviewed the advice in December 2019 he realised 
that his SJP adviser hadnt told him that around 60% of the value of the pension hed 
transferred into SJP had a guaranteed growth rate of 4% each year. So he complained to 
SJP. 
Mr H was unhappy with the advice SJP had given him to transfer. He said he hadnt been 
advised that an EWC would apply to his pension account, regardless of the reason for 
transfer, for a period of six years. He also said that he hadnt been told that his adviser would 
receive a payment for recommending the transfer. Mr H also complained that his adviser 
hadnt made him aware that two of the three pension plans he held with the other provider 
had a minimum guaranteed growth rate of 4% each year. He felt this was a valuable benefit 
which he wouldnt have given up if hed known about it. 
SJP issued their first final response letter on 4 February 2020. They didnt uphold the 
complaint, but they did make an offer as a gesture of goodwill. They said that Mr Hs original 
pension provider had confirmed that a 4% annual guaranteed growth rate applied to two of 
the three plans hed held with them, which was around 55% of his total investment with 
them. They said that Mr Hs Retirement Account had achieved an average annual growth of 
5.3% since the transfer from the other provider had been completed. And provided evidence 
to that effect. They noted that the documentation the other provider had sent them at the 
time of the advice hadnt explained the guarantees which applied to Mr Hs plan. But that 
even if the 4% guarantee had been detailed, their adviser would still have recommended the 
transfer. They said this was because the 4% guarantee had been included in the original 
providers pension projections which had been used to assess the outperformance required 
to match the benefits in retirement. 
Although they felt that their adviser had acted in good faith in making the transfer 
recommendation, SJP said theyd completed a calculation to find out if Mr H had suffered 
financially due to the transfer. They asked the original provider to provide them with a current 
notional value for each of the plans had they remained invested with them. But the original 
provider was unable to provide such values. So, in order to put Mr H back to the financial 
position he would have be in, but for the advice to transfer, they used the return from what 
they considered an appropriate benchmark - the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index. Their calculation indicated that Mr H was £2,293.15 worse off than he 
wouldve been had he not transferred. 
SJP offered to round this figure up to £2,300 as a gesture of goodwill. And additionally 
offered a further £250 for the trouble and upset Mr H had faced. They also agreed to waive 
the EWC if Mr H chose to transfer his plan away from SJP within six months. 
Mr H was unhappy with SJPs offer. He felt that the recent stock market uncertainly had 
highlighted how important and valuable the annual 4% guarantee had been. So he didnt 
consider that the offer theyd made was enough to recompense him for the loss of that 
guarantee. He felt that the only fair way to recompense him would be for him to be put back 
into exactly the same situation he was in before the transfer, with the guarantee intact. He 
also said that the SJP adviser hadnt gone through the Key Features document in detail with 
him. Or drawn his attention to the fee that was being charged for the advice. He said he 
wouldve expected his adviser to have asked about the existing plan and found out about 
any contractual guarantees. 
Mr H said signed an acceptance of offer form in February 2020. But said that hed paid for 
independent advice on the offer and would also like to be recompensed for the cost of that 
advice. He took back his acceptance of offer. 
SJP initially declined to increase their offer to include the advice costs. They said that theyd 
referred Mr H to this service for a review of his complaint, and that wouldve been free of 
charge. But, on 25 February 2020, they agreed to increase their offer by £350 to cover the 
advice costs. Their offer was now £2,900 in total, subject to Mr H providing confirmation of 
the fee hed paid for the advice. 
Mr H was still unhappy with SJPs offer, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt consider that SJP should take any further action over and above what 
theyd already offered to do. She felt that their offer was fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of the complaint. She didnt agree with Mr H that SJP had ignored the 4% 
annual guarantee in their offer, as the guarantee was accounted for in the original providers 
projections. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold the complaint. I consider that SJPs offer takes 
reasonable steps to put things right. Ill explain why Ive come to this decision.Mr H considers that SJP shouldve told him about the guarantee before the transfer so that 
he could decide whether the guarantee was valuable or not. He said that in not telling him 
about the guarantee, they didnt allow him to make an informed decision. He feels that he 
should be put back into the position he wouldve been in had the transfer not taken place, 
with the guarantee intact. Mr H also feels that SJP didnt explain the EWC or the fee they 
would charge for the advice. 
SJP consider that the advice to transfer was suitable. While not upholding Mr Hs complaint, 
theyve explained that they made their redress offer to pragmatically resolve Mr Hs 
complaint. They said that as the original provider wasnt able to provide the notional values 
assuming Mr H had remained invested with them, they carried out a loss comparison in line 
with this services guidance, using our benchmark.
Ill consider each of Mr Hs complaint points separately. Ill first consider whether the transfer 
would still have gone ahead if Mr H had been fully informed about the guarantee.
Would the transfer have still gone ahead if the terms of the guarantee had been explained?
Mr H transferred £50,972.88 into SJP on 29 March 2018. The amount was from three sub-
plans. Two of these plans  with a combined total value of around 54% of the total 
transferred  were invested in a With-Profits plan with the 4% annual guarantee. 
From what Ive seen, on 22 January 2018, ahead of the advice, SJP asked the original 
provider for detailed information about the plans Mr H held with them. Their information 
request included the following question about With-Profit plan investments:
Is the plan invested in With Profits? If so, please also confirm the following:
-Details of with profits guarantees and guarantee charge
Ive seen no evidence that the original provider told SJP that there was a 4% guarantee 
connected to two of the three sub-plans. Ive also reviewed the Key Features document, and 
note that theres no clear information about this guarantee in there either. While I 
acknowledge that Mr H didnt consider that SJP had asked about any contractual guarantees 
in his existing plan, I can see that they did ask. But Ive seen no evidence that the 4% 
guarantee was ever highlighted to them. 
The 9 March 2018 Suitability Letter reflected that the original providers pension had no 
guarantees. Overall, based on what Ive seen, SJP werent given the information about the 
4% guarantee, despite asking for it. 
It has now become apparent that two of the three sub-plans, which were invested before 1 
January 2006, held the 4% guarantee. From what Ive seen, SJP didnt have this fully 
confirmed by the original provider until 3 February 2020. A phone note from this time stated:
I asked about guaranteed growth rates on the plans and she stated that the Ex. With Profits 
(1) fund did not have a guarantee but the Ex. With Profits 3A fund does have a 4% 
guaranteed growth rate applicable.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that SJP couldnt have known about the 4% 
guarantee at the time of the advice. So Ive gone on to consider whether  if they had known 
and made it clear to Mr H  they wouldve made a different recommendation.
Mr H said that if hed know about the guarantee, he couldve made a decision to either 
transfer that plan or keep it. But that it wouldve been his choice, based on all the facts, not SJPs. He also said that the recent market volatility had showed how important the 4% 
guarantee was. Mr H said that he didnt think SJPs offer was fair or reasonable because it 
made no allowance for the loss of the guarantee. 
SJP evidenced that Mr Hs Retirement Account  in which the transfer had been invested - 
had achieved an average annual growth of 5.3% since the transfer. And said that even if the 
4% guarantee had been fully explained, their adviser would still have recommended the 
transfer, as the guarantee had been included in the original providers pension projections 
which had been used to assess the outperformance required to match the benefits in 
retirement. In effect, the critical yield calculations theyd carried out showed that the 
transfer would likely be beneficial for Mr H, even allowing for the 4% guarantee.
Mr H said that he didnt think that the projections his original provider had used had allowed 
for the guarantee. He said that he understood that the original provider had been unable to 
project returns on anything other than regulatory guidelines. Therefore he felt that the 
projections theyd produced hadnt taken account of the guarantee. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence and what both parties have said. I acknowledge that 
the projections the original provider issued may not have allowed for the 4% guarantee. The 
notes to the projections dont reference it. But I cant hold SJP responsible for that. If Mr H is 
correct that the projections provided couldnt allow for the 4% guarantee, I have to consider 
that the projections were correctly produced. And that SJP acted fairly when they used those 
projections when comparing Mr Hs options. 
I acknowledge that Mr H now considers that the 4% guarantee is an extremely valuable 
benefit. But Im satisfied that he feels this way now having recently experienced considerable 
market volatility. Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve felt the same way at the time of the 
advice. I consider that even if the 4% guarantee had been fully explained to Mr H, he would 
still have accepted the transfer recommendation. I say this because the notes recorded in 
the financial review carried out at the time of the advice record that Mr H was keen to move 
away from With Profits investments. These said: 
[Mr H] also liked the transparent charging structure of SJP Unit Linked pension rather than 
With Profits as per [original provider name] 
The notes also said that Mr H wanted to consolidate his pensions into his SJP pension for 
ease of management. And that he had been delighted with the consistent returns of his SJP 
Portfolio over the years. The notes also said that he liked and understood the SJP approach 
to wealth management and their use of the investment committee. 
While Ive seen evidence of rational reasons for the transfer going ahead, Ive seen no 
evidence that at the time of the advice Mr H had any reason to consider that the guarantee  
with its constraints  was as valuable as he now considers it to be. Therefore I consider that 
even if the 4% guarantee had been fully explained to Mr H, he still wouldve decided to 
transfer.
I next considered whether SJP explained both the EWC and the charges involved with the 
advice, at the time it was given.
Did SJP explain the EWC and the fees they would charge?
Mr H said that he hadnt been told that an EWC would apply to his pension account. 
SJP said that the illustration theyd issued at the time of the advice had confirmed both the 
EWC and the cost of initial advice. Ive reviewed the illustration. This said:
If you encash within the first six years of an investment there will be a product early 
withdrawal charge of 1% of the value of your fund in respect of this investment.
The Suitability Letter also explained the EWC in detail. Mr H signed the client declaration 
attached to the Suitability Letter, indicating he had read and understood the contents. 
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied that the EWC was explained to Mr H. 
Mt H also said that he hadnt been told that his adviser would receive a payment for 
recommending the transfer.
Ive reviewed the illustration, as SJP said the adviser fees were covered in that. This said:
We charge for our initial advice and for our ongoing advice. 4.5% of your initial investment 
will be used to pay for initial advice and an annual charge of 0.25% will be charged for the 
ongoing advice and the relationship with your adviser.
The cost of the initial advice and our services is 4.5% of the amount you invest and 
will be £2,269.
The illustration went on to explain in detail what the cost covered. Therefore, based on the 
evidence, Im satisfied that the cost of the initial advice was explained to Mr H. 
Ive gone on to consider the goodwill offer of redress SJP has made to Mr H, and whether it 
is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of this complaint. 
SJP asked the original provider to calculate what it would cost to put Mr H back to the 
position he wouldve been in if he hadnt transferred. The original provider was unable to do 
this. So SJP asked them to provide alternative information so that they could carry out a 
different redress calculation. SJP used what this service would consider an appropriate 
benchmark - the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index  for this purpose. 
The calculation indicated that Mr H was £2,293.15 worse off than he wouldve been had he 
not transferred. 
SJP have in the end offered Mr H the following:
- £2,300 in respect of the loss due to the transfer
- £250 for the trouble and upset caused
- £350 (on receipt of confirmation of the fee charge) in respect of financial advice on 
the offer
- to waive the EWC if Mr H chose to transfer his plan away from SJP within six 
months. 
SJP have confirmed to this service that their offer still stands if Mr H chooses to accept it.
Overall, Ive found no evidence that SJP made any errors when they recommended that Mr 
H transferred his pension. SJP told this service that they made the goodwill offer to Mr H  
despite being satisfied that the advice to transfer was suitable  because they attempt to 
resolve complaints pragmatically, and because they appreciate not all complaints are 
completely black and white. As Ive found no errors in the advice, I dont consider that it 
would be fair or reasonable to ask SJP to do any more than theyve already offered to do. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman