DRN-2046386
The complaint
Ms L complains MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
her alongside a credit card in 1999. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Through her representatives, 
Ms L disagreed with that view and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms L, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below. 
I can see that PPI was sold to Ms L when she completed an application form for her credit 
card. With that in mind, I think she would have been able to complete the application in her 
own time and at her own pace. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether it was made clear to Ms L that PPI was optional 
and that she didnt have to take the policy out if she didnt want it. I can see there were two 
equally prominent boxes to tick on the application form  one to indicate she wanted PPI and 
another to say she did not. Ms L has selected the yes box to indicate she wanted a policy. I 
think it would have been sufficiently clear that if she didnt want the cover, she could have 
just ticked no. 
I dont think this was an advised sale. I say this because the information before me doesnt 
suggest PPI was recommended to Ms L after an assessment of her financial circumstances. 
Even so, MBNA still had to give Ms L enough information about the cover so she could 
decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her circumstances. That information should 
have been clear, fair and not misleading. 
Looking at the application form, I can see how the information MBNA provided to Ms L could 
have been better. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I also 
have to consider whether she would have acted differently if MBNA had told her everything it 
should have done. To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at what we know about the 
terms and conditions. And Ive also thought about what Ms L told us about her personal 
circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if shed made a claim on the PPI policy, 3% of Ms Ls credit card balance 
would have been repaid for every month she was out of work up to a maximum of 12 months 
if she lost her job or until she returned to work if she fell ill. Ms L told us that she wasnt 
entitled to any contractual sick pay and she didnt have any other way of repaying her credit 
card if she was out of work. So I think the PPI could have been useful for her if she became 
sick or she was made redundant. 
Ms L told us she was in good health at the time the cover was sold. So I dont think shed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual about her circumstances that would have stopped her from being 
able to make a successful claim if she needed to.
 
So putting all of these things together, I dont think more or better information about the 
cover would have caused Ms L to act differently. And with that in mind, I cant reasonably 
say that PPI was mis-sold. 
I realise my decision will be disappointing for Ms L, but for the reasons set out above, I 
havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman