DRN-3751095
The complaint
Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y have complained about Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of a claim 
they made for damage to communal gates at their housing development, and its decision to 
decline a claim they made for stolen plants.
What happened
Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y are bringing their complaint together under the block insurance 
policy for their housing development  which is underwritten by Allianz. The policy is in the 
name of the property factor  who Ill call J  as well as the joint proprietors of the 
development. Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y are some of the joint proprietors of the development.
The details of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y have sought to complain 
about two claims  one regarding damage to electric gates, and one regarding allegedly 
stolen plants. 
Allianz accepted the claim for damage to the electric gates and paid a cash settlement. It 
paid the property factor  J  half of the cost of repairing the gates directly and paid the 
second half of the cost to Js appointed contractor to finish the repairs.
Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y are unhappy with the quality of repairs to the gate. They feel Allianz 
is responsible for correcting any outstanding issues with the gates or meeting the cost of 
doing so. But Allianz says its already fulfilled its obligations by settling the claim. It says any 
issues with the repairs should be taken up with J or its contractor.
In addition, Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y have sought to claim for stolen plants from an area of the 
grounds in the development. They say several plants, which play a key water protection role, 
were removed from site without authorisation. So, theyve sought to claim under the theft 
cover provided by the block policy.
Allianz declined this claim on the basis that there hadnt been a theft. Instead it says the 
plants were removed at the direction of one of the leaseholders. Allianz says any dispute 
regarding this is a civil matter between the leaseholders.
One of our investigators was assigned to this complaint. She felt it was one that our service 
should dismiss without considering its merits. She said J was a key party to the 
circumstances of the complaint, and so it would be inappropriate for our service to consider 
the complaint without it being joined. 
Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y didnt agree with our investigator. They said J has a policy of not 
entering into contracts, so it isnt fair that their ability to bring a complaint should be impacted 
by J not being involved.
Because Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I 
issued a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
provisional findings, before I reached my final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont agree with our investigators conclusions that we should 
dismiss this complaint without considering its merits. Its true that J is a named 
policyholder, as well as a further 30 leaseholders, and that those policyholders 
havent joined the complaint alongside Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y. But Im satisfied I can 
answer the merits of the complaint without causing any detriment to those parties not 
joined, so Im minded to do so.
I communicated this to Allianz, and it agreed that an answer, from our service, on the 
merits will be beneficial to all parties. As our service hasnt yet given a first answer on 
the merits of the complaint, Im issuing a provisional decision. This allows the parties 
an opportunity to comment before I reach a final decision.
There has been extensive background to this complaint as the claims have been 
going on (or in dispute) for several years. Its not my intention to comment on every 
event or dispute thats arisen during that time. Instead Ill focus only on the issues I 
believe are key to delivering a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. This 
isnt meant as a discourtesy to the parties, rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service, and my role within it.
The complaint relates to two separate claims. For ease of reference, Ill address them 
in turn.
The gates
Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y are unhappy with the works carried out to the gates following 
the insurance claim.
Allianz says its met its obligations to the policyholders by paying a cash settlement to 
J (and its appointed contractor). It says any issues with the works carried out should 
be raised with J or the contractor directly.
The policy explains the basis of the cover Allianz provides on page 3:
If the Property Insured or any part of such Property at the Premises suffers 
Damage during the Period of Insurance other than by an excluded cause the 
Insurer will pay to the Insured the value of the Property Insured or the amount 
of the Damage at the time of its loss destruction or damage in respect of each 
item specified in the ScheduleAllianz accepted the claim and paid a cash settlement to J, based on quotes it 
provided. J is a named policyholder and is the policyholder who arranged the 
insurance. As the property factor, J would have also been the party responsible for 
putting right the damage to the gate. So, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
Allianz to settle the claim by paying a cash settlement to J (or its appointed contractor 
at its instruction). And by doing so, Im satisfied that Allianz met its obligations under 
the policy, with regard to this claim.
I note that Allianz has highlighted to Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y that Js contractor 
previously confirmed that any snagging issues with the gates can be carried out 
under the contractors warranty. Should Mrs M, Mrs P or Mr Y remain unhappy with 
anything related to the repairs carried out by Js contractor, they should take it up 
with them directly, or with J as the party who appointed them. 
Im satisfied that Allianz has no further obligations under this claim, based on the 
terms of the policy or what is fair and reasonable. It follows that Im not currently 
intending to make any direction against Allianz with respect to this part of the 
complaint.
The plants
Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y have sought to claim for stolen aquatic plants. They say the 
plants played a key water protection role at their housing development and they have 
been removed without authorisation.
Allianz has declined the claim on the basis that there hasnt been an insured event. It 
says another leaseholder instructed the developments gardener to remove the 
plants. Allianz has provided a statement from the gardener confirming this, as well as 
information from the police confirming the matter is not being treated as a theft but 
rather a civil dispute between leaseholders.
Based on the statement provided by the gardener, the police appear to have been 
satisfied that no crime (and/or theft) occurred. Based on this. And having considered 
the available evidence, Im satisfied that Allianzs decision to decline this claim on the 
basis that no theft occurred is both in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, 
and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
It follows that Im not currently intending to make any direction against Allianz with 
respect to this part of the complaint either.
I said Id wait two weeks to allow the parties to make further representations before I 
reached a final decision.
Allianz didnt provide any comments by the deadline provided.
Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y didnt agree with my provisional conclusions. In summary, they said:
The contract in question is a policy between Allianz and J, not Allianz and the 
leaseholders.
Theyve sought legal opinion which said as J is the policyholder, Allianz refusing the 
claim on the basis that the plants were removed by a leaseholder (and so no theft 
occurred) isnt lawful.
 The claim could only be refused on the basis that no theft occurred if the perpetrator 
were an employee or agent of J.
In this case, the alleged perpetrator was a third party (a leaseholder) and not an 
employee or agent of J. So, its unfair for the theft claim to be refused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the arguments raised in response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, my conclusions remain unchanged. Ill explain why, using the same 
subheadings I used in my provisional decision.
The gates
Neither party provided any further evidence or arguments about the gates. So, Ive not been 
persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I therefore dont 
uphold this element of the complaint.
The plants
The additional arguments raised in response to my provisional decision focused on Allianzs 
decision to decline the claim for the plants.
I should be clear here that it is not my role to decide whether or not the plants were stolen, 
as a matter of law. Rather, I need to decide whether Allianzs decision to decline the claim 
on the basis that no insured event (theft) took place is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Y have argued that the insurance contract is between J (the named 
policyholder) and Allianz. But while J may have been the party who took out the insurance, 
its clear that it was also taken out for the benefit of the leaseholders. And, as stated in my 
provisional decision, the named policyholders are actually J and the joint proprietors of the 
housing development. So, I dont agree that the leaseholders are not policyholders in this 
case. I also dont agree with Mrs M, Mrs P and Mr Ys assertion that a leaseholder 
instructing the plants removal must amount to theft because that leaseholder isnt an 
employee or agent of J. 
In deciding whether Allianz fairly declined the claim, I think its more relevant to look at who 
actually removed the plants, which the evidence shows was the gardener - an agent or 
employee of J. I also note that the police specifically confirmed that while the gardener may 
not have followed protocol, this didnt amount to criminal activity. The police clearly stated 
this was, in their view, a civil mater. So, based on everything that happened, I remain of the 
view that it was reasonable for Allianz to conclude the removal of the plants wasnt an act of 
theft.
It follows that Im satisfied that Allianzs decision to decline the claim, on the basis there has 
been no insured event, was fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs M, Mrs P 
and Mr Ys complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M, Mrs P and 
Mr Y to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman