DRN-3825418
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly agreed a 50/50 split in 
liability with a third party when he made a claim.
What happened
Mr S insured his car with Advantage. He was involved in an accident where he and a third 
party collided at a roundabout and made a claim. When he spoke to Advantage he said he 
thought the third party was at fault for the collision. 
After assessing the claim, and receiving information from the third partys insurer, Advantage 
settled the claim and agreed a 50/50 share of liability, meaning both Mr S and the third party 
had a fault claim recorded against them.
Mr S was unhappy about this and complained to Advantage. He also complained about a 
lack of communication from Advantage during the course of the claim. 
Advantage investigated his complaint and concluded that the service Mr S had received 
hadnt been to the required standard. It paid £30 compensation in recognition of this. It did 
however say that it thought its decision to accept a split in liability was fair and in line with 
similar incidents. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Advantages actions 
were fair. She thought Advantages liability decision was reasonable, and the compensation 
offered was suitable for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S.
Mr S didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making this decision, my role isnt to conclude who was at fault for the collision. Im 
considering whether, in light of the evidence available, Advantage made a reasonable 
decision to accept a 50/50 split in liability, which in effect meant that Advantage and the third 
party insurer agreed that both parties were partially at fault.
Mr S policy, in common with many car insurance policies, contains whats known as a 
subrogation clause. The condition allows an insurer to agree liability for incidents with third 
parties without the agreement of the policyholder. In Mr S policy, this says: 
Your insurer has the right to: 
Take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim 
Take legal action over any claim. 
These actions may be taken in your name or the name of any insured person
The inclusion of this condition doesnt mean that any decision taken by Advantage cant be 
disputed by a policyholder, or that wed always say an insurer can settle a claim as it 
chooses because the policy includes such a condition. We approach these complaints by 
considering whether a reasonable decision has been made by the insurer in light of the 
evidence available, taking into account the law, Highway Code, relevant case law and other 
factors.
Mr S says the third party was at fault because they were in the wrong lane on the 
roundabout. When he came to exit the third party continued on the roundabout when they 
should have exited it based on the lane they were in, causing the collision. That the third 
party was in the wrong lane doesnt seem to be disputed by any of Mr S, the third party or 
the insurers.
The third party held Mr S responsible for the collision because they said hed entered the 
lane they were in without checking it was clear, which caused the collision. Theres no 
dispute Mr S entered the lane the third party was in, but he says hed checked it was clear 
before entering the lane and the third party had accelerated, meaning he struck the third 
party with the front of his car.
There was no evidence available to Advantage apart from the accounts of Mr S and the third 
party. No CCTV, independent witnesses or other evidence was available to confirm what 
had happened. 
The third party insurer didnt accept their policyholder was at fault, and Advantage didnt 
think Mr S was at fault. In the absence of an agreement to split liability between the insurers, 
the only option would have been to refer the matter to court. There, the court could have 
concluded that Mr S was at fault, or the third party, or also that the liability should be split.
It's fair to say Advantage should only proceed to take a liability dispute to court, and 
potentially incur significant costs, if its confident on the evidence available that it would be 
successful. The policys subrogation rights explicitly cater for this  it has no obligation to 
pursue a matter to court simply because its policyholder says the other party was at fault.
Advantage concluded on the basis of the accounts provided, both parties should be held 
partially responsible for the collision. The third party was in the wrong lane, but it couldnt be 
proven, either from the accounts or the nature of the damage to the cars, that the lane Mr S 
moved into had been clear when he started the manoeuvre. 
Advantage referenced case law which said that in similar situations, the courts had 
determined that liability should be split. I know Mr S says the road markings in his case were 
different, but I dont think its unreasonable for Advantage to refer to the case law when its 
considering what a court would most likely decide. 
The evidence available to Advantage meant it couldnt be confident that pursuing the matter 
in court would be successful. The two accounts of what had happened couldnt be 
corroborated by other, independent evidence, and previous similar cases had been settled 
as a 50/50 split in liability.
I cant therefore conclude Advantage acted unreasonably in agreeing a 50/50 liability split 
with the third party insurer. I know Mr S is certain he wasnt at fault for the collision but I dont 
think it would be reasonable to ask Advantage to have done anything differently based on 
the evidence available.
I also think the £30 compensation paid by Advantage recognises the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the lack of communication about the liability decision. I agree this should have been communicated better by Advantage, as it seems to be accepted that Mr S 
only found out about the decision when he contacted Advantage. He was caused a small 
amount of distress and inconvenience by not knowing the outcome and having to chase this 
up himself. 
However, the primary distress Mr S suffered was because he felt an unreasonable decision 
to split liability was made. As Ive outlined above, Im satisfied that Advantage has made a 
reasonable decision to accept split liability, so I cant ask Advantage to compensate Mr S for 
this, as it hasnt acted unfairly.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. I dont require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman