DRN-2695487
The complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W applied for a credit card from Aqua. This was approved on 1 May 2016 with a limit of 
£600. The limit was unchanged. In September 2018, Aqua sent Mr W a Notice of Default. 
The balance was £655.31. In June 2019 the account was repaid, and account closed.
Mr W complained that Aqua shouldnt have given him the card. He had a number of Payday 
loans and was struggling to pay his debts. Aqua shouldve been aware of this. He wanted 
the interest hed paid refunded and his credit file amended to remove adverse entries.
Aqua said that Mr Ws application showed he earned £17,500 per annum, with only one 
other debt of £1,400. There was one defaulted debt shown in their credit search  one for 
£1,500. They could see that after he was given the card, he took on more Payday loans. But 
at the time of his application, given Mr Ws credit profile, they said they were correct in 
approving the card with a limit of £600. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought that Aqua completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks when they approved Mr Ws card. Theyd considered his salary of 
£17,500 - and they saw he had one other debt of £1,400. He had no County Court 
Judgments (CCJs). There was one default  but that was 61 months before, so it was 
considered OK. Aqua didnt see that Mr W had any Payday loans.
Mr W asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said he had a lot of other 
debts, including Payday loans at the time  so Aquas searches must have shown these.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W told us that he had a lot of other debts and Payday loans when he applied for the card. 
He was struggling with his debts  and the new one with Aqua made things worse. He said 
he shouldnt have been given the card. Hed paid Aqua a lot of interest and his credit file had 
been marked  so he wanted things put right. He also said to us that hed seen other similar 
complaints upheld.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether Aqua 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
I agree that Mr Ws application for a credit card  dated 1 May 2016  looked OK. He stated 
his income to be £17,500 per annum with only one other debt of £1,400. His application said 
he was living with his parents. There was one default showing on Aquas credit search  but 
this was 61 months before, so that was OK. So, on the face of it, Aqua made the right 
decision to issue Mr W with a card  with a modest limit of £600.
Mr W has told us that he had a lot of other debts at the time, including Payday loans. We 
asked him for his credit record, which he obtained. I looked at this. At the time of Mr Ws 
application, it shows there was one such loan in operation, and payments were being made. 
I could see four other debts in the three months before May 2016  and these were all 
shown as settled  this means paid off. So  it would look as though Mr W was meeting his 
commitments with other lenders  which was a good sign. I could also see that Mr W later 
took out about six other Payday loans  but after he applied for the Aqua card on 1 May 
2016  so, his problems with debts would seem to arise later. He told Aqua that he became 
unemployed in April 2017.
Mr W said to us that he thought other similar complaints hed seen have been upheld. All I 
can say is that Ive looked at his complaint in isolation and considered his own 
circumstances. 
So - my decision is that Aqua were correct in giving Mr W the card in May 2016  and acted 
reasonably and proportionately. So  I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman