DRN-3837681
Complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Skrill Limited (Skrill) closed her account without notice.
Background
In July 2022, Skrill took the decision to review Mrs Bs account. As a result of its review, 
Skrill decided to close Mrs Bs account with immediate effect. Mrs B complained about 
Skrills actions. Skrill didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. As Mrs B remained dissatisfied, Mrs B 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Bs concerns. She didnt think that Skrill had done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Skrill acted unfairly towards Mrs B 
and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mrs B, a financial institution is generally under no obligation 
to continue offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mrs B is 
unhappy that Skrill closed her account. However, each financial institution has its own 
criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing 
a customer with an account is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to 
take. 
Furthermore, while Mrs B is unhappy that her account was closed without notice, having 
reviewed everything, including Skrills actions and the information provided, Im satisfied that 
Skrill acted in line with the terms and conditions of her account when taking the action it did. 
So Im satisfied that Skrill had sufficient grounds to close Mrs Bs account and as such its 
decision to block and then close it wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that Skrills 
decision will have been very disappointing to Mrs B and I can appreciate why the closure of 
her account will have caused her inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a position 
to be able to tell Skrill it should have continued offering Mrs B an account in circumstances 
where it legitimately decided it no longer wishes to provide her with one.
Finally, Ive seen that Skill has told Mrs B what she needs to do in order for the funds 
remaining in her account to be returned to her. So its up to Mrs B to now provide the 
information necessary in order to be sent the funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Skrill has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mrs B and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs B. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell appreciate why Skrill was entitled to close her account in the way that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman