DRN-4058140
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his let property insurer The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU). He feels it completed poor work at his property and 
delayed his claim for storm damage, causing him financial and non-financial loss.
What happened
Mr Ms property, which is grade 2 listed and situated about 250 miles from his home, was 
damaged in a storm in March 2020. He made a claim and NFU began work to reinstate the 
property. But that did not go to plan, poor work was done and re-work had to be organised. 
NFU acknowledged that in February 2021 and a plan for resolving the poor work and 
reinstating the property was put in place. The plan involved putting the work out to tender. 
On 21 April 2021, with arrangements for the plan still being made, NFU issued a final 
response to Mr M, addressing concerns he had raised about the claim to that date. 
At the end of April 2021 the plan to reinstate the property was progressing  with a 
Conservation Officer having been involved and a scope of work, following a meeting at the 
property in March 2020, having been drawn up. The approved scope was then put to tender 
in around July 2021. The tender completed successfully with a contractor being appointed in 
August and the re-work began in September 2021.
The property was stripped shortly thereafter, with plaster work beginning in October 2021. A 
specialist lime plaster was being used and the contractors were referring to a consultant for 
advice on this aspect. By December 2021 it was apparent that the plaster was not drying as 
expected, and the repair period had to be extended, with the expected completion date for 
the main work being revised to mid-March, with a further six-weeks allowed as a contingency 
and for carpet fitting and the like. Which meant NFU would cover the rent for the property to 
24 April 2022 and Mr M was able to cancel bookings he had taken up to that date.  
Reviews in January and February 2022 though showed that the plaster was still not drying 
as expected. Which meant the completion date for the main work was pushed back still 
further and NFU authorised Mr M to cancel bookings through May 2022. On 18 May 2022, 
NFU issued a final response to Mr M, considering the course of the claim since its previous 
final response in April 2021 and the impact on Mr M. NFU accepted that Mr M had been 
caused upset and inconvenience during this period and said it would pay him £500 
compensation. But it said it couldnt pay him the £72,790 he had asked for  broken down 
between travel costs, loss of reputation, dilapidation to the property, and upset, including his 
health being affected. Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt that NFU should pay Mr M a further £300 compensation. Making the 
total compensation award for this period £800. She wasnt minded to make it pay more.
NFU agreed to the recommendation. Mr M said it was still insufficient and did not take into 
account his financial losses. Mr M also said that the extended claim and increased costs had 
affected his premium. He said contents items removed from the property by NFU had not 
been returned. The complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. 
I felt it should be upheld. That, in the period relevant to this complaint  after NFUs final 
response letter of 21 April 2021 until its final response letter of 18 May 2022  that 
compensation of £800 was fair and reasonable for Mr Ms non-financial loss. But that in 
respect of Mr Ms concerns about his financial losses, NFU should pay Mr Ms fuel costs, 
plus interest. But I wasnt minded to make any other award. Regarding Mr Ms concerns 
about premiums and contents items, I felt he should revert to NFU. So I issued a provisional 
decision, to explain my views to both parties, my findings of which were:
Delays, claim handling and poor work
I think things were managed and progressed quite well during this period. But it has to be 
said that the work was only on-going at this time because of the poor work which NFU had 
undertaken earlier on in the claim. And because of the earlier poor work Mr M was much 
more involved than he otherwise would have been. Through most of this period NFU was 
providing Mr M with weekly updates  and that was a really good way to ensure he was 
updated and to ensure the claim kept progressing. But this only had to happen because of 
the previous poor work. So whilst I dont think there was any poor work by the contractor 
which was completing repairs in this period, the effects and impacts of the previous poor 
work continued for Mr M. 
The repairs were subject to some delays. But I dont think that was through any fault of NFU. 
The delays and amendment to the timescale for repairs seem to have come from the 
specialist lime plaster not curing as expected. But Im aware that lime plaster can be a 
difficult material to work with in terms of drying at least. And I note that the contractors were 
referring to an expert in this respect. I dont think anything could have been done to avoid 
these delays.
Im also mindful that NFU and the contractors kept an eye on what was happening with the 
plaster and what that might mean for the repair period. Which meant that they were able to 
advise in good time to amendments to the repair schedule. And I see that NFU, in line with 
those amendments acted pro-actively regarding the payments it was making to Mr M for lost 
rent. So I think the situation was managed well and the impact on Mr M was limited as far it 
was possible to do so.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience (non-financial loss)
Ive noted above that I think NFU handled things well during this time, such that the impact 
on Mr M was limited. But I also said above that all the effort Mr M went to during this time 
was because of the previous poor work. Im mindful that Mr M was not in the best of health 
at this time either. And I accept that as the prolonged claim continued to progress, the 
effects of dealing with that over a prolonged period would have impacted Mr M. So Mr M was 
dealing with an on-going claim for a year, with all the effort and time that entailed.
Mr M also had to cancel bookings in 2022 when the repair period had to be extended twice. 
This was a natural and unavoidable result of the specialist plaster not drying. But if the 
previous poor work had not occurred, the lime plaster wouldnt still have been drying in the 
early part of 2022. Mr M was given good notice about the extensions to the repair 
programme  but he still had to spend time cancelling bookings. Im also aware that hed had 
to cancel some bookings earlier in the claim too  so I accept that cancelling more at this 
stage was frustrating for him. 
So I think that Mr M did suffer distress and inconvenience during this period on account of 
failures by NFU. Im satisfied that £800 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.     
Travel costsIn October 2021 Mr M, talking about the claim as a whole, said hed visited the property 
14 times. Im aware that seven of those visits occurred before 21 April 2021. Meaning that 
Mr M visited the property seven times between 22 April 2021 and his letter of October 2021. 
I think he likely visited it again in November and around that time NFUs loss adjuster 
provided some reassurance to Mr M that his regular visits werent necessary at this stage  
with work progressing well under the tender contractor  but hed be invited to meetings 
where his input was required. From NFUs file it seems there were two such meetings at the 
property between November 2021 and 18 May 2022. And I dont doubt that Mr M visited 
again towards the end of the main repairs completing. That is 11 reasonably necessary visits 
in total by Mr M during the period I am considering here. 
I understand that Mr M was taking a keen interest in the property. I think that is 
understandable given the previous poor works. And I think it is fair to say that, but for those 
poor works, Mr M would not have had to visit the property at all during the period I am 
considering here. So, in my view, all of these 11 visits were only necessary due to NFUs 
failure. I understand that each visit cost Mr M £90 in fuel. I think NFU should pay Mr M £990, 
£90 each for 11 trips, with interest* added to the total amount from 21 April 2021, the date of 
NFUs previous final response, and applied until settlement is made.      
Loss of reputation
Ive taken into account above that Mr M had to cancel some bookings. And Ive also taken 
into account his time, effort and frustration involved in that. And I understand Mr Ms concern 
about repeat bookings. But I havent seen any evidence which makes me think that these 
cancellations were made in respect of returning clients, or clients which would likely have 
become returning clients but for the cancellations. Im also conscious that Mr M had ample 
time in this period to arrange cancellations and Im mindful that most customers, particularly 
as the country continued to still be affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, had a more flexible 
attitude to cancellations. So I dont intend to make any award in this respect.
Dilapidations
Mr M said that during the extended repair period, the property, in areas not subject to the 
insured work, had deteriorated. He said he would incur a cost to reinstate these areas. In a 
letter dated October 2021, Mr M said hed have to spend £7,000 replacing carpets, and 
£5,000, £1,000, and £1,000 respectively decorating the hall/stairs and landing, kitchen and 
ground floor toilet.
I understand Mr Ms concern in these respects. For example, not all of the hall/stairs and 
landing required decorating under the claim, so Mr M felt the works left the rest looking out of 
place. And I know he was worried, for example, that carpets, not planned to be replaced by 
NFU, wouldnt clean, and leaving them in place to be cleaned would make other 
reinstatement work more complicated. But I bear in mind that a holiday let, of the type and 
standard of Mr Ms, would likely at least require regular maintenance work such as 
decorating. So I think Mr M would always have incurred some cost for upkeep of the 
property. Im also mindful that NFU identified a cost saving during the work of some £17,000. 
This was the cost to wallpaper the property. The property had been papered before but it 
was felt that it shouldnt be reinstated in that way. And NFU, in recognition of the fact that 
Mr M wanted to do some maintenance work and replace some carpets which it didnt think 
needed replacing due to the incident or prolonged repairs, passed this sum on to Mr M. 
I think that was fair and reasonable of it. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me 
to make it pay Mr M anything more for reinstating the property. 
Premium and contents itemsI appreciate that these are issues of concern for Mr M. But they did not form part of his 
complaint which NFU answered in May 2022. Mr M will need to refer to NFU in the first 
instance on these matters.
NFU said it accepted my decision. Mr M said that the compensation award should be 
increased. He said that in respect of the property reinstatement it was professional advice he 
had received that identified the property shouldnt be wallpapered. Whilst that meant NFU 
didnt spend £17,000 for wallpapering, it meant he had to spend £5,000 on a better paint 
finish  and the property does not look as impressive without the wallpaper. And the carpets 
 with that amount of building dust, and even though they were protected  would never 
have cleaned to a satisfactory standard. It cost Mr M £8,000 to replace carpets for which he 
feels a contribution from NFU seems reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr M thinks my compensation award should be increased. And I did note 
provisionally that between April 2021 and May 2022, Mr M should not have still been going 
through any repairs. I also appreciate that this is a period of just over a year. But I do think 
that the repairs and claim during this period were handled reasonably by NFU. I also noted 
provisionally that it acted during this time with a view to limiting the on-going impacts on 
Mr M. It gave specific reassurances after six months, for example. Also, in respect of taking 
and cancelling bookings  whilst I dont doubt Mr M suffered some frustration, NFU was 
handling things better so Mr M was given more notice to deal with this than he had been at 
other times, so I think he was impacted less. 
I appreciate that, from Mr Ms position, my view might seem unfair. But I can assure Mr M 
that I have carefully taken into account what went wrong here and I absolutely acknowledge 
that NFUs poor work, in the period before that which I am assessing in this decision, had far 
reaching impacts on him into this period. I am satisfied though with the award made 
provisionally. I do think £800 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here, as well as 
being in line with our general approach to awards of this nature and other awards made by 
this service in similar situations.
I understand that not being able to wallpaper the property is a cause for concern for Mr M. 
But I dont think that arose due to any failure of NFU. And I dont think it much matters 
whether Mr M identified the issue or NFU. I also understand that Mr M incurred a cost 
because the property wasnt wallpapered. But he received £17,000 from NFU which is what 
it would have cost to do that work. I note Mr M then spent £5,000 to implement a paint finish 
he was happy with. So that still left Mr M with £12,000. I know he spent £7,000 on 
redecoration  but I said hed likely have had to redecorate in the period since the claim 
even if the loss and poor work had not occurred. Mr M previously said his cost for carpeting 
was £7,000, I note he has now clarified that was £8,000. But taking that £8,000 from the 
£12,000 left after applying the paint finish as an alternative to wallpapering, still left Mr M 
£4,000 in credit. In the circumstances I cant fairly and reasonably say that NFU should 
have to pay even a contribution towards the carpets Mr M felt he needed to replace.
 
Putting things right
I require NFU to:Pay Mr M a total of £800 compensation  if it has paid £500 already, it will now only need 
to pay the remaining £300.
Pay Mr M £990 as compensation for fuel costs incurred travelling to the property, plus 
interest* applied from 21 April 2021 until settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require NFU to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to provide the redress set out above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman