DRN-3152272
The complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted them a conditional sale 
agreement they couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2016, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr M was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £675. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £39,808.
Mr M says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included credit worthiness checks and verification 
of Mr Ms income. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr M.
Moneybarn responded to our adjudicators view requesting the information she had relied on 
in issuing her determination. 
Our adjudicator sent Moneybarn the information she had relied on. Moneybarn didnt 
respond further to this information and so this case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr M about his ability to repay. I say this because it received copies of 
Mr Ms bank statements from which it verified his monthly income. The statements also 
included information about Mr Ms expenditure and while I havent seen further reference to 
his living costs at the time I note that Moneybarn did assess certain aspects of Mr Ms 
expenses. Moneybarn also carried out a credit check and while it noted a historic default it 
found no defaults within the previous 36 months. However, just because I think it carried out 
proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive 
thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive looked at copies of the bank statements between September to November 2016, and 
these show Mr Ms monthly income to be around £4,500. The statements provided by 
Moneybarn show that Mr M was making frequent use of short-term high cost lenders which I 
think should have raised concerns that meant further investigation took place. I have looked 
at the copies of the bank statements provided by Mr M in regard to his accounts and these 
show large payments to and from short-term high cost lenders (over £1,500 in months prior 
to the agreement) and monthly payments of over £500 to debt management companies. I 
think this should have shown Moneybarn that Mr M was struggling financially.
Considering Mr Ms credit commitments alongside his other living costs (of around £1,700 for 
costs such as housing, utilities, mobile phone and other general expenses), this would leave 
Mr M with disposable income of less than £800 a month. Given the repayments under the 
agreement were for £675 I do not find that these should have been considered sustainably 
affordable. 
Overall, I think Mr Ms bank statements gave a clear indication that Mr M wasnt in a position 
to afford the repayments towards the new agreement without experiencing difficulty or 
having to borrow further. Moneybarn therefore didnt make a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr M should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £21,944. Anything Mr M has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ms complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr M has made in excess of £21,944, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr M asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman