DRN-2958128
The complaint
This is a complaint that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Ms C. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. Canada Square (trading 
as Egg) sold Ms C the policy at the same time she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms C and her representative has said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
Ms C has said that, when she applied for the card online, the box for PPI was already ticked 
and couldnt be unticked. 
Im conscious that this all happened about 18 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt remember the detail of what happened that long ago. So it might not be fair 
for me to rely fully on what they now remember.  Also, Ive seen screen shots of the online 
process used by Canada Square at the time, and this didnt have a simple yes box: instead 
it had a choice of boxes  yes or no. From what Ive seen of online processes like this, its 
unlikely it would have been designed to prevent a customer ticking no. 
I do know that some companies, at certain times, gave out paper credit card application 
forms, where the box was already printed with a tick. But Ive not seen evidence of this 
happening online  and I would need evidence that this happened specifically in Ms Cs 
application.  
On the evidence I have, I think its likely Canada Square did give Ms C a choice, even if she 
doesnt now remember it. 
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI as being suitable for Ms Cs individual needs  
instead it left it up to Ms C to decide if it suited her.  This means Canada Square didnt have 
to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. 
In its online process, Canada Square gave Ms C some information about the PPIs costs and 
benefits. But it wasnt as full and clear as it should have been. However, I dont think its 
likely full information about costs and benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. 
I say this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem 
less useful. The PPI would have paid out on top of any work sick pay or redundancy pay; 
and it could have made Ms C more financially secure if she lost earnings due to long-term 
sickness or redundancy. It would have put off the time when she would need to fall back on 
the family help she mentioned. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of 
the significant exclusions in the policy. 
Ms C has mentioned that someone else, who applied for a similar Egg card at the same 
time, has had their complaint upheld. There can be lots of different reason why a complaint 
is upheld, sometimes depending on individual circumstances. I dont know anything about 
the facts of that claim, but I can say I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Ms C. 
This means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C. But 
Canada Square will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms C because Canada Square 
got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Ms C about that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Ms C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Canada Square does have to pay back to Ms C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman