DRN-2558674
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy a tax credit was reinvested after hed asked Aberdeen Standard Fund 
Managers Limited (ASI) to close his account.
What happened
In March 2020, ASI wrote to Mr B to advise him a suspension of dealing had been placed on 
an account he held. Mr B contacted ASI believing the letter had been sent in error. He said 
his account had been closed following his request for a full withdrawal in January earlier that 
year.
ASI said a full withdrawal had been made, but Mr Bs account remained open. It explained 
that following the withdrawal, Mr B received a tax credit of £2.46 which had been reinvested 
in the fund. ASI said it couldnt release the remaining balance on the account whilst the 
suspension was in place.
Mr B complained to ASI, unhappy the balance couldnt be released. ASI said a full 
repurchase of his investment had been carried out in line with Mr Bs instructions and as the 
tax credit hadnt been processed at that time, when it was, it was reinvested in accordance 
with the funds prospectus. ASI confirmed Mr Bs money would be released as soon as the 
suspension was lifted.
Mr B didnt agree, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said hed closed his 
account in January 2020 and at the time hadnt been told a tax credit was due to him. As 
hed asked them to close the account, he said the tax credit shouldve been paid to him 
rather than reinvested. Mr B wanted ASI to improve the administration of its account closure 
process and compensate him to the value of the funds tied up due to the suspension.
In November 2020 the suspension on the fund was lifted. ASI wrote to Mr B saying in line 
with his recent withdrawal request a payment of £2.34 would be made to him. 
Mr B remained unhappy as he said hed not made a recent request and that the amount he 
received was less (by 12p) than the tax credit hed originally received.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt think ASI had done anything wrong. She said 
Mr B hadnt told ASI he wanted to close his account and as the account remained open the 
tax credit had been reinvested in line with the type of fund he held. Our investigator was 
satisfied ASI had released the balance on Mr Bs account as soon as it could have done, so 
didnt think it needed to do anything to put things right.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said it was splitting hairs to suggest 
asking to make a full repurchase and to close his account wasnt the same thing. He also 
feels ASI provided poor customer service by not checking what should be done with any 
potential tax credits due.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its also relevant to emphasise that the ombudsman service isnt the industry 
regulator. That means we dont set the processes a business puts in place or enforce 
changes upon them. My role is instead to consider individual disputes and if I dont think the 
business acted appropriately, to decide a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr B says his request to make a full withdrawal of the balance on his account was also an 
instruction to close it. Ive listened to the call and whilst ASIs advisor confirmed with Mr B it 
was a full withdrawal he wanted to make, no discussion took place regarding the closure of 
his account, nor was it suggested that this would happen at any point during the call.
I can understand why Mr B may have thought his account would automatically close, but 
often an account will remain open to facilitate future investments a customer may wish to 
make. Ultimately whilst I think it wouldve been good customer service for ASI to have asked 
Mr B if he wanted to formally close his account, it didnt have to. And Mr B didnt specifically 
ask ASI to do this, so I dont think its done anything wrong by not doing so.
At the time Mr B requested the withdrawal, ASI brought the balance on his account to nil. I 
understand Mr B feels strongly it shouldve been incumbent on ASIs advisor to have asked 
him what shouldve happened with any potential remaining tax credits due. But as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied it hadnt been established Mr B wanted to close his account, so it 
follows I find it reasonable ASIs advisor didnt consider payments potentially due, that 
werent present on the account at the time. As Mr Bs account remained open, the tax credit 
subsequently received was reinvested in line with the terms of the investment as previous 
tax credits had been.
Mr B was unaware he held a balance on his account following the tax credit reinvestment, 
until ASI advised him a suspension of dealings had been placed on the fund he held. This 
meant ASI was unable to release the balance on Mr Bs account to him when he first 
became aware of it. I understand this must have been frustrating, and I acknowledge Mr B 
was initially told the balance could be released, but Im satisfied this wasnt the case so had 
Mr B been given the right information he wouldve been in the same position. So, I dont 
think ASI did anything wrong by not releasing the funds straightaway, and following the 
suspension on the fund being lifted, I can see ASI released the remaining balance to Mr B 
without any delay.
I understand when ASI sold the remaining units held in Mr Bs account, he received 12p less 
than the amount the tax credit had originally been for. But ASI arent in control of the 
performance of the fund, and Im satisfied it released the balance as soon as it could have 
so I dont think ASI did anything wrong.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied ASI acted both fairly and reasonably in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My financial decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Aberdeen Standard Fund 
Managers Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman