DRN-4257489
The complaint
Ms G complains that Cynergy Bank Limited did not increase the interest rate on her 
Individual Savings Account (ISA), despite several Bank of England base rate increases.
What happened
Ms G says that she held a variable interest rate online ISA (OISA) with Cynergy for some 
time. She said the interest rate was reduced on 21 January 2021. Ms G says given that the 
Bank of England base rate has since increased repeatedly since then, she was surprised 
when she checked her account and she found out she was still only receiving 0.76% 
interest. 
Ms G says she contacted Cynergy about this, but they told her they dont automatically 
increase the interest rate on her account, they offered competitive interest rates, and she 
says she was told they dont change the interest rate on the account. Ms G said staff told her 
about a new version of the account with a higher interest rate, but she says she had no idea 
about this new account as Cynergy didnt tell her about it. Ms G made a complaint to 
Cynergy.
Cynergy did not uphold Ms Gs complaint. They said the OISA is a variable rate savings 
account which means from time to time they may adjust the existing underlying interest rate. 
They said this could be a change to increase the interest rate or decrease it in line with their 
terms and conditions. They said all of their interest rates are published on both their website 
and Online Banking platform for both new and existing customers to access, and they 
acknowledged they dont directly update customers when they launch new account issues. 
Ms G brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Gs complaint. She said Cynergy recognises there may 
be instances where their customers need to apply for new issues to get their latest offering. 
But for existing customers, this process can often be completed in a few clicks with their fast 
track apply option. She said Cynergy clearly publicises their interest rates on their website. 
Ms G asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Ms Gs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. It simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
Id like to explain to Ms G that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what 
commercial decisions Cynergy should make, such as what type of account should earn what 
interest rate, and regardless of any Bank of England base rate changes (or what other 
competitors interest rates are), or if they should write to a customer if other accounts offer 
higher interest rates. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, 
who have the power to instruct Cynergy to make changes to its policies and procedures, if 
necessary. 
Ive considered what Ms G has said about being told Cynergy offers competitive interest 
rates. I accept this is a subjective term. I notice the term they used wasnt the best, or a 
similar word indicating they were offering amongst the highest interest rates, so I cant say 
that Cynergy have misled Ms G by using this term. While she may be able to find better 
interest rates than what she earned on her OISA, there were also lower interest rates on 
other savings accounts in the market at the time.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the OISA that Ms G opened. These confirm that 
the interest rate is variable and that it could increase or decrease. While Im aware Ms G 
says she was told the interest rate wouldnt move on the account, she was aware the 
interest rate was variable as Cynergy had reduced the interest rate on 4 February 2021. 
While Ms G has not got this account anymore, the interest rate wasnt fixed or could only 
move downwards. I say this because the terms and conditions dont show this, and looking 
at the interest rate on the account Cynergy says she opened (OISA Issue 4), I can see 
Cynergy did actually increase the interest rate on this account on 3 August 2023. So this 
does show that the interest rate can increase as well as decrease. 
The terms also show a number of possible factors which go into changing the interest rate 
on the OISA. While one of these reasons is to respond proportionately to a change in the 
Bank of England Base Rate, there are a number of other reasons listed here. So I cant say 
that just because the Bank of England base rate had increased a number of times, that  
Cynergy should have automatically or frequently increased the interest rate on the account, 
when there are many other factors they take into account when deciding the interest rate on 
the account. 
It appears the account was set up on a non-advised basis. So the onus would be on Ms G to 
monitor the account, and if she felt another account would suit her circumstances better, the 
onus would be on her to research this and to open the account if she thought it would suit 
her needs better than the OISA. Cynergy arent required to send her information about 
accounts which offer higher interest. These may also have different product terms, and they 
may not be suitable for her circumstances. While Ms G has described the hassle to move 
from one ISA to another, Cynergy have said they offer a fast track process. And I would not 
be able to hold Cynergy responsible for a third party company process if their application 
process is cumbersome. So it follows I dont require Cynergy to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman