DRN-3847063
The complaint
Ms B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (Shop 
Direct) irresponsibly gave a credit account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 1 June 2011, Ms B applied for a credit account with Shop Direct. Ms B was given a 
£1,000 credit limit. The credit limit was increased many times over the following years and 
was also reduced. 
In 2022, Ms B complained to Shop Direct to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Shop Direct ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before providing her with credit. 
Shop Direct upheld the complaint saying they should not have increased the credit limit 
from £4,800 to £5,000 on 27 July 2013. Our adjudicator thought this was a fair outcome, 
as they had not seen sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint from earlier in the life of 
the account. Ms B didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
whether Ms B is entitled to more redress than Shop Direct has already made on her 
account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Bs complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. Its 
possible that Shop Direct failed to make adequate checks before providing Ms B with credit. 
But even if thats true, I have seen insufficient evidence to think better enquiries would have 
caused Shop Direct to think the loans were unaffordable. 
It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability because Ms B has not been able 
to provide bank statements from the whole time in question. And I have not had sight of 
any credit information from the times. So, I have no way of knowing the volume of any 
credit Ms B may have had or how Ms B was managing any existing credit she had at the 
time the lending decisions were made. 
I have considered the monthly repayments in relation to the income Ms B told us she had 
at the time and this is insufficient to make the credit limits automatically unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Ms B to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Shop Direct to think that the credit it 
provided Ms B was unreasonable. 
I know that Ms B will be disappointed with my decision and I was sorry to read about the 
difficulties of her personal situation. But I want Ms B to know that I considered all the 
submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold this complaint or ask Shop Direct to make an award greater than the one they 
have already made. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Shop Direct need make no 
further redress than that which they have already made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman