DRN-3105040
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) failed to refund a 
transaction that he didnt recognise and wrongly reported the situation to the credit reference 
agencies resulting in a worsened credit rating.
What happened
Mr C had been travelling abroad and noticed a large payment on his Amex charge card that 
was made on 18 June 2019 and was made in a country Ill refer to as W. Mr C said that he 
was in a different country at the time  referred to as S, so it couldnt have been him that 
made the transaction. Amex looked into the circumstances and told Mr C that the payment 
was made with his genuine card and his Personal Identification Number (PIN) was used to 
confirm the transaction.
Mr C told Amex that he still had his card with him and that he hadnt given it to anyone and 
no one else knew the PIN number. Mr C told Amex that he thought he was the victim of an 
online hack and his email system was also compromised. Amex couldnt find any evidence 
that their systems had been breached.
Mr C provided his travel itinerary to Amex and explained that he was in S at the time, but he 
had been in W where the transaction had occurred, although hed left before it was made. Mr 
C didnt repay the disputed transaction and after three months Amex defaulted the account, 
told Mr C that it was to be closed and referred the debt to a collection agency. Amex 
reported the unpaid debt to the credit reporting agencies.
Mr C complained to Amex who maintained their position about the disputed transaction, 
believing Mr C responsible for it and declined to refund him or amend the credit report. Mr C 
was unhappy with how Amex had dealt with his situation and brought his complaint to our 
service for an independent review.
Further evidence of Mr Cs travels were provided to our investigator who looked into the 
complaint. They thought that the evidence showed Mr C was in the same country (W) as the 
disputed transaction when it was made. He couldnt find a plausible reason how Mr Cs card 
could have been used in a different country to the one that Mr C said he was in without him 
being aware of it. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C provided further information about his travels, including credit card statements and 
copies of his passport. Our investigator thought that the dates on the passport (10 June 
2019) showed Mr C was in W at the time of the disputed transaction, but Mr C said the date 
he was referring to was misread and actually read 19 June 2019. Mr C said the passport 
stamp showed he was outside the country when the transaction was made and that charges 
on a different credit card showed he was in S at the time. Our investigator accepted that Mr 
Cs other credit card was used in S around the time of the disputed transaction but didnt 
change his outcome.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his 
complaint. Its now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Amex can hold Mr C liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
Amex have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to make the 
transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were 
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Amex and Mr C agreed to use the card for transactions. 
For example, when using the card and PIN together, Amex agree to accept that this is a 
legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another approved user and make 
the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the genuine card and the 
correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed transactions were 
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Amex to hold Mr C 
responsible, for example if the card was used without his permission.
Mr C has speculated that his card might have been cloned. Although its possible to clone 
the magnetic strip on a card and produce a replica, theres no evidence to suggest thats 
possible with the chip. So, given that Amex has been able to show that the chip was read, 
Im persuaded that these transactions were carried out with Mr Cs genuine card.
Mr C sent evidence in of his travels, explaining that he wasnt in W at the time of the 
transaction, so it couldnt have been him that was responsible. Because Ive made a finding 
that the genuine card and PIN were used, the location of Mr C at the time of the transaction 
doesnt necessarily mean he wasnt responsible for it. If, for example, he allowed someone 
else to use his card, then he would still be responsible for the transaction. Here, Mr C has 
said that he hadnt allowed anyone else to use his card and he still had it in his possession. 
Additionally, he hadnt revealed his PIN number to anyone else.
So, its difficult to imagine a plausible scenario where Mr C wasnt involved in the 
transaction. I think its unlikely that someone managed to obtain his card, use it to make the 
disputed transaction and travel to a different country to replace it without Mr C realising. Ive 
also taken into account the hack that Mr C reported and I dont think this was responsible 
for this transaction because Amex identified the payment as using the genuine card and PIN, 
rather than any online transaction  which would be more susceptible to online manipulation.
Mr C has argued that he wasnt in the country because of the passport stamps and credit 
card charges. Ive examined the passport stamps and whilst Mr C had left W and travelled to 
S, the stamps show an exit from S, on 9 June 2019 and an entry into W, on 10 June 2019. 
Mr C has argued that this date says 19 June  but having looked at the stamp  which isnt 
the clearest  and the exit from S, it makes more sense that the date is 10 June rather than 
19 June. 
Ive also examined the additional statements provided by Mr C and they show charges 
against the card made in S around the time of the disputed transaction, showing on the face 
of it, that Mr C was in S at the time. But, looking at the statements and assuming Mr Cs interpretation of the passport stamp says 19 June  there are charges on the credit card in S 
after 19 June whilst Mr C was in W.
Its not clear if the charges were made in person or automated due to other agreements. But, 
it appears that either someone else had access to Mr Cs card or the charges were made as 
a result of an automated process and dont necessarily point to Mr C being in that location 
when the charges were made. 
Having looked at the evidence, the date of entry into W appears to be 10 June, rather than 
19 June and whilst I acknowledge that transactions were made in S, they dont demonstrate 
that Mr W was in S at the time of the disputed transaction.
Overall, I dont think an unauthorised third party was involved and that it was more likely than 
not that Mr C was responsible for making it. I realise thatll be a difficult message for Mr C  
but its what the evidence leads me to conclude when looking at all the circumstances 
objectively here.
Because no further payments were made against the transaction, Amex issued letters to Mr 
C, reminding him that payment was due. After three months they started to close the 
account, eventually defaulting it and reported the outstanding debt to the credit reference 
agencies. Mr C complained about the reporting, but businesses such as Amex are obligated 
to accurately report the conduct of account holders, to the credit reference agencies. In this 
case, because Mr C didnt make any payments against his outstanding debt, Amex reported 
the situation and in the circumstances acted fairly when doing so. I wont be asking them to 
amend any credit reference agency report. 
Taking everything into account, and whilst Im sure Mr C will disagree with me, the evidence 
leads me to the conclusion that Mr C was more than likely responsible for the disputed 
transaction and its reasonable for Amex to hold him liable for it and it follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman