DRN-1623402
The complaint
R, a micro enterprise (represented by Mr K) say Xbridge Limited sold it a business 
protection policy it couldn't have claimed on.
What happened
In December 2013 Mr K (on behalf of R) got in touch with Xbridge to discuss business
protection insurance and quotes he'd obtained for this. Mr K said he'd chosen the occupation 
private investigator but the main work of his business was process serving 
and debtor tracing. Xbridge confirmed he'd selected the correct trade for that work and 
provided an insurance quote. Mr K took out that policy through Xbridge and cover remained 
in place over subsequent years.
Mr K got back in touch with Xbridge in February 2019 as he'd obtained cheaper quotes
through a comparison website. He wanted to know if Xbridge could offer a more
competitive price. Xbridge discussed the work of his business and wrongly concluded this
included providing legal advice. It passed that inaccurate information to his current insurer
who said it didn't cover this and wouldn't renew his policy. Mr K took out cover elsewhere.
Xbridge subsequently spoke to the insurer and clarified the work R actually did. The insurer
said on that basis any claim would have been considered in line with the policy wording.
Xbridge accepted its customer service should have been better and offered R £50 in
compensation.
Our investigator thought Xbridge had acted poorly when the policy was sold. But he
thought it would have been responsible for considering any claims made under the policy.
So he didn't think it needed to refund the premiums R had paid. He thought the £50
compensation it had offered was fair.
Mr K didn't agree. He said the policy had been mis-sold and thought Xbridge would have
found a way to get out of paying a claim if one had been made. He believed R had paid
premiums for a policy that hadn't been valid from the outset and thought these should be
refunded.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
I understand why Mr K believes his premiums should be refunded to him. And if this policy
had been invalid from the outset I might agree with him. The issue is that I don't think it was.
What Xbridge actually got wrong was to misunderstand what R did when Mr K got in touch 
in 2019. It thought it was providing legal advice. And it was on the basis of that inaccurate
information the insurer declined to offer a renewal.
But R doesn't provide legal advice. As Mr K made clear from the outset it's business is
process serving and debtor tracing. The insurer was happy to provide cover for that. It was
only when it was wrongly told that wasn't the case it declined to do so.
Xbridge says if Mr K hadn't already obtained cover elsewhere the insurer was prepared to
reconsider its position on renewal taking into account the correct information. And the insurer has confirmed it would have considered any claims from the insured period on their
individual merits and in line with normal claims protocols.
So I think R did have cover in place for this period. As a result I don't think it would be fair 
for Xbridge to refund the premiums it paid. I do accept R has been caused some 
inconvenience by what Xbridge got wrong in 2019 but I think the £50 it's already offered 
does enough to put things right here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Xbridge had no comments on the provisional decision and said it remained happy to pay the 
£50 compensation if Mr K was able to confirm account details. 
Mr K was disappointed with the provisional decision. He said he'd been truthful about his 
business dealings and believed Xbridge had given him misleading information about whether 
he had insurance or not. He also said he hadn't received the £50 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr K that there have been customer service failings by Xbridge here. But for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision I do think he had insurance cover in place. 
And I think the £50 compensation Xbridge has offered does enough to recognise the impact 
of those customer service failings on R. I appreciate Xbridge hasn't yet paid this 
but it's confirmed it will do so if Mr K confirms the account he wants the money paid into. 
My final decision
I've decided not to uphold this complaint because I think Xbridge Limited has already done 
enough to put things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
James Park
Ombudsman