DRN-1491325
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as AXA France IARD) mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs R. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has 
taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000, alongside a store credit account. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. This is because I dont think AXA set out some of 
the important terms of the policy, in particular the restriction on making claims for already 
existing medical conditions. I think this would have mattered to Mrs R  because she had, for 
several years, suffered from a chronic condition. A claim arising from this medical condition 
is unlikely to have been paid by the insurer.
I think, if shed understood the restrictions in the policy, she wouldnt have thought it worth 
the cost. AXA has said Mrs R told it, when recently making her complaint, that she had 
received medication for the condition and she hadnt at that stage had to take time off work. 
But I still think she might have thought it likely shed have to claim at some point. This is 
because the medical condition was the type that was likely to get worse as time went on, 
even if it hadnt at that point caused her to take time off work. 
By not explaining the restriction in the policy clearly, AXA denied Mrs R a fair chance to 
make an informed decision. So my conclusion is that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI:
A) AXA should find out how much Mrs R would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added. 
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.  AXA should then refund 
the difference between what Mrs R owed when she closed her account and what she 
would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs R would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year .
C) If  when AXA works out what Mrs R would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs R paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs R wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
D) AXA should tell Mrs R what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must 
give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs R that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman