DRN-3462710
The complaint
Mr D complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) havent restored his car to 
its pre-accident condition following a claim. He feels they should fix the suspension and 
replace the front bumper. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The key facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Under the terms of Mr Ds motor insurance policy, Acromas were required to cover 
the cost of restoring his car to its pre-accident condition. They werent required to 
cover any damage that wasnt caused by the accident, but they did need to make 
sure any repair work was carried out to a high standard.
As Acromas is an insurer, Id reasonably expect them to rely on the expertise of 
engineers when they handle repair claims. Im satisfied this is what they did here as 
following the accident they arranged for Mr Ds car to be inspected and repaired. 
They also paid for two independent inspections in relation to the suspension issue 
and a further inspection in relation to Mr Ds later concern, that the bumper hadnt 
been repaired correctly. 
Ive reviewed each of the reports completed in relation to the suspension issue. On 
each occasion, the engineer concluded the fault was pre-existing and related to 
corrosion. They also said this conclusion was supported by the MOT that took place 
prior to the accident as it included two advisories in relation to the suspension. Mr D 
said he arranged for repairs to be carried out following the MOT and hes provided a 
letter from a mechanic to support this. However, the letter suggests the work was 
carried out before the date of the MOT. In any event, both engineers who inspected 
Mr Ds car concluded the relevant parts were in a poor condition and subject to 
corrosion. So, I dont think Acromas acted unreasonably by relying on their findings 
and concluding this problem wasnt caused by the accident. 
Ive also reviewed the engineers comments in relation to the front bumper, in this 
instance he said  This vehicle has had a further impact to the front bumper since 
being returned to service. In conclusion I can confirm items 1 and 2 are not justified. 
As the engineer didnt think the issue had been caused by the accident or a poor 
quality repair, Im also satisfied Acromas acted reasonably by declining to cover the 
cost of this repair work.
Mr D has said the same engineer shouldnt have been instructed to issue a report on 
both the suspension and bumper issues. I dont agree as his role was simply to 
assess the car in the condition, he found it. As Mr D raised the bumper issue a few 
months after the initial inspection, this also put him in a good position to assess 
whether it was a new issue. I also dont think the fact the bumper inspection took 
place without Mr D being present reasonably changes things. As based on the 
pictures, its clear the engineer inspected Mr Ds car. I also know, Mr D feels the 
engineers communication skills were poor. It isnt clear what happened here, but I 
dont think this reasonably impacted the engineers ability to reach a fair independent 
assessment.
Mr D feels Acromas havent returned his car to its pre-accident condition, but he also 
hasnt provided any persuasive evidence to support this. The inspections Acromas 
arranged were carried out by experienced independent engineers. So, I see no 
reason for concluding they acted unfairly by relying on their findings. Mr D also hasnt 
provided any alternative independent reports to support his position.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman