DRN-2664336
The complaint
Mr A complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money (MCF) registered a 
default on his credit file without sending him a Notice of Default. He says MCF didnt give 
him an opportunity to repay the balance on his credit card or offer him a repayment plan. Mr 
A wants MCF to remove the default from his credit file and to allow him an opportunity to 
repay the balance.  
What happened
Mr A opened a credit card account with MCF in March 2019 with a limit of £225. MCF sent 
statements and notices of arrears over several months and, having not received any 
payment, they registered a default against the account. 
Mr A complained and said he was unable to respond to MCF sooner as his health had 
significantly deteriorated. He said he intends to clear the account but hes struggling 
financially as he has had to restrict his hours at work due to his disability. Mr A asked MCF 
to consider his request for a repayment plan at £20 per month. MCF responded and said a 
notice of default had been sent to Mr A on 15 October 2019. MCF said Mr A hadnt 
responded to their messages and emails about his account as well as the Notice of Default. 
They said the default had been correctly applied and they wouldnt be asking for the default 
to be removed. MCF explained they had passed Mr As account to their specialist team who 
support customers who are experiencing difficulties.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. He thought MCF hadnt acted unfairly in 
applying a default. Mr A disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr A will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr As signed credit agreement. This sets out the terms and conditions of 
his account and says, under a heading Missed Payments, if Mr A misses a payment then 
MCF may report missed payments to Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Its important 
that financial businesses report accurate factual information about customers to CRAs. 
Guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners Office state that any data reported on 
a credit file must be fair, accurate, complete and up to date. The credit agreement says MCF 
will report missed payments to the CRAs. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MCF to 
report Mr As missed payments to the CRAs. 
The next point Ive considered is whether the information reported was accurate. MCF sent a 
Notice of Default by post on 15 October 2019. The notice says Mr A has breached the credit 
agreement by failing to make a payment which has led to his account being in arrears. The 
notice says a payment is required before November 2019 to remedy the breach. Mr As 
credit card statements leading up to this, from May through to October show he is over his 
credit limit. And, they show no payments made since June. At the point MCF send the Notice 
of Default, the credit card statements show an amount of £45 is overdue.   
 
There are also notice of arrears sent to Mr A which say hes behind with his credit card 
payments. MCF write to Mr A in November 2019 to say they intend to terminate his credit 
card agreement. They say this will take effect in two months. They say the reason for this is 
Mr A breaching the terms and conditions of the credit agreement. They ask Mr A to call their 
collections team if he wants to avoid this. 
Taking this all into account, I cant say MCF have acted unreasonably. The statements and 
notice of arrears sent to Mr A, and leading up to the Notice of Default, show hes missed a 
number of payments. This led to an amount of £45 becoming overdue. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for MCF to then issue a Notice of Default and, even at this point, there was an 
opportunity for Mr A to make payment and avoid any further action. I cant see any payment 
was made so I cant say MCF have made an error in reporting the default to the CRAs. I do 
understand Mr As frustrations here and I also note his concerns about any impact this might 
have on his credit score. But, I cant ask MCF to put things right if theres no evidence of an 
error on their part. 
I can see Mr A has doubts about whether the Notice of Default was sent by post. Ive 
considered this point carefully, and from the evidence Ive seen, and on the balance of 
probabilities, I think its more likely than not that it was sent by post. I say this for two 
reasons. Firstly, MCF have provided system notes which show a record for 15 October 2019 
which says a Notice of Default has been sent. Secondly, Ive seen the letter and it does 
contain a postal address so I believe it was sent by post. I understand Mr A says he didnt 
receive the letter by post but the address on the letter matches the address Mr A provided to 
MCF. And, it also matches the address Mr A has provided to our service. And, given that its 
addressed correctly, I cant hold MCF responsible for what mightve been an error by the 
postal service.    
I am sorry to hear about Mr As personal circumstances. We expect lenders to treat 
consumers, who are experiencing financial difficulty, sympathetically and positively. I feel 
that has been the case here, I can see the specialist team at MCF agree to Mr As request 
for a repayment plan at £20 per month. They arrange for this to start from March 2020. As 
part of their consideration, they ask Mr A questions about other expenditure and liabilities. I 
cant see Mr A told MCF about any financial difficulty before the Notice of Default is sent, so I 
dont think its reasonable to expect MCF to have offered any support at this point as they 
were unaware of Mr As personal circumstances. Once MCF were informed about this, I 
think they took positive steps to help Mr A.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman