DRN-3970794
The complaint
Mr M complains Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (VM), restricted and then 
closed his account without explanation. 
To put things right, Mr M wants an apology, the account reopened and compensation for the 
distress caused. 
What happened
Mr M opened an account with VM in early June 2022. Around the 11 July 2022, following an 
internal review, VM restricted Mr Ms account. VM then decided to close Mr Ms account and 
gave him seven days notice. 
Unhappy with VMs actions Mr M complained. VM didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and said it 
had closed the account in line with the terms of the account. Mr M referred his complaint to 
this service. 
In early August 2022, VM closed Mr Ms account and sent him a cheque for the balance. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. They didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld, in summary they found: 
- Banks are allowed to carry our reviews on its customers accounts and VM had not 
caused any delays with this 
- VM is under no obligation to provide an explanation for why it decided to close the 
account
Mr M did not agree with what our Investigator said. Some of the key points he makes in 
response are: 
- VM can not restrict his account without explanation or asking him for proof of his 
source of funds unless there is a court order in place 
- There was undue delay given VM held his funds for three weeks 
As Mr M didnt agree, his complaint has now been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like VM, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
VM have given me information regards why it decided to restrict Mr Ms account. Having 
considered this, Im satisfied VM acted fairly and in accordance with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. So I dont think VM has done anything wrong here.
VM is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before VM closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which VM and Mr M had to comply with, say it 
could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by VM, Im persuaded it was entitled to close 
the account in the way that it has done. VM had written to Mr M to explain its actions on 
19 July 2022 and in doing so signposted him to the relevant part of its terms and conditions 
that it was exercising this action under  section 15 of its agreement for personal customers.
Mr M argues VM had no right to do this without providing him with an explanation or asking 
him for evidence of his source of funds. I am not aware of any obligation under which VM 
must provide an explanation to Mr M for restricting and then closing the account. Nor can I 
compel it to do so. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information VM has 
provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Mr M says VM should have asked him for source of funds evidence. But from the information 
Ive seen, Im satisfied VM did nothing wrong by deciding to close the account with only 
seven days notice. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken into account this wasnt Mr Ms 
main account and that it had only been opened a month or so beforehand. 
Mr M wants VM to pay him compensation for the distress its actions caused him. I do 
appreciate this matter wouldve caused him some difficulty. But having looked at whats 
happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against 
VM given I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures when it closed Mr Ms 
account. And for that reason, I dont think it needs to send a written apology to Mr M too. 
I appreciate Mr M has asked for specific legislation that VM relied upon to review and close 
the account. The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets regulations which 
banks must comply with  and most of the legislations youre referring to will be covered by 
this. Banks are required to comply with a wide range of law and regulation, including the 
Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) Rulebook, the FCA Handbook and various pieces of 
primary and secondary legislations. Most of these regulatory requirements apply to all UK 
banks and VM is subject to these legal and regulatory requirements.
While these regulations are in place, the specific section which VM would have relied on 
when closing Mr Ms accounts is set out in the Terms and Conditions of his account with it  
rather than a set piece of legislation. Part of the legislations will be ensuring banks comply 
with the Terms and Conditions of their account, especially when monitoring ongoing 
business relationships. The specific terms theyve relied on are under section 15. Its not in our remit to review banks processes  we can only check that theyve followed their 
processes correctly and acted fairly. In the circumstances of your complaint, as explained 
above, I think it has.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman