DRN-4011767
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by a business now part of Mercer Limited to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
arrangement to provide an immediate cash lump sum and a regular income through the 
purchase of an annuity. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr H approached Mercer in 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr H sought 
advice on his options because he was offered an enhanced transfer value by his schemes 
trustees. The scheme was willing to pay for the advice if Mr H used Mercer as the advising 
firm.
Mr H completed a fact-find for Mercer to gather information about his circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things, this recorded that Mr H was 55; he was divorced; he 
wasnt working and was in receipt of jobseekers allowance; he jointly owned a property 
which had an outstanding interest only mortgage of around £140,000; he had a credit card 
debt of around £10,000; and his objectives were to pay off debt, pay some university costs 
for his son and to provide a savings buffer. Mercer used this information as the basis of its 
telephone meeting with Mr H and its subsequent advice. Mercer also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it initially deemed to be moderate low but after 
discussion Mr H was classified as a no risk investor.
On 14 April 2016 Mercer advised Mr H to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension arrangement, take the maximum 25% tax-free cash lump sum and purchase a level 
annuity with value protection to provide an annual income of around £15,500. In summary 
the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mr H needed a cash lump sum to meet his objectives and the amount provided by his 
DB scheme was lower.
Mr H needed an immediate income because he had no regular income and the DB 
scheme income was less than that available from a personal pension arrangement.
Mr H wasnt prepared to accept any investment risk and preferred a guaranteed 
income for life.
Mr H didnt need a spouses income because he was divorced and he preferred lump 
sum death benefits.
Mr H accepted Mercers recommendation and the amount of around £470,000 was duly 
transferred  Mr H received around £117,000 tax-free cash and the remainder was used to 
purchase the level annuity.
In 2022 Mr H complained to Mercer about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr H said that 
he felt hed suffered a loss of some or all of the benefits and entitlements he was afforded by 
the DB scheme and had suffered distress and inconvenience.
Mercer didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In summary It said that it had listened to the phone 
calls between Mr H and its adviser and reviewed the paperwork from the time. Having done 
so it said the advice Mr H received was suitable. It said the adviser fully explained all of the 
options available to Mr H and it was clear from the calls that Mr H understood the 
implications of transferring his pension to buy an annuity. It said that despite this, it 
considered Mr Hs complaint was out of time because hed complained more than six years 
since the event complained of and more than three years when he was aware, or ought to 
have been aware, that he had cause for complaint.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt think it had been brought 
too late and Mercer agreed. The investigator then considered the matter and didnt uphold 
the complaint. In summary they said the advice was suitable. They said by transferring Mr H 
received a higher cash lump sum and a higher income than his DB scheme would provide 
and Mercers analysis showed that he was better off overall buying the annuity than taking 
early retirement from his scheme. They said because Mr H was divorced, they didnt think 
losing the spouses pension provided by the scheme disadvantaged him. They said Mr H 
was unemployed and he had debts he wanted to repay. And while they said Mr H didnt 
need to repay his debts at this time, he indicated that he was planning to access his tax-free 
cash regardless to meet his objectives. So given the amount on offer was greater than the 
DB scheme provided, they said they felt Mr H wouldve insisted on transferring if Mercers 
advice had been not to go ahead with the transfer. 
Mr H disagreed. In summary he said that both Mercer and the investigator had placed too 
much emphasis on his outstanding debt to justify that the transfer was suitable based on a 
higher cash lump sum. He said his debts were affordable and there wasnt a pressing need 
to repay them such that he needed the larger lump sum payment. He said that he indicated 
to Mercer in the fact-find that his desire was for an income that increased with inflation. He 
said that because the recommendation was for a level annuity Mercer failed to consider his 
key objective.
Mr H clarified that the windfall referred to in the fact-find was an inheritance that would be 
paid at some point in the future. He said that he disagreed that he had no other assets or 
source of income he could use to meet his objective. He says he couldve obtained full-time 
employment if required and he had over £100,000 of equity in his marital home. He said this 
should be taken into account when assessing the overall suitability of the advice.
Mr H said that he disputed he wouldve gone ahead with the transfer in any event. He said 
that while he said to Mercer that the cash lump sum was life changing, he said most people 
would say the same thing. He said he did not have any intention of transferring prior to 
Mercers involvement and while the larger cash lump sum was an attractive offer, he relied 
upon Mercer to provide him with suitable advice.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Mercer's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to not uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Mercer 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Hs best interests.
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, Mercer produced analysis showing the growth rate or
critical yield required to match Mr Hs DB scheme benefits at age 60  the schemes normal 
retirement age.
But Mercers advice and recommendation in this case was not based on Mr H retiring at
60 and investing his pension monies in the meantime in the belief that Mr H would be better
off by transferring  its advice was based on addressing what it considered was Mr Hs 
immediate need for both income and a cash lump sum at age 55. So while Im satisfied this 
analysis was clearly explained to Mr H, both in the suitability report and in the telephone call 
in which Mercer discussed its advice with Mr H, I dont think its necessary in this case for 
me to consider in detail the financial viability of the transfer. What I need to consider in this 
case are the other reasons which Mercer believes mean the transfer was suitable and in 
Mr Hs best interests. 
Income need and access to enhanced tax-free cash
Mr H indicated in the fact-find he completed that he was considering accessing his pension 
early because, having provided for his family while divorced over the last 15 years, he felt it 
was now time for him. He also wrote that opting for a cash-lump sum would enable him to 
consolidate debt, help out with some university fees and provide an amount in savings for 
security.Mr Hs debt as recorded in the advice paperwork consisted of a credit card balance of 
around £10,000, which he was paying over £200 a month towards. I understand that Mr H 
also had a loan from a family member  but this wasnt recorded at the time, so it appears 
Mercer was unaware of it. Mercer recorded that Mr Hs debt was affordable. It seems Mr Hs 
desire to want to repay his credit card debt was because he considered it an emotional 
burden.
Given this and because Mr H told Mercer that the university costs amounted to only a few 
thousand pounds, I accept that Mr Hs desire for a cash-lump sum could not reasonably be 
considered necessary, or in and of itself a compelling reason to access his tax-free cash 
earlier than his schemes normal retirement age. But importantly in my view, Mr H wasnt 
working at this time. He was unemployed and had been for several months. Mr Hs only 
income was jobseekers allowance. So I think it is clear that Mr H had a somewhat pressing 
need for income, something Mercer also recognised. So given that Mercers 
recommendation enabled Mr H to meet his pressing need for income while at the same time 
also meeting his desired objective for a cash-lump sum, Im not persuaded Mercers 
recommendation was unsuitable.
Mr H was not prepared to accept any degree of investment risk with his pension  he 
indicated he preferred the certainty of a guaranteed income for life. So in my view, it was 
appropriate that Mercer recommended a guaranteed product in the form of an annuity to 
provide Mr H with an income. The income secured by the annuity was just over £15,500 a 
year. And crucially this was higher than the income Mr Hs DB scheme would provide if he 
took immediate retirement - an amount of just over £11,900 a year. The amount of tax-free 
cash Mr H received was also higher  he received around £117,000 whereas the DB 
scheme wouldve provided a little over £79,500. So while Mr H did not necessarily need 
access to the higher amount of tax-free cash as he has argued  his DB scheme wouldve 
met his needs in this regard  by transferring Mr H crucially secured a substantially higher 
initial amount of annual income than he wouldve received if he took his DB scheme benefits 
immediately. 
In my view Mr Hs income need was paramount. It strikes me from listening to the phone 
calls between Mr H and Mercer during the advice process that Mr H was keen to access his 
pension benefits to relieve the pressures and personal cost that he said providing for his 
family had caused him. And in my view Mercers recommendation enabled Mr H to achieve 
this. By transferring Mr H had an annual income that met his retirement expenditure as 
recorded on the fact-find, and the tax-free cash lump sum enabled Mr H to repay his debt, 
help with university fees and provide a flexible savings pot that he could use as and when he 
needed to either top up his income or take lump sums from. By taking the maximum tax-free 
cash, this was also a tax-efficient way of Mr H accessing his pension benefits.
 
Im mindful that the annuity Mercer recommended was level meaning that it wouldnt rise 
with inflation. And while Mr H indicated in the advice paperwork that he considered it was 
desirable to receive a pension that increased, I disagree with Mr Hs argument that Mercer 
ignored this and didnt take it into account in giving its advice. 
I say this because Mercer carried out some analysis, which I see no reason to doubt.
And this showed that, taking into account the fact that Mr Hs DB scheme wouldve provided 
him with an escalating benefit (albeit I understand on a small element of his pension) if Mr H 
took immediate early retirement from the DB scheme, the point at which his income wouldve 
caught up with the annuity payments was at age 91 - what Mercer called the cross over age. 
This is greater than Mr Hs life expectancy. Mercers analysis also took into account the cash 
lump sum as well as the income received. And this recorded that Mr H was always going to be better off by transferring to the recommended product rather than taking early retirement 
from the DB scheme. 
Furthermore, Mercer also compared the position if Mr H delayed taking the benefits from his 
DB scheme until his normal retirement age at 60. And while Mr Hs starting income at age 60 
was higher in the DB scheme than the annuity income, taking into account the fact that at 
this point Mr H wouldve received five years worth of annuity payments, coupled with the 
tax-free cash lump sum, Mr H would be no worse off until he reached the age of 90.
In addition, Mr H would receive his state pension at age 67, which would increase with 
inflation. And as I said earlier on, Mr H couldve used the residual of his tax-free cash to 
supplement his income if needed.
Mr H has said that he couldve obtained full-time employment if required. He also says he 
had over £100,000 of equity in his marital home and these things shouldve been taken into 
account when considering the suitability of the advice. I accept that Mr H was healthy and 
was in a position to seek employment. But I dont think this is something Mr H wanted to do 
at this time  but in any event I dont think this means Mercers advice was unsuitable. If 
Mr H did choose to work, this wouldve enabled him to supplement his income further or 
allow him to save any excess income. And as Ive detailed above, Mr H was in a better 
overall financial position by accepting the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme 
at this time.
Im also not persuaded that because Mr H had equity in his marital home that this made the 
recommendation unsuitable. Notwithstanding my point above about Mr H being financially 
better off, I dont think in the circumstances Mr H was in a position to sell his home and 
release funds at this time. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think Mercers advice was suitable in the 
circumstances and transferring out of the DB scheme met Mr Hs overall objectives. 
Death benefits
Mr H was divorced - so, I dont think he had any need for the spouses pension that the DB 
scheme provided or that losing this benefit disadvantaged him. But Mr H was clear that he 
did still want to provide something for his family. And while Mercers advice was rightly in my 
view focused on Mr Hs retirement provision, Mercers did take Mr Hs needs into account 
because it recommended an annuity with value protection. This provided Mr H with the 
ability to pass on whatever remained of his pension after taking into account the income he 
had received to a beneficiary of his choice on his death.
In summary, while I understand Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, for the reasons 
Ive set out above, I think Mercers advice was suitable and that it acted in Mr Hs best 
interests. So I dont think Mr H has lost out.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no award in 
Mr Hs favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman