The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform 
(Platform) and its handling of their application to change their mortgage product. Mr and 
Mrs M wanted a new product and contacted Platform about 2 weeks before the current one 
ended; they were sent documents to sign to get a new one but returned one unsigned and 
undated. Another form had been sent by Platform without showing all of the address and 
needed to be resent. This mean the switch wasnt in place as planned and in September 
2019 the monthly payment was higher than Mr and Mrs M expected.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Usually, it can take more than two weeks to process a switch of a mortgage product
which is why consumers are told about the option earlier than this. Mr and Mrs M
were told the product was ending in a letter sent to them in April 2019; it was Mr and
Mrs Ms choice to make the application when they did. The earliest the new product
couldve been in place was 7 August as thats when Platform had the necessary
signed forms and was ready to do the switch. But matters werent helped by the
incorrect form sent by Platform and meant the switch couldnt proceed on 7 August 
the delay after this date was due to Platforms failure.
In September 2019 when Mr and Mrs M were told the monthly payment due as the
switch hadnt happened yet, due to Platforms error in sending out an incorrect form,
Platform immediately said it would refund the extra interest charged from 7 August
once it had reviewed to check that it was at fault. Mr M was warned that if they
cancelled the direct debit, theyd go into arrears. Mr and Mrs M chose to take this
step. But lenders are required to tell consumers when theyre in arrears, which was
why the calls followed.
Platform refunded the extra interest paid from 7 August 2019 and arrears interest,
and asked the credit reference agencies to remove from Mr and Mrs Ms credit
records the arrears reported between August and October 2019. This was despite
some arrears remaining (though they were paid in full in December 2019) and the
contractual duty on Mr and Mrs M to pay each monthly payment in full. This is fair
and reasonable. Mr and Mrs M havent provided evidence that theyve suffered other
financial loss, whether or not due to reports made to the credit reference agencies.
Mr M has sent evidence about negative information on his credit reports. But
Platform has shown that it did instruct the credit reference agencies to remove the
information reported between August and October 2019. I note that Mr and Mrs M
didnt clear the arrears until December, but that wasnt the fault of Platform. Mr M
DRN-1759040said he wasnt willing to clear the arrears until his complaint was resolved to his 
satisfaction. Its correct that there were arrears after October and lenders are 
required to accurately state the position of the account in reports to the agencies. 
From the information provided by Mr and Mrs M, its the failure to clear the arrears 
until December 2019 that has led to the negative information still present on their 
credit records. As its correct, Im not going ask to Platform to remove it.
That leaves the issue of compensation for trouble and upset. Mr and Mrs M were
offered £100 by Platform but felt that it wasnt enough to reflect the stress caused
and being chased for the arrears. But the calls had to be made to inform Mr and Mrs
M of the arrears and to try to deal with the debt, which occurred because they
cancelled the direct debit. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Platform to
make the calls, given the duty imposed on lenders in such circumstances. Mr and
Mrs M have said they took time off work to rearrange their finances, but they didnt
pay the direct debit in September to Platform so it isnt clear why such a step was
necessary. Taking all the evidence into account, as well as the circumstances, I think
£100 compensation for the delay in completing the switch due to Platform sending an
incorrect form is fair and reasonable.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about The Co-operative Bank Plc 
trading as Platform. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman