DRN-2475236
The complaint
Mr K and Miss W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused a claim on their wedding 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr K and Miss W had booked their wedding but were then informed that the venue for their 
reception would be closing down as its parent organisation wanted to repurpose the building, 
so they wouldnt be able to hold their reception there.
The venue refunded their deposit of £500 and paid some compensation. They were able to 
book another venue but they had additional expenses of £777. They made a claim on the 
policy in July 2019 and returned the claim form on 7 August, but didnt hear anything back so 
they chased on 18 October. After again receiving no reply, they called in November, when 
they were told their claim form had been received but the claim hadnt been looked at yet.
On 19 November 2019 they were told the claim would not be paid. Great Lakes said they 
were only covered if the venue was closed by a relevant authority, which meant a national 
or local government body. They complained but Great Lakes did not change its decision, so 
they brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said the term relevant 
authority wasnt defined in the policy, it wasnt clear what this meant, and as the venue had 
been closed by its parent company, that was a similar situation. So she thought it wasnt fair 
to reject the claim. She asked Great Lakes to pay the claim, together with interest at 8%, and 
compensation of £75 to reflect the distress caused by its delays in dealing with the matter.
Great Lakes didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in December 2020. In the provisional 
decision I said the decision to decline the claim was fair, but there had been some delay and 
compensation should be paid for the distress and inconvenience cause by this. My reasons 
for this were as follows:
The policy provides cover for cancellation or rearrangement of a wedding in certain 
circumstances. The relevant policy term refers to a number of situations and the one that 
would apply in this case is:
We will pay up to the amount stated for any irrecoverable expenses incurred by you as 
a direct result of the unavoidable cancellation or curtailment of the wedding or wedding 
reception as a result of:
the booked venue for the wedding or wedding reception being unable to hold your 
wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease, damage to the 
venue, murder or suicide at the premises or closure of the venue by the relevant 
authority.
The policy doesnt define what relevant authority means. Great Lakes says although the 
policy doesnt define this, its clear what the intent is and the parent organisation cannot be 
considered a relevant public authority. It also says the parent organisation didnt close the 
venue but repurposed it.
Ive considered these points carefully. Where a term isnt defined in the policy documents I 
need to consider its ordinary meaning. In my judgment, the term relevant authority would 
ordinarily refer to a public body or agency which (in this context) has authority to require a 
venue to take certain action. This might include, for example, a government agency or a 
local authority. So closure of the venue by the relevant authority would relate to a situation 
where that public body has taken action which requires  or at the very least, leads to  the 
venue having to close. I dont think it would cover a situation where the owner of the venue 
chooses to close down. Great Lakes says thats what happened here and the parent 
organisation cant be considered a public authority.
The hotel itself was owned by a limited company. That company was in turn owned by a 
public body operating under a royal charter. If that body had decided that, in order to carry 
out its functions it needed to direct the company to close the hotel, its arguable that might 
amount to a venue being closed by a relevant authority. As I understand it though, what 
happened here was that the company that owned the hotel recommended closing the hotel, 
so that it could be refurbished and turned into a different type of building to be used for a 
different purpose. Although that recommendation was approved by the public body, it seems 
to have been a commercial decision rather than a situation where the venue was forced to 
close by an authority.
The policy provides cover where the venue is unable to hold the reception. In my judgment, 
that would apply where something happens thats out of the venues control. This is 
consistent with the rest of the clause, which refers to situations such as an outbreak of 
disease. And the policy also provides separate cover for failure of suppliers, limited to the 
bankruptcy or liquidation of the supplier. Again, it doesnt apply where a supplier decides it 
no longer wants to offer particular services.
This isnt a situation where the venue was unable to hold the reception due to outside 
circumstances; there was a decision not to continue hosting weddings. On this basis I dont 
think it would be fair to say this term applies. So in my view Great Lakes decision to decline 
the claim was reasonable.
The insurance documents say cover is provided where a wedding is cancelled due to 
unforeseen circumstances. Mr K and Miss W might argue these were unforeseen 
circumstances. But its made clear they need to check the policy terms for details of when 
they can and cant claim. And I think the policy terms are clear that cover isnt available in 
the circumstances of their case, for the reasons Ive set out above.
Having said that, there was some delay dealing with the claim  Mr K and Miss W first 
contacted Great Lakes in July 2019 and submitted their claim form in August, but they didnt 
receive a decision until November and that was only after they had chased a number of 
times  and were told after four months their claim hadnt even been looked at. This would 
have been very frustrating. Bearing in mind that having to rearrange their wedding would 
have been upsetting and caused them some inconvenience in any event, this no doubt 
added to that.
So I agree it would be fair to pay some compensation to acknowledge this. Taking into 
account the timescales involved and the distress this would have caused, I think a payment 
of £200 would be fair.Replies to the provisional decision
Both parties replied to say they accepted the provisional decision and had no further 
comments to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have set out above the reasons for my view that the complaint should be upheld in part. 
Neither party has disagreed with my provisional decision or provided any further comments. 
In these circumstances theres no reason for me to change my conclusions. And so it 
remains my view that Great Lakes decision was in line with the policy terms and was fair, 
but it delayed making that decision and should pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by that delay.
Putting things right
To put things right, Great Lakes needs to pay compensation of £200 to Mr K and Miss W for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to them.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Great Lakes
Insurance SE to pay the compensation to Mr K and Miss W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman