DRN-3917864
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) gave him 
incorrect information that led to a Pension Sharing Order providing an unfair transfer of 
assets to his ex-wife.
What happened
Mr M holds pension savings with Prudential. In January 2021 a degree absolute was granted 
ending the marriage of Mr M and his wife. As part of the financial settlement of that divorce 
Mr M agreed to the transfer of some of his pension savings to his ex-wife. The value of that 
transfer was set out in a Pension Sharing Annex, that was dated 22 September 2020. 
But the Annex incorrectly identified Mr Ms financial advisor as the administrator of his 
pension savings, rather than Prudential. And Prudential says the Pension Sharing Order 
(although I have not seen a copy) set out the amount to be transferred in cash terms (at 
£315,000) rather than the percentage terms as required by legislation. So, in May 2021, it 
told Mr M that it was unable to implement the instruction and that he would need to return to 
Court for it to be clarified. I understand that process was arranged by Mr Ms ex-wife, and 
Mr M was not party to the revisions to the Order.
In July 2021 Mr M had some correspondence with Prudential. He told the firm that he didnt 
agree with the changes that had been made to the Pension Sharing Order and asked the 
firm to delay its implementation whilst he sought additional instructions from the Court. In 
September 2021 Prudential wrote to Mr M. In the email, that I will discuss in more detail later 
in this decision, Prudential told Mr M how it would calculate the amount it would transfer to 
his ex-wife. And it set out the dates on which the calculation would be made. It asked Mr M 
to provide an updated Pension Sharing Order, showing the amount to be transferred as a 
percentage, before it could proceed.
A new Pension Sharing Annex was issued by the Court dated 13 October 2021. That Annex 
confirmed that the transfer to Mr Ms ex-wife should comprise 63.58% of his pension 
savings. Prudential set the effective date for the implementation of the order 28 days later, 
on 10 November 2021. The transfer was completed in early 2022.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Prudential 
had correctly implemented the terms of the Pension Sharing Annex. And he didnt think that 
any of the communications Mr M had been sent by Prudential had been misleading. So he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As our investigator has explained to Mr M, it isnt appropriate for this Service to intervene in 
matters that have already been considered by the Courts. But I am able to look at whether 
Prudential has correctly implemented the instructions the Court provided. And I can look at 
whether any of the information Prudential provided to Mr M was incorrect, or misleading. 
Those are the issues that I will consider in this decision.
In my introduction I have explained a basic timeline of the Pension Sharing Annexes that 
was granted as part of Mr Ms divorce proceedings. In summary I think the Courts acted on 
three occasions. The original Annex was granted on 22 September 2020. It appears that 
Annex was varied, to correct the pension scheme administrator, on 1 July 2021. And a 
further alteration to the Annex, to change the percentage being shared, was made on 
13 October 2021.
The Annex that Prudential used when calculating the value of Mr Ms pension savings that 
should be transferred was dated 13 October 2021. But I think it important to note that that 
document, containing the amended transfer percentage, was originally dated as at the date 
of the original Annex (22 September 2020). The date was altered by the Court by the 
addition of a stamped date, and authorising Court stamp. It therefore seems to me that the 
Court gave a clear direction that a new effective date should apply. So I cannot reasonably 
say that Prudential was incorrect when it concluded that the intention of the Court was for 
the Annex to be dated in October 2021.
Mr M had some correspondence with Prudential in September 2021. In that email Prudential 
explained that the valuation date for the Pension Sharing Order would be determined as the 
later of the date of the Decree Absolute or 28 days after the date of the Pension Sharing 
Annex. It told Mr M that it considered the date of the Annex to be 22 September 2020, and 
the Decree Absolute to be 20 February 2021 (although that date was incorrect and later 
amended by Mr M to be 20 January 2021). So it said, in line with the regulations, and in the 
absence of any appeal by Mr M, it would use the date of the Decree Absolute as the 
effective date for the order.
I think it is important that, at the time that email was sent, the revisions to the Annex that 
took place on 13 October hadnt been considered by the Courts. Mr M has said that 
Prudential should instead have referred to the amended Annex dated 1 July 2021. But I dont 
agree. Mr M had already told Prudential that it should disregard that Annex since it had been 
issued without his involvement, and was being appealed. So I dont think it unreasonable, 
when the email was sent in early September 2021, for Prudential to have concluded at that 
time that the relevant Annex for its consideration was dated September 2020.I am satisfied that the Annex dated 13 October 2021 replaced any that had gone before. So, 
given that date was later than the date the Decree Absolute was granted, I think it followed 
from Prudentials email that the effective date would change. And following the advice 
provided in the email Prudential correctly calculated the effective date as being 28 days 
later, on 10 November 2021.
It seems clear, from the initial Court documents I have seen and Mr Ms testimony, that his 
intention was for the pension share to be fixed at around £315,000. And that was Mr Ms 
intent when he asked the Court to amend the share percentage. But I think the explanatory 
notes on the Pension Sharing Annex, and the information that Prudential had provided, were 
clear that the actual value of the transfer would vary depending on changes to the value of 
Mr Ms pension savings.
So, like our investigator, I dont think that Prudential has done anything wrong. It seems to 
me that it was entirely reasonable for Prudential to conclude that the relevant Annex it 
should use when determining the effective date was issued on 13 October 2021. And I dont 
think the email it sent to Mr M on 7 September 2021 was misleading. That email told him that 
it would only use the date of the Decree Absolute, in the absence of any appeal by Mr M. 
And the email reminded him that the transfer value would be applied to an updated valuation 
once the Court had agreed the Pension Sharing Order.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision, and this situation, will be for Mr M. But it is not 
reasonable to expect me, or Prudential, to second guess the intentions of the Court. Should 
Mr M feel that Prudentials application of the Pension Sharing Order has resulted in an unfair 
outcome that would be a matter for him to raise with the Court where he might seek a further 
variation to the terms of the Pension Sharing Order. I think that Prudentials actions here 
were reasonably in line with the instructions it had been given under the terms of the 
Pension Sharing Order, and Annex.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman