DRN-4033979
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) and the 
decision to settle their insurance claim on a without prejudice 50/50 liability basis.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr K held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by LV. Unfortunately, in March 
2021, their car was involved in a road traffic accident. So, they notified LV of this. But due to 
the minimal damage present on their car, they didnt make a claim themselves for any injury 
or repairs.
But the third-party driver, who Ill refer to as T did make a claim for repairs to their car. And 
T provided a version of events that suggested Mrs K and Mr K were at fault for the accident. 
So, Ts insurer contacted LV to recoup the costs of the repairs. I think its important to note 
that both Mrs K and Mr K and T held insurance policies underwritten by LV, although they 
were differing products administered by different departments within LV.
LV made Mrs K and Mr K aware of the claim made by Ts insurer. And due to the accident 
circumstances and there being no independent witnesses or dashcam footage, they put 
forward the idea of settling the claim on a 50/50 basis.
Mrs K and Mr K strongly opposed this idea, providing extensive comments explaining why 
they felt the accident was the fault of T and that the damage repaired couldnt have been 
caused by their car. LV took these comments on board and entered into lengthy discussions 
with Ts insurer regarding how the claim should be settled. As both parties held an insurance 
policy underwritten by LV, LV felt issuing legal proceedings or entering arbitration werent 
feasible options. So, LV instructed an independent solicitor, who Ill refer to as S, to 
consider the liability aspect and provide their comments, acting as an alternative to 
arbitration.
S considered all of the evidence available from both LV and Ts insurer. And they advised 
without independent witness evidence or dashcam footage, they didnt think LV would be 
able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accident was the fault of T. So, they advised 
that, if the claim was considered in a court, it was most likely the claim would be settled on a 
50/50 basis. So, this is the action they recommended LV to take. 
LV followed S advice and settled the claim on a 50/50 basis. But Mrs K and Mr K were 
unhappy about this, so they raised a complaint. 
Mrs K and Mr K didnt think LVs decision to settle the claim on this basis was a fair one. 
They reiterated their belief the accident was the fault of T, and that the damage repaired 
couldnt have been caused by the accident considering the minimal damage present on their 
car. They were unhappy with the impact this would have on their future premiums, and their 
no claim discount. So, they wanted LV to reconsider their position and directly address their 
comments regarding the damage to their car compared to the damage repaired on Ts.
LV responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had acted fairly, and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs K and Mr K held, when settling the 
claim on a 50/50 basis. So, while they understood Mrs K and Mr Ks objections to this, they 
didnt think they had done anything wrong. So, LV didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mrs K and Mr K remained unhappy with this response, so they referred their complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the terms of the 
policy made it clear LV had the ability to settle the claim how they saw fit. And in this 
situation, our investigator thought LV had done all they could to explore the liability dispute 
before deciding to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis. So, our investigator didnt think LV 
needed to do anything more.
Mrs K and Mr K didnt agree. They maintained their belief that the damage repaired under 
Ts insurance claim couldnt have been caused by the accident, or their car. And they didnt 
think LV, or our investigator, had commented on this. They also felt the claim had been 
impacted by the fact LV were underwriters for both themselves and the third-party. And they 
questioned the impartiality of the solicitors who provided their opinion on the liability dispute 
itself. As Mrs K and Mr K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs K and Mr K. I recognise 
they hold strong views regarding the accident circumstance, who was at fault and so, who 
should be held liable. And I want to make it clear to Mrs K and Mr K that my decision isnt 
intended to dispute their testimony. As Mrs K and Mr K feel the accident was caused through 
no fault of their own, and that minimal damage was caused, I can understand why they 
would feel unfairly treated when LV decided to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis, regarding 
the repairs to Ts car.
But for me to say LV should reconsider the claim or do something more than they already 
have such as provide Mrs K and Mr K with further explanations or conclusions, I first need to 
be satisfied LV have done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act 
within the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs K and Mr K held when settling the claim as 
they did. Or, if I think they did act within the policy, that they acted unfairly when doing so. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain its 
not my role, nor the role of our service, to re-underwrite the claim as we dont have the 
expertise to do so. Instead, its my role to consider the actions LV have taken against the 
information available to them at the time, and the policy Mrs K and Mr K held, and decide 
whether I think theyve acted both fairly and reasonably. And I think they have on this 
occasion.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs K and Mr K held. And this explains 
within the claims information section that LV were entitled to have total control to conduct, 
defend or settle any claim. So, I think LV had the authority through the policy to settle the 
claim as they wished, with or without Mrs K and Mr Ks agreement. So, I dont think I can say theyve done anything wrong when ultimately taking the decision to settle the claim on a 
50/50 basis despite Mrs K and Mr Ks disputes and concerns.
But as Ive explained above, as well as considering whether LV acted within the terms and 
conditions of the policy, Ive also thought about whether LV acted fairly when doing so. 
Ive considered Mrs K and Mr Ks testimony and comments at length, including the points 
theyve raised about the damage to their car, the level of impact and why they dont believe 
this couldve caused the damage to Ts car. Ive also looked through the information LV held 
regarding the accident circumstances from both parties points of view, and the conversations 
LV held with Ts insurer.
I think its clear both Mrs K and Mr K and T felt the other party was at fault for the accident 
that occurred. And as there is no independent witnesses, or dashcam footage, the claim was 
essentially Mrs K and Mr Ks word against that of Ts.
Ive seen due to this, LV reached out to S and to an independent engineer to consider the 
same information and provide comments on both the damage, and the potential liability. I 
think it was both fair and reasonable for LV to do this, and I think it shows LV acted in Mrs K 
and Mr Ks best interest by taking their comments on board and ensuring the claim was 
settled in the fairest way possible.
Ive seen the engineer states the damage repaired on Ts car appeared consistent to the 
accident circumstances. And that the repairs undertaken seemed reasonable taking this into 
account. And Ive seen S explained the burden of proof was on LV to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that T had acted negligently. And, due to the lack of independent 
evidence, S felt it was likely any legal proceedings would result in a court ruling the claim be 
settled on a 50/50 basis. I also note LV provided Mrs K and Mr K with the chance to provide 
an engineers report, or to instruct another solicitor, to dispute the guidance given above. To 
this date, I cant see that Mrs K and Mr K have provided LV with additional information to this 
effect.
So, I think the information given to LV by both S and the engineer suggested that the most 
reasonable way to settle the claim would be to settle on a 50/50 basis. And I think LV were 
fair to rely on the opinions S and the engineer provided, as both S and the engineer were the 
qualified experts. Because of this, I dont think I can say LV have acted unfairly and so, I 
dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs K and Mr K were hoping for. And I appreciate Mrs K 
and Mr K feel their premiums have increased due to the claim and they are unhappy that 
their history of making no claims has been impacted. But Ive seen on the schedule of Mrs K 
and Mr Ks policy that there was an endorsement confirming their No Claims Discount was 
protected. So, I think this discount remained in spite of the claim. And while I appreciate why 
Mrs K and Mr K feel their reputation has been tarnished, I dont think this is because of any 
mistake LV made as I think they acted fairly when settling the claim in the way they have. 
And so, I dont think LV hold a responsibility to compensate Mrs K and Mr K for the 
emotional upset this may have caused.
I also note this wont bring an answer to the question Mrs K and Mr K feels unanswered 
regarding the damage to Ts car compared to the minimal damage on their own. But I think 
LV have made several reasonable attempts to explain their reasoning for settling the claim. 
And that this question was directed to the engineer, who provided their own thoughts. So, I 
dont think LV should be expected to continue conversations surrounding this point.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint about Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman