The complaint
Mrs M complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy during a telephone conversation in 2002 in connection 
with a store card.
What happened
Mrs M said the policy was mis-sold because she said there was nothing to show she 
consented to buy the policy or that she was given any option to buy it. She added that she 
suffered from asthma when she bought the policy. She had been diagnosed from the age of 
10 and she used 2 different inhalers regularly. It affected her in that colds and flu would last 
longer and make breathing harder. She confirmed she didnt take time off work for her 
condition.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because Mrs Ms asthma meant she 
would be excluded from applying for sickness cover if her sick leave was caused by the 
asthma.
AXA disagreed with our adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. It 
added the following points:
the illness was most likely manageable with medication;
there was nothing to suggest the severity of the condition or whether Mrs M had to
take any time off work for it;
it is unlikely Mrs M would have needed to claim for her medical condition;
she still would have been able to claim for any other medical condition.
I issued my provisional decision in April 2020 which said I was not going to uphold this 
complaint. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and invited them to 
comment. Both parties were given enough time to consider my provisional decision. I have 
not received any comments or new evidence from either party, so I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
I am going to say this complaint should not be upheld. I know this will be a disappointing 
result for Mrs M, so I'll explain why.
DRN-1957826From the information Ive seen, this PPI policy was sold to Mrs M during a telephone call  
probably shortly after she applied for the card in store. I dont have a copy of the call 
recording or any notes of the call. But it is likely there was a sales process in place at the 
time which presented the policy as optional  and to gain consent for the PPI to be added to 
the card account. I havent seen anything to suggest that this process wasnt followed on this 
occasion  so on balance, I think its more likely that AXA followed its standard procedure. 
And I think it was probably made clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI  and Mrs 
M chose to take it.
I also noted Mrs M was eligible to buy the policy so there are no grounds here to uphold the 
complaint.
The policy wasn't recommended so AXA had to make sure Mrs M received enough 
information which was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
decision.
Its possible the information given to Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong because she told us 
she would get sick pay but had no savings at the time. It also looks like PPI was affordable 
at the time of the sale. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
from off taking out the cover.
AXA should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). And 
it is likely that Mrs M would not have been able to claim for her pre-existing medical 
condition. However, she confirmed her condition was controlled by medication and that she 
didnt have any time off from work due to her condition. So although I accept Mrs M does 
have asthma  I dont think the exclusion in the policy would have affected her as I think it 
unlikely that she would have needed to claim.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission where PPI was sold.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
AXA has said Mrs M wasnt charged any PPI premiums on or after 6 April 2007 so there is 
no commission to be refunded.
Taking everything into account, I am not going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman