DRN-4329533
The complaint
Mr T complains that it wasnt made clear to him by Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) when he 
agreed a flex repayment plan that this may affect his ability to increase his overdraft limit. 
This resulted in him being unable to pay essential bills.
What happened
Mr T held a flex account with Monzo with an overdraft. One of the features of the account 
was the ability to purchase products and pay back in instalments of up to 12 months. 
Mr T by webchat got in contact with Monzo and asked that it restrict his ability to flex 
payments totally until all the amount he owed on flex payment is paid back. Monzo agreed a 
repayment plan with Mr T which would stop him from being able to use the flex feature and 
confirmed once his balance was cleared it would close the flex. 
Monzo confirmed that it would have to report this plan on his credit file as being in an 
arrangement and that it may have a negative effect on his credit score which Mr T 
acknowledged and agreed to. Mr T had also reduced his overdraft limit to £650.
Following this Mr T found he was no longer able to increase his overdraft limit through the 
app and that it had been capped at £650. Mr T complained to Monzo about this as he was 
unable to pay bills and rent. 
Monzo said it didnt cap Mr Ts overdraft limit and explained every time Mr T requests to 
increase his overdraft limit that this is treated as a new application which needs to meet its 
lending criteria to be successful and that Mr T was no longer eligible for an increase. Monzo 
was also unable to offer temporary lending. But Monzo compensated Mr T £100 for the 
service he received.
Mr T was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. He says it wasnt 
made clear that entering a repayment plan regarding his flex account would affect his ability 
to increase his overdraft limit. Monzo says all overdraft increases are subject to application 
and approval so it wouldnt have been able to tell Mr T if putting the repayment plan in place 
would affect his eligibility to increase his overdraft.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ts concerns and reached the conclusion that 
although Monzo provided Mr T with help and support by setting up a repayment plan for his 
flex account in line with what wed expect and compensated Mr T £100 for the delays in 
service received, they didnt think Monzo had gone far enough. 
In particular they didnt think Monzo went far enough in explaining the ramifications the 
repayment plan would have when applying for other lending and failed to ensure Mr T 
understood that when his credit file is changed since he last adjusted his overdraft limit the 
amount that Monzo will approve is subject to change. This resulted with Mr T being left in a 
vulnerable position being short of funds to pay for essential bills. They thought Monzo should 
compensate Mr T a further £150 for the distress this caused 
Monzo disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr T wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And the crux of Mr 
Ts complaint is that Monzo failed to make it clear that entering a repayment plan may affect 
his ability to increase his overdraft limit.
Having considered everything provided, Im in agreement with our adjudicator and their 
recommendations. While it is not disputed that Monzo did make it clear to Mr T that his credit 
file may be negatively impacted by him entering a repayment plan, I cant see that Monzo 
ever explained that this may mean he wouldnt be able to increase his overdraft limit with it.
Monzo says it wasnt able to foresee that future requests for overdraft limit increases would 
be declined, as every application is treated as a new application which needs to meet its 
lending criteria to be successful. That may well be the case, but I think it is reasonably 
foreseeable that entering into a repayment plan that may impact ones credit file negatively, 
would also likely impact their ability to borrow further and that had Mr T understood this he 
might not have agreed to the plan.
Mr T found himself in a vulnerable position being no longer able to increase his overdraft 
limit online as he had done in the past and being unable to pay essential bills. This no doubt 
caused him some distress. And while Monzo isnt obliged to provide Mr T with further credit if 
he doesnt meet its lending criteria, I think compensating Mr T £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by not making it clear that entering a repayment plan may affect 
further lending would be a fair and reasonable way to settle this complaint. So overall and having considered everything I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct that Monzo 
pay Mr T compensation of £150.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint against Monzo Bank 
Ltd and direct it pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman