DRN-2797863
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk) gave her a loan she couldnt afford to repay due to her financial situation 
at the time.
 
Miss P is also unhappy that MoneyBoat threatened to apply an adverse marker with CIFAS. 
What happened
Miss P took one loan from MoneyBoat on 2 April 2018. The loan was for £300 and Miss P 
needed to make four repayments of around £112.60 per month. The loan was repaid on 24 
July 2018. 
In our latest assessment the adjudicator didnt think MoneyBoat shouldve approved Miss Ps 
loan because the information MoneyBoat gathered at the point of application indicated that 
Miss P was having problems managing her money because she had numerous outstanding 
short-term loans and other credit debt. 
It appears that Miss P agreed with our adjudicators opinion about the lending decision. But 
Miss P was unhappy the adjudicator hadnt addressed her complaint about the CIFAS 
marker. She says MoneyBoat threatened her (and other customers) with the marker to try 
and persuade them not to continue with the complaint. 
MoneyBoat also disagreed and provided the following points to consider;
The checks undertaken were proportionate especially during the early stages of the 
lending relationship.
MoneyBoat says it would be unrealistic for an underwriter to sit and review every line 
of the credit report prior to lending, especially at the early stages of the relationship  
nor has it found anywhere in the regulations or guidance that suggests the regulator 
(the FCA) that a lender is obliged to do so.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was provided.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss P. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint. 
When Miss P approached MoneyBoat for her loan, MoneyBoat completed an income and 
expenditure check, as well as a credit check. Miss P told it she had a monthly income of 
£1,890 and her monthly expenditure amounted to £1,000. 
MoneyBoat further increased Miss Ps declared expenditure by adding an additional amount 
of £288.30 to her expenses. MoneyBoat says it increased Miss Ps expenditure as her credit 
report highlighted a different expenditure amount compared to the amount Miss P disclosed. 
And/or to bring Miss P in-line with the average expenditure listed on the Common Financial 
Statement. MoneyBoat noted Miss Ps total monthly expenditure as £1,288.30. This would 
have left her with a disposable monthly income of around £600 from which to meet her 
monthly repayments of no more than £112.60. So, I think the loan repayments would have 
appeared affordable based on the headline information MoneyBoat gathered.
However, MoneyBoat has provided the full results of a credit check it completed for Miss Ps 
loan which showed her circumstances were more precarious then the expenditure 
information she declared. The results of the credit check showed Miss P taken 73 accounts in the last six years, and 
she had settled 51 of these accounts. Furthermore, Miss P had opened 16 new accounts 
within the previous six months before her application with MoneyBoat. This was a significant 
number of accounts taken within a short period of time and showed that Miss P was opening 
an average of three accounts per month. The report also showed Miss P had 21 active credit 
accounts. 
This high number of newly opened accounts suggested Miss P was most likely reliant on 
short-term lending - as I find it difficult to understand why she would need to request several 
new accounts each month if that werent the case. This is further demonstrated by the 
number of credit searches showing on the credit report. MoneyBoat was aware that Miss P 
had 31 credit searches within the last 6 months, with 16 of these searches having been 
conducted in the three months prior to her application  an average of 5 per month. 
I think there is an argument to say this number of credit searches and new accounts being 
open was enough to suggest the loan would be unsustainable and so it shouldnt have been 
lent. 
A closer look at the credit check results, indicates that Miss P had a number of outstanding 
advance against income (short term lending), home credit loans and unsecured loans. 
Which given the number of the unsecured loans (and the repayment amounts) had led me to 
conclude its more likely than not some of them were likely to be short term loans. And given 
what I can see, it seems that Miss P had at least 11 such loans with the repayments taking 
up the majority of Miss Ps income.  
On top of this, MoneyBoat on the first page of the credit report, knew that Miss P had around 
£10,000 debt in loans/instalment credit and £18,000 in revolving credit. And she was using 
100% of her available credit. 
The overall picture from the credit check showed Miss P was utilising a significant amount of 
credit up to her limit and had a number of outstanding loans (including short term loans) that 
took the majority of her income to repay.  MoneyBoat knew all of this, which points towards 
Miss P being reliant on this type of lending and was therefore likely having problems 
managing her money. 
I acknowledge what MoneyBoat says about it being unrealistic for an underwriter to sit and 
review every line of a credit file prior to lending, especially at the early stages of the 
relationship. But MoneyBoat cannot simply ignore the information that it has been provided 
with, especially when the information gathered shows that the loan repayments are 
potentially a high risk to the customer. 
What I would point out is that much of the information I used could be found within the first 
two pages of the credit report. So a forensic, line by line, review was not necessary to 
identify the problematic flags in this case.
As part of its comments following our adjudicators view, MoneyBoat has said it was unable 
to find guidance in the FCA guidance which shows it had to review all the information as a 
result of a customers credit check. The FCA guidance says in CONC 5.2A.7:
A firm must base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information:
(1) of which it is aware at the time the creditworthiness assessment is carried out;
(2) obtained, where appropriate, from the customer, and where necessary from a 
credit reference agency, and the information must enable the firm to carry out a 
reasonable creditworthiness assessment.So, my interpretation of this would be that the credit report is information that the lender is 
aware of at the time the assessment is carried out. So as MoneyBoat was aware of the 
information given to it by the credit reference agencies, I dont consider it reasonable that a 
lender would carry out a type of check and then just disregard some of the information it had 
been provided. Im satisfied that the information was gathered by MoneyBoat and therefore 
should be considered as part of the creditworthiness assessment. 
CIFAS 
Ive thought carefully about this part of the complaint. I believe, that Miss P is referring to the 
following passage contained within the final response letter she received from MoneyBoat.
 
It is worth noting that it would be considered an offence to have obtained funds by 
deception. If after this response you are suggesting that the information you provided 
did no accurately reflect your circumstances at the time of sale, then I need to advise 
you that we reserve the right to pass details of your application on to CIFAS the fraud 
prevention agency (note that as a result, this information would be utilised by other 
financial providers for their consideration in future dealings with you).
But a similar statement passage is also contained within MoneyBoats acknowledgement 
email to Miss Ps complaint.
 
Broadly speaking Miss P has two concerns with these passages. Firstly, the wider impact on 
what another consumer may do in response to seeing this and secondly, the impact on her, 
if a CIFAS marker was recorded and her reaction to the text.
 
It is clear Miss Ps is concerned and she is troubled about how other consumers may 
interpret this and the impact on their complaints. But, I have to consider my role and remit 
when looking at this part of the complaint.
 
My role is to resolve complaints, in a fair and reasonable way based on the individual 
circumstances of a case. This effectively means, Im not in a position to make a finding about 
how this text could be perceived by other people, and how they may react to it and or/ 
anything they may do in response to it. 
This service isnt the regulator, as Miss P is aware, which means we are only looking at 
whether MoneyBoat has done anything wrong in her case. And if so, what does it need to do 
in order to put things right.
 
I appreciate Miss P will be disappointed by this, and I can see shes put a lot of time and 
effort in making her submissions. But I dont have the power to consider how other people 
may react, I can only consider what happened in the circumstances of Miss Ps complaint. 
MoneyBoat could chose to change or amend its procedures that is a matter for them. But 
Ive already explained above, why in this case, it ought to have been aware that Miss P 
couldnt sustainable take on more lending based on the information that it gathered from the 
credit reference agencies. 
There may be occasions, based on the individual circumstances of a case where a CIFAS 
referral may be appropriate. But in this case, there is nothing to suggest that a CIFAS 
marker has been applied against Miss P. Indeed, if one had been applied, Id have concerns 
that it was reasonable. Given MoneyBoats obligations to carry our proportionate checks 
before lending and what it knew about Miss Ps circumstances. But I cant make a further 
award for something that, as far as I can see MoneyBoat hasnt done.
 Miss P also said she realised how difficult it would be to potentially remove the CIFAS 
marker and she said the thought that information could be registered with left her in tears 
and it was only the reassurance from her partner that helped her. 
As far as I can see, there is no financial loss to Miss P in relation to CIFAS. Ive taken on 
board what shes said about her reaction to this and I have no doubt that she was concerned 
about the impact any complaint could have on her CIFAS record. But, I dont think in this 
case, MoneyBoat needs to do any more. 
Finally, Miss P has said that she requested her information under a data subject access 
request (DSAR). And she said potentially some information hasnt been provided to her that 
shes entitled to. If she has any concerns around this, shell need to raise these concerns 
with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO is the body set up to deal with 
this type of issues, so I say no more about it.  
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not approved Miss Ps loan as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss P may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, Miss P may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss P in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss P would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think MoneyBoat were wrong to approve Miss Ps loans. So, MoneyBoat should do the 
following to put things right: 
Refund all interest, fees and charges Miss P paid towards the loan
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss P from the
date Miss P originally made her payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded about loan 1 from Miss 
Ps credit file.

*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat should 
give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im uphold Miss Ps complaint in part.Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) should put things right for 
Miss P as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman