DRN-3961355
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Wesleyan Assurance Society mis-sold him an income protection policy 
unsuitable for his needs. 
What happened
In 2020 Wesleyan sold Mr W an income protection policy, underwritten by an insurer Ill refer 
to as A (the policy). 
The policy has a benefit guarantee. So if, for any reason, Mr Ws income in the 12 months 
prior to claiming under the policy was less than the income needed to justify the monthly 
benefit detailed on the insurance schedule  subject to the remaining terms of the policy - 
the benefit guarantee would be applied. 
When reviewing the policy documents in 2022, Mr Ws partner was concerned that Mr W 
wouldnt be able to claim the benefit guarantee under the policy as, to qualify, hed have to 
be working a minimum 16 hours per week immediately before incapacity.
Due to the nature of Mr Ws work, he doesnt work 16 hours per week continuously 
throughout the year. He was therefore concerned that if he became incapacitated and hadnt 
been working at least 16 hours per week immediately preceding the date of incapacity, he 
wouldnt be entitled to the benefit guarantee. 
He contacted A and, in October 2022, A acknowledged to him in writing that given the nature 
of his occupation, there would be periods of time throughout the year where he wouldnt be 
working. However, he wouldnt be penalised for not working 16 hours per week prior to 
claiming on the policy, providing hed been working at least 16 hours per week up to the 
periods he wouldnt typically be working. 
And, if, due to his zero hours contract, there were some weeks which didnt fulfil the required 
16 hours per week at the time of claim then A would look at the number of hours completed 
throughout the 39 school term weeks prior to claiming when hed otherwise be working, to 
calculate the average. When doing so, A said it would ask Mr W to provide evidence of 
hours worked.
Mr W is unhappy because although he received written assurances from A in October 2022 
as to how the benefit guarantee would operate in his individual circumstances, up until that 
point he says hed been paying a monthly premium for the policy which was unsuitable for 
his needs. He says that A has effectively agreed to override the terms of the policy as of 
October 2022 but before then, if hed needed to claim the benefit guarantee, he might not 
have been able to do so.
He raised concerns with Wesleyan and says that it should refund to him the monthly 
premiums he paid for the policy up until October 2022. Wesleyan didnt uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
Unhappy, Mr W referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what 
happened and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr W disagreed. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mr W has said, since A has confirmed the basis of how the guaranteed benefit 
will be considered given his circumstances, hes happy that the policy meets his needs from 
October 2022. However, hes concerned that A effectively changed the terms of the policy to 
accommodate his circumstances and if hed needed to make a claim before then, he may 
not have been able to satisfy the policy terms in respect of the guaranteed benefit. 
The terms of the policy set out how the benefit amount is calculated  including the 
maximum yearly amount which is the maximum amount Mr W could be entitled to at the time 
of claim when considering his earnings in the 12 months immediately before incapacity. 
Relevant to this case, the terms also say the benefit guarantee would apply:
If immediately before incapacity you were working at least 16 hours a week and your 
maximum yearly amount is lower than the benefit amount shown in your policy 
schedule:
(a) We'll pay the benefit amount if it's up to £1,500 a month... 
I understand what Mr W says about the nature of his occupation and there could be weeks 
at a time when he wasnt working 16 hours per week continuously. So, he says if he became 
incapacitated at time when he hadnt been continuously working the required number of 
hours, he wouldnt be entitled to the benefit guarantee under the policy.
However, given the nature of his occupation, A accepts that its possible that he might not be 
continuously working 16 hours per weeks, and its provided a breakdown of how it would 
assess the guarantee benefit for Mr W in the event of a claim.
Wesleyan contacted A. A confirmed that the policy terms hadnt changed and given the 
nature of Mr Ws occupation  which had been the same since the policy started  it would 
have calculated the guaranteed benefit in the same way. Im satisfied theres no compelling 
reason to doubt what A says about that given that its a third party, not part of this complaint. 
Given As confirmation that the same approach wouldve been taken had Mr W needed to 
make a claim under the policy between 2020 (when taking out the policy) and October 2022 
(when receiving As written confirmation), Im satisfied the policy wasnt mis-sold for this 
reason. 
When selling the policy to Mr W, Wesleyan was under an obligation to ensure that it was 
suitable for his needs and that he was given clear, fair and not misleading information about 
the main features of the policy. 
Given As letter dated October 2022 and its subsequent confirmation to Wesleyan that it 
wouldve always taken the same approach to the guaranteed benefit in Mr Ws 
circumstances since the inception of the policy, I dont think the way in which the guaranteed 
benefit was calculated made the policy unsuitable for Mr W.
Its possible that he wasnt given clear, fair and not misleading information about the way in 
which the guaranteed benefit was calculated. But for the reasons set out above, had he been given clearer information about this at the time  and this reflected what A has 
confirmed the position is  I dont think that wouldve prevented Mr W from taking out the 
policy then. He wanted income protection and it appears since receiving As letter dated 
October 2022 confirming how it would apply the guaranteed benefit, hes happy with that. 
So, Im persuaded that had he been aware of this position when taking out the policy, he 
wouldve still bought it. 
Ive considered what Mr W has said about what he was told during various calls with As 
representatives when first enquiring about the way in which the guaranteed benefit is 
assessed in 2022. However, Im satisfied that A has provided clarity on its position in its 
letter of October 2022. And Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to rely on the contents 
of that letter when considering whether the policy had been mis-sold. If hes unhappy with 
the information provided to him by A during the calls, hes free to raise those concerns 
directly with A in the first instance. But Ive placed less weight on what he says he was told 
during those calls when determining whether Wesleyan mis-sold the policy to him - instead 
relying more on the letter dated October 2022 from A.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman