DRN-2888597
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging him for payment protection insurance (PPI), 
claims that he said he didnt authorise them to make. 
What happened
Mr A said he knew nothing about Allay and hadnt signed any instructions for them to pursue 
PPI claims on his behalf. He said hed been told by one of his lenders that they didnt have a 
letter of authority (LoA) from Allay. Mr A also said hed not received any notification from 
Allay about PPI claims, so hed not been given the opportunity to cancel. Mr A also 
complained that the fee of 24% plus VAT Allay was asking him to pay was excessive. He 
complained to Allay.
Allay said Mr A had initially enquired about their claims service in March 2019, but he hadnt 
signed a LoA. But with the approach of the August 2019 deadline for making PPI claims, 
Allay asked Mr A to complete an LoA in June 2019. And theyd submitted this to his 
lender(s). Allay said theyd kept Mr A updated about his claims. Mr A hadnt cancelled his 
agreement with them, and as hed successful claims, they said their fee was justified.
Mr A wasnt happy with Allays response. He said the signature on the LoA wasnt his. Mr A 
reiterated he hadnt authorised Allay to act on his behalf to make any claim for mis-sold PPI. 
He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said  it was more likely that Mr A had authorised Allay to make claims for 
mis-sold PPI on his behalf. And that theyd submitted his claims which had been successful. 
He said Allays fees were justified.
Mr A didnt agree and was adamant hed never signed the LoA. And his personal 
circumstances at the time meant he wouldnt have been considering a PPI claim. He asked 
for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr As frustration as he doesnt agree that he asked Allay to look into 
whether he had any PPI, and strongly feels the signature on the LoA wasnt his.
While the signature Mr A has given to this service doesnt resemble the signature on the 
LoA, it isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, we arent handwriting 
experts and forgery would be for a criminal court to decide. 
Were an informal dispute resolution service. This means were impartial and look at both 
sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story because of who they are. 
We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. Where there is a different 
version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision on what I think most likely 
happened. So, I need to determine whether its more likely that Mr A authorised Allay to act 
on his behalf. And if he had, whether he let them know he no longer wanted them to work for 
him. 
Allay has shown an enquiry about their claims service was made in March 2019. The enquiry 
held specific personal details about Mr A, some that correlate to personal details Mr A has 
given to us. Amongst the personal details given, Allay has shown an email address 
containing 1966 was provided and a landline telephone number. A LoA wasnt completed 
at this time.
In late June 2019, Allay said they reached out to customers whod made enquiries to say 
that a PPI claim couldnt be submitted without a LoA. Allay said that Mr A returned the LoA 
within 10 minutes of their contacting him. And they sent the LoA to Mr As lenders. Allay has 
shown the audit trail for the completion of this LoA. And Mr As personal details were 
updated at this time with a mobile telephone number ending *1293, and a different email 
address, the same email address Mr A has given to us.
Allay has said the LoA couldnt be submitted without a signature being added. And after the 
LoA was submitted there would be an on-screen acknowledgement that the application had 
been received.
I can see from Allays records that a message was sent in early July 2019 to the mobile 
telephone number ending *1293 that says:
 Thank you for signing your online documents. While we check for PPI.. 
So, on balance I think Mr A provided the details that populated the LoA as they were specific 
to him, and the LoA was submitted. Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. 
And in completing the LoA Mr A had agreed to them. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
And in early August I can see that Allay emailed Mr A to give him an update about his PPI 
check. But the email was sent to  the email address - 1966 that was provided in March 
2019, and not the email given in June 2019. But I can see that 1966 was still an active 
email address as Mr A was using this email address in some of his communications with 
Allay after July 2019. So Ive no reason to doubt that Mr A would have received emails sent 
to this email address.
Alays terms and conditions go on to say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14-day cooling off period we 
obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
And give a variety of channels that can be used to cancel the agreement.
So, Ive looked to see if Mr A would have known from what point hed 14 days to cancel the 
agreement.In early August 2019, an email was sent to Mr A headed Great News. And said Mr As  
claim had been submitted. This doesnt automatically mean that a PPI claim will be 
successful, as the claim needs to show the PPI policy was mis-sold.  Within this notification 
there would have been a link to a PPI questionnaire to provide supporting information for the 
PPI claim. And another Great News email was sent in mid-September 2019. Allay also sent 
a PPI questionnaire to Mr A at the end of September 2019.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies (CMC) 
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. 
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. So, 
the PPI questionnaire wasnt always needed for a PPI claim to be considered. But the 
information could be used to support the claim and strengthen the claim that the PPI policy 
was mis-sold. I know Mr A didnt complete or return the PPI questionnaire.  But neither of his 
lenders needed any further information to decide on whether his PPI had been mis-sold. Mr 
As lenders Ill call H and L converted the LoA submitted to them by Allay into a mis-sold 
PPI claim and progressed the claim without the need for the PPI questionnaire.
The first Great News email was sent 9 August 2019, so I think this was the point at which 
Mr A would have had a 14-day cooling off period. This meant he would have had up to 23 
August 2019 to cancel the agreement. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr A asked Allay to cancel his agreement either within or 
after the 14-day cooling off period. And despite still getting updates I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr A asked Allay to stop or question them as to why they were still contacting 
him. The claim may not have been formalised according to Mr A, but its not enough that he 
simply disengaged from the process. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to act on 
his behalf before the end of the 14-day cooling off period, theyd continued to provide their 
claims service.
In November 2019, I can see H and in December 2019, I can see L told both  Mr A and 
Allay that Mr As PPI claim had been successful. I can see that there is a clear reference to 
Allay in the notifications sent to Mr A from both lenders. I think this shows Mr As lenders 
recognised Allay as his representative.
The agreement Mr A had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Allays fee as outlined above isnt based on the work they did but on whether the claim they 
submitted was successful or not. Allay submitted Mr As claims as their agreement hadnt 
been cancelled. And Mr As claims were successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr A agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. The successful claim with H was about a joint account. The LoA sent 
by Allay was solely in Mr As name, and as Id expect Allay has only asked for a fee based 
on 50% of the compensation awarded. 
I think, based on the evidence Ive seen that its more likely than not that Mr A authorised 
Allay to submit PPI claims on his behalf. Mr A could have cancelled his agreement with 
Allay. But I cant see he cancelled the agreement before his claims were successful. I know Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied that Allay was authorised 
by him to act on his behalf and his claims were successful. This means Allay can charge 
their fees for these claims. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman