DRN-2978449
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way their home insurance claim for water damage was
dealt with by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.  
What happened
On Christmas Day 2019 Mr and Mrs M suffered an escape of water from their loft area which
caused damage throughout the house. They were without electricity for a couple of days and
had to sleep at a relatives house. A plumber attended after Mrs M called the emergency
helpline detailed in the policy, and fixed the leak.
Strip out and drying of the premises was carried out by Lloyds contractors. There were
delays in getting the property dried, and repairs had to be postponed until after the March
2020 lockdown. Because of this and the fact that Lloyds contractors were very busy, Mr and
Mrs M decided to appoint loss assessors to act for them in managing the claim and dealing
with the repairs.
When contractors were able to return to the property, the schedule of works had to be 
updated, but Mr and Mrs M found this covered less than before. The loss assessors were 
given a budget of £8,000 which they said wasnt sufficient to do all the work. There were 
then issues over the skirting boards and door frames  when they were removed mould was 
found behind them. After the repairs were completed, there were some outstanding issues,
which Ive set out below.
After Mr and Mrs M complained to us they obtained a report from a damp specialist detailing 
that several areas needed replastering, ceilings needed to be redone and some floor sheets 
stripped out and replaced. This was because they were all apparently affected by damp 
and/or mould. Its quote for repairs amounted to some £16,000, twice the amount Lloyds 
allowed for the original repairs.
Lloyds said that as the report was sent through some time after its final response letter, and
as its contractors would have to inspect and assess the area, this should be dealt with as a
new complaint. It also pointed out that it didnt employ the contractors and shouldnt be
responsible for any poor work on their part.  
Our investigator accepted that Lloyds would have to go out and inspect the areas identified
for repair. But she also said that Lloyds should pay a cash settlement based on the damp
specialist report and quote. In respect of the other issues Lloyds agreed to do the following:
pay £40 for carpet removal
pay £1044.71 for the additional work Mr and Mrs M had to pay for
Replace the ceiling in bedroom 2 - it will appoint a contractor
For the issue arising out of the damp specialists report only, I issued a provisional decision. 
In it I said that I said Lloyds should consider this issue further, and not pay a cash settlement 
until it had carried out further investigations.
In response Lloyds has sent us copies of an email exchange with the loss assessors in 
which they said that the ceilings didnt require removal and replacement and were not within 
the scope. It believes it has issued all payments requested by the loss assessors.
Mr and Mrs M arent happy with my proposed compensation award, and believe that any 
inspection must be done by an independent damp specialist.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has agreed to pay £1,044.71 for the additional work paid for by Mr and Mrs M, 
together with £40 for the carpet removal and to replace the ceiling in bedroom 2. It has also 
agreed to pay £1,000 compensation.
I wont comment on the agreed payments, save to say they appear reasonable to me. In 
respect of the ceiling in bedroom 2 I still think that should be done although additional repairs 
may be necessary following Lloyds reconsideration.
As regards compensation, I think the £1,000 recommended by the investigator and agreed 
by Lloyds is reasonable to compensate Mr and Mrs M especially for the issues in the 
immediate aftermath of the leak and the delay in getting all the necessary work done. It is 
line with other awards we have made and if Lloyds hadnt agreed to it I would not have 
awarded any more.
As regards the ceiling in the kitchen and lounge, the kitchen ceiling was in the original scope 
of work. As for the lounge, whilst I note that the loss assessor said it wasnt directly affected 
by the escape of water, I am of the view that in order to carry out an effective repair the 
lounge ceiling needs repairing. So Lloyds should either arrange for the ceilings to be done or 
pay Mr and Mrs M an agreed cash settlement to enable them to get the ceilings repaired by 
their own contractor, if that is what they want.
The following were my provisional findings in respect of the issues dealt with in Mr and Mrs 
Ms damp specialists report:
In respect only of the issues set out in the damp specialists report, I think it would be
reasonable for Lloyds to consider the matter, and I shall explain why. This means that it will
need to inspect the areas needing repair and consider its liability for that damage, deciding
whether it will pay anything towards its repair, or arrange repair itself. If Mr and Mrs M are
unhappy with Lloyds decision they will be able to make a further complaint and if necessary
refer that complaint to this service.
The report shows that damp readings were taken and the property found to be dry. It then
goes on to say:
There is visible cracking and dropping to the coving and ceiling boards in the landing,
bedroom 1 and 2, en-suite, playroom and kitchen/dining room.
There is cracked/blown plaster on the walls in bedroom 2 and landing.
It was reported there are several 22mm floor sheets that were saturated and
contaminated with black mould that were not replaced; fitted carpets prevented
inspection at time of survey.The repairs to the ceilings are dealt with below. If extra work is to be required as a result of 
the report, Lloyds should be able to inspect it first.
I note the condition of the floor sheets was reported but wasnt able to be inspected at the
time of the survey. Again this needs to be looked at by Lloyds.
As for the repairs overall I understand these were carried out by the contractors employed by
the loss assessor. I understand the reasons why Mr and Mrs M felt the need to arrange their
own repairs, but I have to bear in mind that Lloyds didnt have control of those repairs. And
whilst I note that the loss assessors say they had to work to a reduced schedule because
Lloyds wouldnt fund all the repairs set out in its scope, thats no reason for carrying out poor
work. Ive not seen any details of the negotiations between Lloyds and the loss assessor so I
dont know to what extent it argued the case for further payments. I understand in respect of
some of the work, Mr and Mrs M contributed from their own funds. It could be the case that
Mr and Mrs M will need to make a complaint about their loss assessor.
Im not saying that Lloyds wont have to pay for further repairs. But it would be remiss of me
to make a decision on what or how much it should pay at this time without first giving it the
chance to complete investigations, and if it wants to seek to resolve this particular complaint
aspect. For that reason I think it should consider this issue further.  
Lloyds have responded to my provisional findings enclosing copies of their email 
correspondence with the loss assessor. Im not clear if that was intended to be its 
reconsideration of the matter. To be clear it must go out and inspect the areas. As it set out 
to us:
In respect of the upstairs landing, we would request that one of our suppliers inspects the 
area. They would be instructed to specifically check the integrity of the wood, plaster and 
floorboards for evidence that they have been compromised or whether there is long term 
damage/mould they cant see. Should they find that there is an issue that needs to be 
rectified then we would be happy for the customers to use their own specialist repairer and 
we would pay pre agreed reasonable costs.
I know this was before Mr and Mrs Ms report, but the issues are still the same. that is, 
theres a concern that the property wasnt properly dried out before commencing repairs. But 
since it is now recorded as being dry, it will need to be assessed whether the issues 
identified by Mr and Mrs Ms damp specialist were the result of that or whether they were 
because of poor repairs or a different issue. As these matters have only been raised 
recently, Lloyds should carry out its reinspection and reconsideration of the matter as it 
thinks fit. As the matter hasnt been resolved, any issues Mr and Mrs M have following 
Lloyds reconsideration, they should take up with Lloyds initially. If theyre not satisfied with 
Lloyds reconsideration they can refer that matter back to this service. Although, as Ive said, 
if it is a question of poor workmanship, they may need to complain to their loss assessor.
My provisional findings, set out above, are now final and form part of this final decision.
Finally I believe theres an issue with the damage to the driveway which Lloyds has agreed 
to pay for. Thats a matter Mr and Mrs M should agree directly with Lloyds, it doesnt form 
part of this complaint.
Putting things right
Lloyds should make the following payments:£40 for carpet removal
£1,044.71 for the additional repairs Mr and Mrs M had to pay for
£1,000 compensation.
Lloyds should additionally do the following:
Arrange for repairs to the ceiling in bedroom 2, the kitchen and lounge. If Mr and Mrs M 
would prefer a cash settlement then Lloyds should agree an appropriate such settlement 
with them to enable the repairs to be done.
Reinspect the property and thereafter reconsider Mr and Mrs Ms claim in respect of the 
issues set out in their damp specialists report.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to provide the 
remedy set out above at Putting things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman