DRN-3437629
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the service provided by Quilter Financial Services Ltd when he 
asked to transfer his defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP).
The adviser firm Mr G dealt with was an appointed representative of Quilter, so for ease Ill 
refer to Quilter throughout.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr G requested a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from his DB 
pension scheme administrator in order to pursue a transfer out of the scheme to a SIPP. 
Mr G engaged with a financial adviser, a representative of Quilter, with a view to starting the 
transfer process. A CETV was sent to Mr G in December 2020. However, after further 
conversations with Mr G, in January 2021 Quilter told him that it wouldnt take things any 
further.
Mr G complained that Quilter had ended its relationship with him unfairly  in particular he 
thought it was rude that an administrator, rather than the adviser himself, had informed him 
of this. 
Quilter didnt uphold the complaint as it didnt believe the adviser had treated Mr G unfairly in 
his dealings with him. So, Mr G referred his complaint to our Service. He said hed had to go 
with a different SIPP provider which had cost him more, because his first choice had told him 
it wouldnt be able to complete the transfer within the CETV guarantee period. Mr G also 
thought hed lost out on growth because the investment of the transfer proceeds had been 
delayed.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Ultimately he didnt think the adviser had 
caused unnecessary delays or that he had behaved unreasonably toward Mr G. The 
Investigator said there wasnt a formal advice agreement in place so it wasnt unfair for 
Quilter to decline to provide him with advice at that stage. And he noted that Mr G was still 
able to complete the transfer before the CETV guarantee period ended.
Mr G didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman to 
decide. Mr G thought the adviser was arrogant and egotistical on the phone despite him 
asking reasonable questions about the service and remaining polite and professional 
throughout. Mr G thought the adviser had deliberately prevented him from transferring his 
pension and had caused him to lose out considerably.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
Investigator.
I appreciate that things didnt go as Mr G expected when he engaged with Quilter to 
undertake his pension transfer. And I dont doubt that it was frustrating having to go with a 
different firm to effect the transfer. However, overall, I dont think Quilter treated Mr G 
unfairly, so I dont think it needs to do anything to put things right. 
Although Mr G had given Quilter his authority to proceed gathering information about his 
pension arrangements, there was no agreement in place for Quilter to provide him with 
advice. It doesnt appear that Mr G disputes this, but ultimately he believes Quilters actions 
have caused him a loss because it took too long for the adviser to tell him that it wouldnt be 
taking him on as a client and providing him with advice. He says this had a knock-on effect 
because he couldnt go with his SIPP provider of choice; it felt there wasnt sufficient time to 
complete the transfer within the CETV guarantee period. Instead, he had to go with another 
provider, which charged more. Mr G also says his funds were invested later than they 
otherwise would have been.
Ive considered this carefully but I dont think Quilter has caused Mr G a loss here. I note that 
Mr G gave his authority to proceed with the information gathering at the first meeting on 
8 December 2020. And while details of Mr Gs other pension plans were provided quickly, 
the DB scheme CETV wasnt sent to Quilter until 24 December 2020. But by this time, the 
office was closed until 4 January 2021, and both the adviser Mr G was dealing with (and the 
other pension transfer specialist at the firm) were both on annual leave until 
11 January 2021. I appreciate Mr G was frustrated by this but I dont think that the advisers 
taking an extended break over the festive period was unreasonable or unusual. 
Mr G was informed on 15 January 2021 that Quilter wouldnt be able to provide him with 
advice on his pension transfer. Given the adviser had only returned to work on 
11 January 2021 and wouldve likely also had other clients to follow up with, I dont think that 
was a significant or unreasonable delay. And I dont think it was unfair that Quilter declined 
to provide Mr G with advice. Quilter didnt think Mr G met its strict criteria for a DB transfer 
and ultimately Quilter had a choice as to whether it took Mr G on as a client, in the same way 
that Mr G could choose who he wanted to manage his pensions. Mr G may disagree with the 
reasons for this, but Quilter was entitled to make that decision regardless.
I appreciate that Mr G felt this sequence of events delayed the eventual transfer of his 
pension. But the CETV wasnt sent until 24 December 2020 so the adviser couldnt have 
acted on this until after the festive period. It wasnt ideal that Mr Gs adviser didnt return to 
work until 11 January 2021, but that likely mirrored the situation at many other advisory firms 
during this period. Furthermore, any firm advising on the transfer wouldve needed sight of 
information about Mr Gs other pensions and also needed the DB scheme CETV before it 
could proceed. Its evident this information had been obtained by Quilter, so it was available 
to the next firm. As such, I think any delay in the overall advice process here was negligible.
I also note that Mr G was able to complete the transfer of his pension within the CETV 
guarantee period, so he didnt lose out in this respect. I understand Mr Gs preferred SIPP 
provider didnt think it could complete the transfer in time, meaning he went with a provider 
that charged him more. But given that I dont think Quilter unreasonably delayed telling Mr G 
that it wasnt proceeding with the advice, I dont think it is responsible for the increased cost 
Mr G incurred.
Mr G says that the adviser was arrogant, angry and egotistical on the phone in response to 
his enquiries about the charging structure. And then the adviser didnt do him the courtesy of 
telling Mr G himself that he didnt want to proceed.
Ive listened to this call, which took place on 9 December 2020, following the initial meeting 
on 8 December 2020. But I dont think that the advisers tone or explanations could be described in that way. It seems to me that the adviser wanted to impress on Mr G that the 
charging structure was fixed and why the extra cost (compared to others) was worth it. 
I think that the tone of the conversation could be described as defensive at times, but that 
applies to both parties. And ultimately I think the conversation ended on good terms.
I understand Mr G wouldve preferred to hear from the adviser himself about the decision not 
to proceed. Instead, he received an email from the advisers admin assistant. But I note that 
Mr G had received emails from the admin assistant on the advisers behalf previously. And 
Mr G had had a phone conversation with this assistant the day before when hed enquired 
about the advisers progress. And in this call, the admin assistant said shed update Mr G as 
soon as she could. So, I dont think it is unreasonable that she emailed Mr G to tell him that 
the adviser wasnt able to proceed with giving him advice on his pension transfer. Although 
I can understand why Mr G feels differently.
Mr G has also said that he feels Quilter deliberately delayed matters so that he wouldnt 
benefit from the CETV. But I dont think that is likely; Quilter stood to gain substantially by 
having Mr G as a client, given the fees he could be expected to pay if Quilter effected the 
transfer and became his ongoing adviser. Instead, I think its more likely that Quilter didnt 
consider Mr G to be a good candidate for a DB pension transfer  the Regulator has made it 
clear that such a transfer wont usually be in a customers best interest. So on balance, 
I think Quilter wanted to let Mr G know where he stood before he went on to incur costs.
I appreciate Mr Gs strength of feeling on this matter, but overall I dont think Quilter treated 
him unfairly in its dealings with him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman