DRN-3922988
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he was given when transferring the benefits of a defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a type of personal pension arrangement, in 
2021. 
Mr M says that the business he paid to advise him and then transact the transfer, took far 
too long. He says the effect of this delay caused his pensions transfer value, often referred 
to as a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV), to expire. And when a new CETV was 
recalculated, it was considerably lower. So, Mr M got less than hed been anticipating.
Portafina Investment Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To 
keep things simple Ill therefore refer mainly to Portafina. 
What happened
Mr M was a deferred member of two DB schemes. Because of their respective values, Mr M 
was required by law to obtain regulated financial advice if he was intending to transfer these 
away to a personal pension arrangement.
Mr Ms larger pension had a CETV of around £124,000 but Portafina didnt recommend that 
he should transfer this. This pension is therefore not the subject of any complaint. 
However, his smaller pension had a CETV of around £77,696 and Portafina recommended 
that Mr M should transfer this as hed told the business he wanted to pay off some debts and 
his mortgage. The recommendation was that he would transfer the CETV to a type of low-
end risk index account linked to the stock market, take some tax-free cash and then draw 
down taxable income as he needed. I think its reasonable to say that the funds were 
expected to be depleted within a relatively short time  a few years or so. 
So, to be clear, the only DB pension complaint Im addressing here is about the smaller 
pension. And Mr M isnt complaining about the transfer itself being unsuitable  Ive 
confirmed with him that he definitely wanted to transfer  its about the length of time the 
transfer process took. 
Typically, a CETV lasts for a limited time period before the provider has to revalue it again 
and produce a new figure. Usually the CETV will be valid for a few months and this is well 
known within the pensions industry. Mr Ms complaint now is that because Portafina took so 
long, his CETV actually fell by £5,096. Portafina eventually went on to transact the pension 
transfer for this lower amount, in the late spring of 2021. 
Mr M complained about this to Portafina. He said there were unnecessary delays despite 
Portafina initially assuring him that the pension transfer would be completed quickly. He says 
the adviser became difficult to get hold of and didnt return his calls. Portafina says the 
delays werent its fault as they were caused by a combination of the Covid-19 pandemic and 
failures by the pension companies who administered Mr Ms larger pension. 
Mr M referred the matter to our Service and one of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. They thought his complaint should be upheld and that Portafina ought to pay him 
the £5,096 difference, as mentioned above. Portafina made a modest financial offer to 
resolve the complaint, but Mr M didnt want to accept this. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business and the Code of Business rulebook 
(COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Introduction
I think its fair to say that Mr M had a limited understanding of these types of financial 
matters. From the outset I think Portafina would have known this even from its initial 
contacts. It should have also known, having done this, that the transfer of the funds was 
important to Mr M from a financial perspective. Not unreasonably, he was relying on the 
actual amount of £77,696 hed been originally quoted and so it was therefore important that 
Portafinas communications were clear and timely. 
I also think its fair to say that Mr M believes hes been caused a financial loss because of 
Portafinas inactions, but hes not entirely knowledgeable about whether any losses might be 
due to income tax rules  for example receiving the payment in one tax year rather than 
another - or whether the loss relates to having been first quoted a CETV, but eventually 
getting a lower amount because the quote had expired.
However, I see our investigator did a good job of clearing these matters up when they issued 
their view. What the investigator explained was that a loss due to income tax liability was 
somewhat difficult to speculate on in these circumstances. This is because a higher or lower 
CETV might eventually mean slightly different tax liabilities.
So Ive taken the view that Mr Ms expectation was that hed get the original CETV paid 
before the end of the tax year during which this advice was given and he was broadly 
satisfied with the estimated tax liability hed have to pay. This means Im putting the tax 
issues to one side because the real crux of the matter here is relatively simple  was the 
delay which caused the CETV to expire and fall from £77,696 to £72,600 Portafinas fault?
I think it was  and I also think it needs to pay that money to Mr M.  
The timeline
Our investigator set out in clear terms what the timeline was. Mr Ms smaller DB pension 
CETV was issued on 30 November 2020. It looks to me as if it was dispatched to Portafina 
on 3 December 2020 and looked at by Portafina by 9 December 2020 at the very latest. The 
CETV expiry date, which Portafina would have been fully aware of, was 28 February 2021.
Theres no value in my repeating the timeline in every single detail as it has already been set 
out clearly by the investigator for the parties to comment on. However, Id like to assure both sides that Ive read it with great care and examined all the relevant documentation to confirm 
accuracy. Ive also read with care the responses by Portafina where it gives a perspective on 
the time delays.
Portafina agrees the whole process began in November 2020. However, whilst were 
focussing here on the smaller DB scheme, Portafina says the two pensions needed to be 
considered holistically so that Mr M was given the right advice. Ultimately, only the smaller 
DB scheme is being complained of here as thats the one which was transferred but I can 
accept why both pensions might be considered together. 
In response to Mr Ms initial complaint directly to Portafina, it categorised the delays as being 
related to the pandemic. I accept this was a difficult time for businesses, but Portafina didnt 
really explain why this caused it to miss the CETV deadline of 28 February 2021. It did 
explain, however, that much of the delays in the process were due to awaiting information 
from the larger DB pension provider. As this was important to the overall advice process, 
Portafina says it meant the smaller DB transfer was affected by these delays.
However, as well as looking at all the documentation from the time of this advice, I listened 
to telephone calls between the two parties and with our Service. Calls with the adviser took 
place on 12 and 15 February 2021 and these directly followed a long fact-find call earlier in 
February.
As I say, I can accept this unique period did cause some delays. But Mr M was being 
charged £5,161 for the regulated advice relating to his pension transfer. Portafina also has a 
significant history in this market and everything Ive seen shows the CETV expiry date was 
long known to be 28 February 2021. Neither the fact-find call nor the calls with the pension 
transfer adviser himself adequately highlighted the obvious risk to Mr Ms CETV and 
Portafina would, or certainly should, have known this CETV could easily change when the 
guaranteed period ended.
As Ive said, Mr M wasnt an experienced investor and from what Ive seen (and listened to) 
it was clear there was a degree of vulnerability about his lack of financial understanding in 
this context. So I think Portafina should have known that Mr M almost certainly didnt 
understand the relevance of the CETV expiry date and / or that a revaluation could see a 
reduction  a reduction which for Mr M was a lot of money.
Were Portafinas actions reasonable?
Firstly, I think that Portafina could still have carried out substantial preparatory and 
information gathering work whilst still in 2020. It decided to not fully engage with Mr M in this 
regard, by for example, setting up the fact-find call and then carrying it out so as to be 
placed in an agreeable position should the transfer be deemed suitable. Whilst I accept that 
its Portafinas right to decide how to conduct its business, it already knew by early 
December 2020 of the upcoming CETV expiry date. And I think any reasonable assessment 
of how long that was away  just over two months - particularly in such an unusual time 
period, would have shown this timescale would have been quite tight. 
But that wasnt reflected in Portafinas dealings with Mr M, so by the time the other pension 
provider had supplied the details Portafina was chasing, it was already on the back foot. Put 
another way, it was Portafina which chose to delay the preparatory work until information 
from the unrelated pension came in. And if it had carried out that work first, it would have 
been much further ahead in the advice process.
Secondly, our investigator additionally explained that even then, there was still time to 
transact the transfer ahead of 28 February 2021 deadline. And there was certainly time to tell Mr M about the obvious potential for a revaluation to become necessary and that this 
could result in a lower CETV. Portafina itself says the information it had been waiting for 
came through in mid-January, but says it then needed to re-engage with Mr M. However as 
Ive explained, this further work was only necessary as a result of Portafinas inactions thus 
far.
Ive read everything Portafina has said about the delays. This includes it saying,
we required information regarding both of the schemes  and make our 
recommendations. Despite our best efforts we were not able to provide the advice 
before the [smaller DB scheme] CETV expired. Once we received the information 
from [the larger DB scheme] on 18 January it took six days for the analysis to be 
completed. Whilst this was not a material factor in the [expiry of the smaller schemes 
CETV] it does not represent the level of service that we strive to provide.
Having considered all the evidence and information we have, and as Ive comprehensively 
explained, I think Portafinas inaction resulted in a loss for Mr M and it therefore needs to 
compensate him.
Summary
In this decision I have set out why I dont think Portafina acted in Mr Ms best interests.
From November 2020 it began dealing with Mr M and it should have been obvious that the 
communication and advice to him needed to be very clear and well explained. From early 
December 2020 I think Portafina should have been well aware of the relatively short-term 
nature of Mr Ms CETV, expiring as it did on 28 February 2021.
Mr M was heavily reliant on Portafina for advice  and he was paying a considerable sum for 
that advice. However, by not carrying out reasonable preparatory work with Mr M himself 
whilst waiting from information elsewhere, this only added further tensions in the timeline 
and meant completing all the necessary steps was always going to be a challenge before 
the end of February 2021, when the CETV expired.
By mid-January 2021, Portafina had the information it was seeking from elsewhere, but its 
own failures up to that point meant it had to re-engage with Mr M, thus using up more 
valuable time. As February 2021 arrived, I think Portafina must have known that meeting the 
deadline was unlikely. Nonetheless, it continued to portray positive messages to Mr M who 
seemed blissfully unaware of the potential consequences. Even as late as 25 February 
2021, Mr M was still led to believe his CETV was unchanged at the higher amount.
Up to and indeed after this point, Mr M had made concrete plans for his future which 
included paying off borrowings he had outstanding. I think changing these plans after several 
months of consideration was unlikely, as by the spring of 2021, he was fixed on the idea of 
getting some cash he hadnt really been expecting until he rediscovered his deferred 
pensions in 2020. He desperately wanted to put the cash to good use to help his future life 
plans, so he went ahead with the transfer process, led in doing so by Portafina.
But we now know Mr M lost out financially because of Portafinas inactions. Missing the 
CETV deadline cost Mr M £5,096. And for these reasons, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Putting things right
Portafina transacted the transfer after a revaluation of the CETV which meant Mr M lost out 
on £5,096. It therefore needs to compensate Mr M for the loss of this £5,096.My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable and timely advice in accordance with the 
regulators expectations.
I accept that Mr M may have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he transferred, took some tax-
free cash and invested the remainder.
What must Portafina do?
To compensate Mr M fairly:
Portafina should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of £5,096 compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment 
to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so 
Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer, the reduction would equal 
the current basic rate of tax. 
Portafina should also then compare the performance of Mr M's investment with the 
added compensation to that of the benchmark shown below. If the value is greater 
then there is an additional loss and additional compensation is payable.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Pension Plan Still exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index28 February 
2021Date of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I now direct Portafina Investment Management Limited to pay the compensation amount of 
£5,096 and apply the calculations as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman