DRN-2795344
The complaint
Mrs L is dissatisfied with the service shes received from Scottish Widows Limited in 
connection with her pension plan. 
What happened
Mrs L contacted Scottish Widows about her stakeholder pension plan in February 2018 to 
say she wanted to change her normal retirement date (NRD) from 1 June 2025 to 1 June 
2020. 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mrs L on 20 February 2018, acknowledging her request and 
asking her to get in contact to say what she wanted to do with her lifestyling investments. 
The letter explained that her plan invested in a lifestyling profile which automatically moved 
investments into lower risk funds as Mrs L approached her NRD. When shed told Scottish 
Widows about her new NRD, she hadnt said if she wanted the timings of the investment 
switches to be realigned with her new NRD. The letter said she should call as soon as 
possible to confirm how shed like it managed. In the meantime, the timings of the fund 
switches would continue to be based on her old NRD.
In June 2018 a financial adviser instructed by Mrs L requested details of her plan which 
Scottish Widows supplied within a few days. And Mrs L spoke to Scottish Widows in August 
2018. During one of the calls, the representative explained lifestyling options. I understand 
Mrs L said it wasnt something she wanted to consider. 
Mrs Ls calls were followed up by letters. For example, theres a letter sent in August 2018 
thanking Mrs L for taking the time to discuss her pension and enclosing some further 
information, including a fact fund sheet for the Consensus Fund. Another fund fact sheet was 
sent in September 2018, again after a telephone call.  
A letter sent in August 2019 said Mrs Ls plan was invested in the Balanced Investor 
targeting pension encashment (taking it as cash lump sums) lifestyle investment strategy. 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mrs L again on 30 September 2019. The letter enclosed an 
endorsement recording the change to Mrs Ls NRD. Under the heading, Lifestyle Investment 
Strategy (may also be referred to as Pension Investment Approach) it said:
At present, your policy includes lifestyle switching as part of your investment strategy. This 
means that as you get closer to 1 June 2025 (known as your Lifestyle Target Date), we 
gradually adjust and move your policy into lower risk investments in accordance with your 
chosen lifestyle switching strategy. The process of switching to lower risk funds will complete 
by your Lifestyle Target Date. Although this may reduce the growth potential of your policy, it 
also aims to help protect the value of your fund as you near retirement. 
The letter continued: 
When you asked us to change your retirement date, you did not want us to realign the 
lifestyle investment strategy of your policy to your new retirement date, so your investments 
will continue to align to 1 June 2025. As your new retirement date is earlier than your current 
Lifestyle Target Date, the switching process may not have entirely moved your policy to the 
lower risk investments before you reach your new retirement date. Due to this, you may want 
to regularly review your investment or contact us if you decide you would prefer to realign 
your Lifestyle Target Date to your new retirement date.
After that the letter set out the current fund investments  100% of the fund (valued at 
£80,456.04 as at 30 September 2019) was invested in the Consensus Fund. Under the 
heading, What do you need to do? it said Mrs L didnt need to do anything. 
Theres a letter dated January 2020 from Scottish Widows, headed Weve fixed an error on 
your plan. It said, when Mrs L had asked to change her NRD, shed been told the change 
couldnt be made straight away but it had now been done. Scottish Widows apologised for 
the delay. And added that it shouldve made Mrs L aware that her plan only allowed her to 
change her NRD once so, if shed like to change or cancel her previous request, she should 
let Scottish Widows know. The letter referred to lifestyle switching and said, when Mrs L had 
notified her new NRD, shed told Scottish Widows she wanted her lifestyle investment 
strategy to continue to be based on her old NRD. So her plan wouldnt have completely 
moved into lower risk investments by the time she reached her retirement date and she 
should regularly review her investments to ensure they remained appropriate. 
Ive seen a letter dated 3 February 2020 which was sent after Mrs L had been in contact with 
Scottish Widows again. It gave the current fund value and recommended that Mrs L visit 
Pension Wises website or contact them. Theres a further letter dated 6 March 2020. It gives 
details of how Mrs L could take tax free cash and withdrawals from her plan. As mentioned 
below, Mrs L says she didnt get that letter and, in any event, she says it didnt make sense. 
Mrs L says that she tried, unsuccessfully, to contact Scottish Widows by telephone during 
March 2020. Her fund value was falling and she wanted to discuss protecting it by switching 
into a cash based fund. 
Mrs L complained to Scottish Widows by telephone on 24 April 2020. 
In its letter of 21 May 2020 Scottish Widows said it would be sending a cheque for £50 for 
the difficulties Mrs L had in trying to contact Scottish Widows to discuss her pension plan. It 
said the main aspect of her complaint was the wording of a letter dated 10 April 2020 which 
Scottish Widows said was a standard letter sent to pension customers as they approached 
their NRD. Scottish Widows explained that NRD wasnt a fixed date but required for the 
administration of the plan. Scottish Widows said it had checked Mrs Ls fund value as at the 
date of her call and when she was able to make contact and she hadnt suffered any loss 
over that period. 
Scottish Widows had also emailed Mrs L on 19 May 2020. Amongst other things, the email 
gave instructions on how to access fund information (via online fund fact sheets), details of 
the fund switch process and lifestyling information. About the latter, the email said Mrs L 
currently had a Balanced Investor lifestyle active which meant that three years to 
retirement, starting on 1 June 2022, funds would begin to invest in the Cash fund and remain 
there until the nominated retirement date. It said lifestyle switching could be removed, added 
or changed at any point. 
I understand that on 20 May 2020 Mrs L switched her fund out of the Consensus Fund into a 
cash based fund. 
Mrs L wrote to Scottish Widows on 2 June 2020 (I think she resent her letter on 26 June 
2020 by registered post as she hadnt heard back). She was unhappy with Scottish Widows response to her complaint which she said was much broader than the two issues Scottish 
Widows had dealt with. Amongst other things she said:
Thered been a lack of proper management which had affected the value of her fund.
She hadnt been given the clear, concise and timely vital information she needed to 
make informed decisions. Scottish Widows should be proactive in managing her 
funds in accordance with her risk level. 
When shed taken out her pension some 20 years ago shed chosen a medium risk 
fund. Her plan included automatic switching into lower risk funds as she approached 
her NRD  as Scottish Widows letter of 20 February 2018 clearly stated. Due to a 
change in her circumstances she opted for a new NRD and shed told Scottish 
Widows that. Since 28 September 2018 shed been asking for detailed information 
about the Consensus Fund which hadnt been forthcoming. It was only due to her 
perseverance that shed got the detailed information she needed about lifestyling 
options on 20 May 2020. 
Shed had numerous confusing letters and telephone conversations. There were 
different telephone numbers for Scottish Widows with long wait times only then to be 
told she needed to contact a different department. Information sent by post was 
generalised and unhelpful. 
Shed never had a reply to a letter she sent on 27 February 2020.
She kept receiving letters from Scottish Widows demanding that she make a 
decision about her pension with rather threatening wording about reinvesting until 
she reaches age 75.
Concerned about the effects of the lockdown on her fund value  which had reduced 
 she tried to get in contact with Scottish Widows about switching to cash. She called 
two different customer services numbers and, after getting through security, was told 
the offices were closed. Scottish Widows, unlike other organisations, didnt reassure 
her of its availability during that unprecedented time. 
On 20 May 2020 she finally got the information shed been requesting since 
September 2018. She found out, despite the Consensus Fund being medium risk, it 
included 73.9% equities  she understood that equities are the highest risk 
investments. And her fund included automatic switching of funds but that had been 
turned off. 
In mid January 2020 her fund value was at its highest - £82,954. There was a small 
overall fall in February 2020 to £82,169. In March 2020 it fell to £69,999 before 
recovering to £70,782 when she decided, on 20 May 2020, to switch to a cash based 
fund. 
During March 2020, and possibly longer, Scottish Widows had failed to manage her 
funds correctly. 
Scottish Widows replied on 1 July 2020. It said:
The drop in fund value was caused largely by the pandemic and beyond its control. 
Mrs Ls pension fund had recovered about half of the losses experienced. 
All mandatory documentation as required by the regulator had been provided. 
It had written to Mrs L on 30 September 2019 confirming the request to amend the 
NRD to age 55. The letter had said that the lifestying investment strategy would 
continue to align to the original NRD. 
The structure of its funds in relation to their risk levels meets with clearly defined 
parameters set down by the regulator. While individual share dealing can be seen as 
high risk, fund managers aimed to mitigate this risk and provide above average 
growth by investing in a wide variety of markets which typically included equities, 
bonds and cash in varying proportions dependent on the risk exposure chosen.
All information Mrs L had requested had been provided. In September 2018 a fund fact sheet for the Consensus Fund had been emailed, along with further information 
as to where details about other funds available on its website could be found. 
A reply to Mrs Ls letter of 27 February 2020 was sent on 6 March 2020, a copy of 
which was enclosed.  
Mrs L responded on 31 July 2020. Amongst other things she said the letter dated 20 
February 2018 said her plan was invested in a lifestyle profile which automatically moves the 
investments into a lower risk fund as her NRD approached but that hadnt been done. 
Scottish Widows had said she hadnt asked for the lifestyling strategy to be aligned to her 
new NRD. But shed told Scottish Widows about her new NRD and the switching was 
automatic. She had no record of not wanting the realignment to be completed. Scottish 
Widows letter of 30 September 2019 said she didnt need to do anything. 
Since then shed been bombarded with letters that didnt make sense. For example, the 
letter sent in January 2020 which said Scottish Widows had fixed an error on her plan. She 
was concerned when she got that letter, especially about what it said about her having said 
she wanted the lifestyle investment strategy to continue to be based on her original NRD. 
Shed made endless phone calls without getting any relevant information. It was only when 
she called on 20 May 2020 that she finally got the information shed been requesting since 
2018. She said shed never received the letter dated 6 March 2020 and what it said didnt 
make sense anyway. 
Scottish Widows wrote again on 12 August 2020. It had reviewed its decision but it was 
unchanged. Amongst other things it said it had provided responses to Mrs Ls requests for 
information, including emailing fund fact sheets in August and September 2018 and details 
of how to access its website. There werent any known problems with email at the time, 
although security settings on customers devices might restrict receipt of certain types of 
emails. 
The letter of 20 February 2020 said the timings of the lifestyling switches would continue to 
be based on Mrs Ls original NRD. How lifestyling worked was discussed over the telephone 
in August 2018. When Mrs L had been told that her funds would gradually be moved into 
less risky funds such as cash and fixed interest bonds as she approached retirement, shed 
said that was something shed prefer not to do. 
There was nothing to say the letter dated 6 March 2020 hadnt been posted but the postal 
service may have been impacted by the imminent lockdown. Scottish Widows didnt agree 
with Mrs Ls comments about the content of the letter. Or that the quality of communications 
generally had been lacking. The technical content had been assessed to ensure it met strict 
guidelines set by the regulator. 
Mrs L remained unhappy and referred her complaint to us. On her complaint form she said 
the problem had started in September 2018 following the change to her NRD. Shed wanted 
detailed information about the Consensus Fund to review what she termed the lifestyling 
risk. It wasnt until 20 May 2020 that she got the information she needed and had been 
constantly requesting to allow her to make an informed decision. 
But by then it was too late. She found the fund included 73.9% in equities. Shed been told 
she was in a lifestyling profile which automatically moves investments into a lower risk funds 
as she approached her NRD. But her fund had suffered significant falls. When shed tried to 
contact Scottish Widows its offices were closed and there was no information about how to 
get touch. Her fund value was £70,782 on 20 May 2020 when she switched. Scottish 
Widows had failed her at a crucial point and should offer more realistic compensation for the 
loss of £12,172 shes suffered. One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He issued his view on 30 April 
2021. He didnt think Scottish Widows needed to take any action. His main points were: 
At the time, Scottish Widows was experiencing an increase in the volume of 
enquiries it had to deal with, coupled with staff shortages. Many businesses had to 
adopt the way they worked and it was understandable that the usual service was 
difficult to provide at a time with so many challenges. It wouldnt be fair to ask 
Scottish Widows to pay more compensation. 
Pension matters could be confusing but, as a provider, Scottish Widows wont give 
advice, only information to enable an informed choice. The investigator thought 
Scottish Widows had done that.  
Mrs Ls concerns that her pension fund had been mismanaged centred on lifestyling. 
That hadnt happened and so Mrs Ls fund had remained invested in line with a 
medium attitude to risk. Shed got in touch in February 2018 to change her NRD. 
Scottish Widows letter of 20 February 2018 confirmed the change but also said that 
Mrs L hadnt indicated if she wanted the timings of the lifestyling investment switches 
to be aligned to her new NRD. And that she should call Scottish Widows as soon as 
possible to confirm how shed like lifestyling to be managed. And that, in the 
meantime, the timing of the fund switches remained aligned to her old NRD. 
Scottish Widows had written again in September 2019 to reiterate the position. 
Scottish Widows couldnt give financial advice but Mrs L had instructed an adviser 
whod requested details of her plan which Scottish Widows had provided four days 
later. Mrs L had also later spoken with Pension Wise. And in August 2018 Scottish 
Widows had explained lifestyling and Mrs L had apparently said it wasnt something 
she wanted to consider. 
It was possible that remaining in her original fund had contributed to the losses shed 
suffered but that wasnt due to poor management on Scottish Widows part. It 
couldnt make changes without Mrs Ls authorisation and had done all it should  it 
had made Mrs L aware of the steps she might need to take and had provided all 
requested information. 
Mrs L didnt accept the investigators view. She maintained that Scottish Widows had failed 
to manage her pension fund correctly. And that shed spent over two years asking for a 
single page of key information about how her pension funds were invested which she only 
finally got in May 2020. She said when shed asked for information about lifestyling shed 
been bombarded with general information. She questioned if our evaluation was unbiased. 
She said that five months after shed logged her complaint with us shed received an 
unscheduled brief telephone call and had been expected to answer questions from memory. 
Our analysis had been based on a file provided by Scottish Widows, against whom the 
complaint had been made. 
Mrs L later added that the £50 compensation offered was an acknowledgement that Scottish 
Widows had been in the wrong but the amount was an insult. She said Scottish Widows had 
been the only company that hadnt contacted her to advise how she could reach them. She 
was only three months away from her NRD. She couldnt get through on the three telephone 
numbers and there was no option to leave a message. Increased call volumes and staff 
shortages arent a valid excuse. Scottish Widows has a duty of care and she pays a fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything even if I havent referred to each and every point thats been 
made. Having done so, I dont disagree with the views reached by the investigator and the reasons he gave. Im sorry Mrs L is so unhappy with the service she received from Scottish 
Widows. I know shell be disappointed that Im unable to uphold her complaint but Ive 
explained my reasons below.  
Problems arose after Mrs L changed her NRD, bringing it forward by five years. Ive looked 
first at how Scottish Widows dealt with that change. Ive then considered the lifestyling 
options and what information Mrs L was given about that. Ive also looked at what 
information she had about the Consensus Fund. And Ive thought about what shes said 
about Scottish Widows mismanaging the Fund in March 2020 and possibly beyond that. Ive 
also considered what Mrs L has said about not being able to contact Scottish Widows easily 
or at all in March 2020.   
First, and to clarify its role, Scottish Widows is Mrs Ls pension provider. And its fund 
managers are responsible for managing the investment funds that Mrs Ls pension invests 
in. Scottish Widows isnt Mrs Ls adviser and so cant give advice to her or be proactive in 
terms of acting without her instructions. But Scottish Widows has a duty to provide 
information to enable Mrs L to make her own informed decisions (with or without the 
assistance of a financial adviser). 
Mrs L told Scottish Widows in February 2018 that she wanted to change her NRD. Her 
request was acknowledged by Scottish Widows on 20 February 2018 and apparently 
actioned. But it wasnt until 30 September 2019, over 18 months later, that Scottish Widows 
wrote to Mrs L with an endorsement formally recording the change.
 
Theres also the letter in January 2020 saying Scottish Widows had fixed an error. The 
letter said Mrs L had been told the change couldnt be made straightaway. But I havent seen 
anything to support that  the February 2018 and September 2019 letters didnt mention any 
delay in actioning Mrs Ls request. It also seems that Scottish Widows shouldve told Mrs L, 
if she changed her NRD, that she wouldnt be able to change it again. 
That omission didnt impact on Mrs L as she wasnt looking to change her NRD again. But I 
can understand if she found the letters somewhat confusing. Shes indicated that the 
January 2020 letter did cause her some concern. Particularly in terms of what it said about 
her having said she wanted the lifestyle investment strategy to continue to be based on her 
original NRD. I think what happened about lifestyling following the change to her NRD is 
central to her complaint. Ive looked at the information she was given about lifestyling and, in 
particular, how it worked with her new NRD. 
I think Scottish Widows letter of 20 February 2018 was clear. It said, Mrs L hadnt, when she 
notified her new NRD, told Scottish Widows if she wanted the lifestyling investment switches 
to be realigned with her new NRD. And that she should get in contact to confirm. In the 
meantime theyd continue to be based on her old NRD. 
Theres also the telephone call in August 2018 when, after lifestyling had been explained, 
Mrs L apparently didnt request that was changed to her new NRD. 
Scottish Widows letter of 30 September 2019 revisited the subject. Again I think the letter 
was clear. It said Mrs Ls investments continued to align to 1 June 2025 (her original NRD). 
And that, as her new NRD was earlier than that, her investments may not have entirely 
moved into lower risk funds by the time she reached her new NRD. 
I know the letter said Mrs L didnt need to do anything. But I dont think that can be read in 
isolation. Earlier on the letter had said that Mrs L should get in contact if shed prefer to 
realign her lifestyle target date to her new NRD. It was only if she was happy with the position as set out  that the switching process remained aligned to her old NRD  that she 
didnt need to do anything. If that wasnt what she wanted, then shed need to get in contact. 
And the same message  that the lifestyle switches continued to be based on her old NRD  
was given in the January 2020 letter. I note that letter said Mrs L had told Scottish Widows 
that she wanted her lifestyle investment strategy to continue to be based on her old NRD. 
Im not sure (unless what Mrs L said during the telephone call in August 2018 amounted to 
that and even then it doesnt seem she confirmed that in writing) that was the case. It seems 
to me it was more that Mrs L didnt give an instruction that she wanted lifestyling to be 
aligned to her new NRD.  
But I think the information given to Mrs L about lifestyling was sufficiently clear for her to 
know the investment switches remained aligned to her old NRD and so the changes that 
would normally start to be made as she approached her NRD wouldnt be complete by the 
time she reached her new NRD. 
In fact it seems, from Scottish Widows letter of 19 May 2020, that the switches wouldnt start 
to be made until three years before NRD. So no changes wouldve been made to her 
investments by the time Mrs L reached her new NRD. I dont think the earlier letters 
mentioned the three year period. But the annual statements did. See, for example, the 
statement sent under cover of Scottish Widows letter of 2 November 2018. On page 4, 
immediately underneath where the value of the plan was shown and the investment fund, it 
said that switching to the Cash fund would start three years from Mrs Ls retirement age. 
Given what shed been told, I think Mrs L shouldve known that would be her old NRD.
All in all, I dont think Mrs Ls complaint about a lack of clear information about lifestyling can 
be upheld. Nor can I say that Scottish Widows, in the absence of an instruction from Mrs L, 
shouldve realigned the lifestyling changes to the new NRD. I dont see any issue with the 
tone of Scottish Widows letters or that they were demanding or threatening. 
Ive next considered the information about the Consensus Fund which Mrs L was invested in 
until May 2020 when she switched to a cash based fund. Mrs L has said it wasnt until she 
got the email in May 2020 that she was able to access information about the Fund. The 
email did give detailed instructions as to how to access online information about the Fund. 
Although information about providers funds is generally available on line, it isnt always 
straightforward to access. For example, there may be several series for a fund and it can be 
difficult to know what the correct one is. 
But from what Ive seen, Scottish Widows had earlier provided information about the Fund  
it sent fund fact sheets in August and September 2018. And the email sent on 16 August 
2018 confirmed that it was Series 3. 
It seems that Mrs L may not have received some of what Scottish Widows sent her. But her 
correct email address appears to have been used. And information seems to have been sent 
by way of confirmation of what had been discussed over the telephone so the information 
would have been given to Mrs L during the call anyway. 
I note she says she never got the letter dated 6 March 2020. But it was correctly addressed 
and I dont see any reason to doubt that it was sent, even if there was some problem, 
outside of Scottish Widows control, which meant it didnt get delivered. I dont agree with 
what Mrs L has said about the content of the letter. Im not sure that the copy letter that has 
been produced replicates the version and layout of the original.I dont think it would have been too difficult for Mrs L to have got information about the Fund 
online. I note she also seems to have had an adviser at some point. I think she had enough 
information to check the makeup of the Consensus Fund before May 2020. 
When she did look into the Fund further, perhaps prompted by the falls in fund shed 
experienced, she was unhappy to find that the Fund contained what she considered to be a 
high proportion of equity investment. But I dont agree with what shes said about the level of 
equity meaning that the Fund is high risk or higher risk than a medium risk rating.
 
Equity investment covers a broad range and the actual risk will vary depending on the 
particular underlying investment(s). Buying shares in a small, niche and unlisted companies 
may be far riskier than investing in well known blue chip corporations with a proven track 
record. The equity investment in the Fund is also balanced by the lower risk assets. In 
addition to the 73.9% holdings in equities, 13.5% was held in bonds and 9.8% in cash. That 
isnt out of line with what Id expect to see. A medium risk fund provides the opportunity for 
growth. But fund values can fall if the stock markets experience volatility as was the case in 
the early part of 2020.
The stock market was at a peak in mid February 2020 before the emerging pandemic 
triggered falls in share prices. Thats reflected in Mrs Ls fund value  it fell from £82,954 in 
January 2020 to £69,999 in March 2020 before recovering somewhat to £70,782 in May 
2020. But a fall in value doesnt necessarily evidence mis management. The pandemic was 
unprecedented and its effects couldnt have been foreseen. What happened to the 
Consensus Fund was mirrored by similar investments offered by other providers. I cant say 
that the Fund was mismanaged or that Scottish Widows is responsible for £12,172 loss that 
Mrs L suffered because her fund value fell in March 2020 and only partly recovered before 
she switched to cash. 
When the pandemic emerged Mrs L wanted to discuss protecting her fund from further falls 
by switching into cash. Scottish Widows accepted that Mrs L may have had difficulty in 
contacting it in March 2020 and offered £50 compensation. I accept shed have been worried 
and wanted to speak to someone at Scottish Widows. But, on the other hand, I agree with 
what the investigator said about there being many challenges at the time with businesses 
having to adapt how they worked to deal with what was an unprecedented situation. I also 
note Mrs L wasnt financially disadvantaged. If shed have actioned a fund switch in March 
2020 shed have missed out on the partial recovery her fund had made by May 2020. 
More recently Mrs L has said that she had a problem in August 2021 when she wanted to 
make a withdrawal from her fund. Shed taken a partial encashment from her plan in July 
2020 and in 2021 she wanted to make a further withdrawal which she discussed with 
Scottish Widows. Its letter of 5 August 2021 said Mrs L wanted to take a partial encashment 
of £13,770 net from her plan. Scottish Widows had deducted £18,180.81 to pay Mrs L 
£13,770 after deduction of emergency tax. 
Mrs L says that wasnt what had been agreed. Shed expected to receive £13,770 with 
£4,410 paid in tax which shed have been able to reclaim in full. Instead, £3,061 was 
retained in her pension fund with tax of £1,349 paid to HMRC. When shed queried it with 
Scottish Widows she was told shed need to contact HMRC. She did but it couldnt explain 
how Scottish Widows had arrived at the figure for tax of £1,349. Mrs L says she was left with 
having to reclaim that sum plus £3,061 less in her bank account to live on for a year. 
We asked Scottish Widows about what had happened. It told us the issue had been 
addressed and provided a copy of its letter dated 13 September 2021 to Mrs L. That said an 
additional £2,754.80 would be paid to Mrs L. Shed got in total a net amount of £16,524.80, made up of tax free cash of £4,590 plus a taxable amount of £13,770 on which £1,835.20 
tax had been taken. 
I hope that put things right for Mrs L. If it didnt and/or if she wants to complain about what 
happened, shell need to raise it as a fresh complaint with Scottish Widows. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L but for the reasons Ive explained Im unable to uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman