DRN-2255508
The complaint
Mr T complains that Swinton Insurance Group Limited provided poor customer service to 
him when administering his new motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T applied for the policy online in November 2019. He didnt declare an incident that had 
occurred in August 2019, and he said he had nine years no claims discount (NCD). When 
Swinton checked the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database (CUE) it noted that the 
previous insurer had recorded the August 2019 incident on it  and that the claim was still 
open. Swinton asked Mr T to call it and to provide proof of the NCD. It didnt know the NCD 
was earned by Mr Ts wife, and therefore wasnt valid for the new policy.
When Mr T first called Swinton, he spoke to advisor L. At that point he described the August 
2018 incident and said it wasnt his fault. He agreed to send in proof of NCD. Based on what 
hed said, advisor L told him the premium would remain as previously quoted. 
Mr T was told by email shortly afterwards that the policy was to be cancelled. He called 
Swinton again and spoke to advisor S. She said advisor L hadnt amended the record 
properly. He hadnt noted that the claim was still open, which meant it had to be treated as a 
fault claim - even if Mr T wasnt to blame for it. With a fault claim (plus no reduction for a 
valid NCD) the premium rose substantially. 
Mr T was horrified by the size of the increase and the misinformation from Swinton. He 
asked for two weeks grace to sort out the issue with his previous insurer. A manager advised 
Mr T that wasnt possible. But he gave Mr T the option of cancelling the policy himself if he 
didnt want to pay the increase for the current one being amended. Mr T was very unhappy 
with the options given to him and about how the manager had handled the call. He decided 
to leave the policy in place and wait for a refund. 
 
In response to Mr Ts complaint, Swinton said that as soon as it got proof from his previous 
insurer on 20 December 2019 that the claim had been closed as non-fault, it updated the 
policy. It refunded Mr T by deducting the sum hed overpaid from his remaining monthly 
premium payments. Swinton said advisor L should have told Mr T about the discrepancy 
between the details hed provided and those on the CUE database. It offered him £50.
 
Mr T told us he wanted a full apology from Swinton, plus fair compensation. He said hed lost 
eight hours work dealing with the issue, hadnt known whether he was insured or not, and 
had suffered severe stress and anger at having to deal with the matter himself. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ts complaint. She noted that Mr T had given the 
wrong details to Swinton and that advisor L had based his advice on that. She said Swinton 
later gave Mr T options for dealing with the situation and had offered him £50. So she didnt 
think Swinton had acted unreasonably. Mr T said the investigator had only dealt with one 
issue. He said she hadnt considered that Swintons advisors had put forward a number of 
courses of action which were inconsistent. He said she hadnt addressed Swintons lack of 
empathy and its failure to recognise his vulnerability as a customer.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the initial errors and their impact
Mr T accepts that he didnt mention the claim in August 2019 online and that the nine years 
NCD couldnt be used on a policy taken out in his name. The original price quoted for the 
premium included a reduction for the NCD - and unfortunately, advisor L didnt note that the 
CUE record was showing an open claim from August 2019.
Had advisor L entered an open claim on the policy, and had he not included the NCD, the 
premium would have increased hugely  just as it did later - at that point. That would still 
have been a shock for Mr T. He could have looked for a policy elsewhere, although with an 
open claim and no NCD, he may not have found one at a much better price. Mr T would 
have been able to contact his previous insurer earlier, to check on the closure of the claim. 
But that wouldnt have meant the claim was closed any earlier, as the insurer was waiting for 
payment from a third party - which was outside its control. 
Alternatively, had advisor L given Mr T the right advice (after amending the record correctly) 
Mr T may well have made the same decision he made later on. He may have retained the 
policy, paid the increased premium instalments and waited for a refund. I think that option 
would have been unpalatable at any stage for Mr T, as he knew he wasnt to blame for the 
accident. But the increase in premium was also due to Mr T not having nine years NCD, as 
hed declared online. If the policy had been rated from the start with zero NCD, I think its 
likely to have led to a very substantial rise in the premium, even without the open claim.
  
In my opinion, the major difference it would have made had Mr T been advised accurately at 
the start would have been that hed have saved some time in not having to make so many 
calls to Swinton later on. From what Ive seen, the calls took around two to three hours. I 
think some of them would have been made anyway, as I think Mr T would still have disputed 
the options and challenged Swinton about the process. 
other concerns
Mr T says part of the stress he faced was the result of not knowing whether he was insured 
and whether he could continue using his car in his self-employed role. But I dont think 
Swinton gave Mr T reason to think he may not be insured. When he raised a concern about 
the issue, Swinton made it clear hed remain insured unless he chose to cancel the policy, or 
did nothing, in which case Swinton / the insurer would cancel it, on a specified date.
Mr T also says he was angry and faced severe stress because he had to manage the 
situation himself. I dont think there was any way around that. In one call, Mr T told the 
advisor he shouldnt have to do all the chasing. He queried why Swinton wasnt checking for 
updates on CUE and passing it on. The advisor told him it was for his insurer to change the 
record and then advise Mr T. I think that was right, but Mr T wasnt happy with the advisors 
view. I think its very unfortunate that his previous insurer wasnt able to close the claim more 
quickly. Mr T had to press the insurer to confirm it as non-fault and pursue the claims 
closure. That took time and effort on his part, but I think it was for Mr T to deal with the 
insurer, as it wasnt Swintons role.  Mr T says Swinton put forward different courses of action that were inconsistent and that it 
made no attempt to ensure coverage was suitable. I cant see what Mr T means by the cover 
not being suitable. Swinton only administered the policy he bought. It wasnt an advised sale, 
and as far as I can see, the only dispute about the policy was the cost of it  when the NCD 
was removed and the open claim was added. Mr T was told that he could cancel it and seek 
cover elsewhere or retain it and wait for a refund. Im not sure what else Swinton could have 
said or done in the circumstances. 
In terms of inconsistency, the advice Mr T got from advisor L was completely different to that 
provided by advisor S. And Mr T was told the wrong amount for his future premium 
payments in another call. I dont think there were other inconsistencies in the advice given by 
Swintons advisors.
poor service in the calls
Having listened to all the calls, I think its fair to say that some of them were contentious. In 
one call, Mr T was unhappy with Swinton as hed sent it an email from his previous insurer 
stating the claim was non-fault, yet it hadnt amended the policy. The advisor said that was 
because the insurer had also said it was waiting for a third-party payment in order to close 
the claim. The policy couldnt be amended until that happened. Mr T said Swinton was 
refusing to accept the evidence in front of it. Although the advisor tried to explain the 
situation, Mr T didnt think he was listening and so he ended the call. But I dont think the 
advisor handled the call badly or said anything to Mr T that wasnt correct.  
Mr T told the investigator the impact on him of being told by Swinton that his premium had 
tripled was huge. Naturally, it  would have come as a great shock to him (or to any 
consumer). But it wouldnt have happened if Swinton had the right details from the start. And 
I cant see what Swintons advisor could have done to make a very unwelcome message 
easier to hear. I dont think Swinton had any reason to consider that Mr T was a vulnerable 
consumer, and that extra care should be taken in delivering the news. I think he reacted to it 
as would be expected. I think the same applies to other calls where Mr T wasnt happy with 
the advice he was given. I dont think Swintons service during calls was lacking in general.    
Mr T was particularly unhappy with the way one of Swintons managers dealt with part of one 
of the calls. Mr T had said he wanted the policy left for a couple of weeks (with the wrong 
details on it) to give the other insurer time to close the claim. The manager said that wasnt 
possible. He told Mr T that should he have an accident during that time, the insurer may not 
pay the claim if the wrong details were left on the policy. I think it was in Mr Ts interests for 
those facts to be set out, even though it must have been frustrating for him to hear that his 
preferred course of action wasnt viable.
The manager also said it was an option for Mr T to cancel the policy. Mr T took that to mean 
an immediate cancellation, which would have left him away from home, with an uninsured 
car. Understandably, he was upset by that prospect. But the manager was only pointing out 
that Mr T may wish to cancel after looking around for other cover. He expressed it as an 
option, as Mr T had objected to the policy being amended. I think the manager made it clear 
that Mr T wouldnt be asked for a payment right after a policy amendment, but that the 
monthly premiums (starting with the one due in a few weeks time) would increase.     
Up to that point, I think the call was handled adequately by the manager. He then offered to 
give Mr T his complaint reference number if he would wait on hold for a moment. I can see 
why the manager made the offer, and I think it was an attempt to be helpful. But by this 
point, Mr T had been on the call with advisor S and the manager for well over an hour (from 
his workplace) and he wasnt happy with the outcome. I think Mr T was exasperated by the general situation when he raised his voice to say he had no time to go on hold. In response, 
the manager told him there was no need to shout. Mr T was very upset by that. 
In the circumstances, I dont think the managers comment was helpful. It could only have 
inflamed the situation. I think the manager should have realised that Mr Ts raised voice was 
an indicator of the stress he was feeling. Mr T told the manager why he objected to his 
comment. And he pointed out that there could be very serious consequences for a 
vulnerable customer whose vulnerability wasnt recognised. 
Mr T didnt say he was a vulnerable consumer, and I dont think it came across in the call (or 
in any other call) that it might be the case. What was clear was that he was angry and 
frustrated with what he saw as Swintons poor service. I think its quite common for 
consumers who arent vulnerable to raise their voice if theyre in that situation. The manager 
asked if there was anything else he could do for Mr T, who said he wanted further details to 
be emailed to him and for a copy of the call recordings.   
I dont think there was anything inappropriate in any of the other calls, and in my opinion, 
advisor S showed empathy towards Mr T. She apologised on Swintons behalf twice and 
said she didnt want to leave Mr T in a position where he was suffering stress. She also 
offered to try to get his complaint expedited. Most consumers want a fast response to their 
complaint, as theres always a chance it will be upheld. But Mr T thought dealing with it 
quickly would benefit Swinton rather than him. I dont think that was the case. 
From advisor Ss point of view, it was possible that Mr Ts complaint may be upheld. If so, he 
may have received compensation as a result of that  and it would have been better for him 
to have got it sooner rather than later. I dont think her motivation was to get more money for 
Swinton quickly, which is what Mr T assumed.
 
my conclusions
I have no doubt that Mr T experienced a good deal of stress whilst the claim and the policy 
details were being sorted out. But I dont think most of it was caused by Swinton. 
In my opinion, Mr Ts confusion about the NCD and his initial omission of the August 2019 
incident were largely responsible for what followed. The delayed settlement of the claim by 
the other insurer increased the stressfulness of the situation. So did the insurers raising of 
Mr Ts expectations, in not explaining to him that it would make no difference to his new 
premium that the claim was non-fault until it could close the claim on CUE. That led to further 
frustration for Mr T, who seems to have blamed Swinton for it.   
Undoubtedly, advisor L made an error in not picking up on the CUE record and that caused 
confusion. But Mr T would always have been faced with a premium that was much higher 
than he could ever have expected. That wasnt due to the advisors error, but to the open 
claim and the fact that the previous policy was based on a nine-year NCD reduction. The 
size of the premium was decided by the insurer, not by Swinton - and I think Mr T is likely to 
have faced a high premium from other insurers, too. 
Mr Ts longest conversation by far was with advisor S. I think she dealt with him in a 
professional manner and did all she could to offer Mr T options and assist him. I think her 
manager could have handled the call better. But I dont think that example of a lack of 
empathy in itself is sufficient to merit an award of compensation. I think in general Swintons 
advisors were courteous and gave the right advice. But the options they offered Mr T werent 
what he expected or wanted. That was bound to add to his view that Swinton didnt hear his 
concerns or try to deal with them.   In my opinion, it was fair for Swinton to offer Mr T £50 in recognition of advisor Ls error. As I 
dont think Swinton acted unreasonably, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman