DRN-3089325
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt with 
the voluntary termination of her hire purchase agreement with them. 
What happened
On 13 October 2017 Mrs A was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. She paid a deposit of £3,499.72, and the agreement was for £28,711.18 over 49 
months, with 48 monthly payments of £379.00, and a final optional payment of £14,772.50 if 
she wanted to keep the car. 
Mrs A said that her income had been affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, and 
that she was struggling to maintain the payments to the agreement. In September 2020 she 
called VWFS to ask how much it would cost to terminate the agreement. And VWFS said 
there was £1,472.39 still to pay to bring the total payments to 50% of the agreement  the 
voluntary termination point. 
Mrs A called VWFS again in October 2020, to discuss the voluntary termination. VWFS told 
her that she would still need to pay £1,093.39. But when asked, werent able to tell Mrs A 
how many more payments shed need to make to reach the voluntary termination point. But 
Mrs A decided to terminate the agreement at this point. 
Mrs A was unhappy with the service shed received, and she complained to VWFS. She said 
shed have had to pay the same amount whether she terminated the agreement early or not, 
so she couldve kept the car for a further few months. VWFS acknowledged they shouldve 
been able to tell Mrs A how many months she still had to pay before the voluntary 
termination point was reached. They apologised and offered £300 compensation. But Mrs A 
was unhappy with VWFS response and brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said VWFS shouldve been able to tell Mrs A how many more months she 
had to pay to reach the voluntary termination point. But he also thought, as Mrs A was 
struggling to maintain payments, terminating the agreement wouldve given her the 
opportunity to arrange an affordable repayment plan for the outstanding amount. And he 
said that terminating early hasnt cost Mrs A any more than continuing to make payments for 
another few months would have. 
So, taking everything into consideration, the investigator thought that the £300 VWFS had 
already offered Mrs A was reasonable, and he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
VWFS accepted the investigators view, but Mrs A didnt. She said that the loss of the car a 
few months early was devastating for her, as she needed it for her work. And she says she 
lost earnings as a result. So shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs A was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. So my decision will concentrate on what I 
consider to be a reasonable remedy in the circumstances.
Mrs A says that she couldnt afford the monthly payments. But shes also saying that, had 
she known she could keep the car for a few more months, then hand the car back with 
nothing more to pay, this is what she wouldve done. As this wouldve meant she could 
continue to earn money during that period. And she believes she was charged more money 
for handing the car back early, than she wouldve been if she kept the car and continued with 
the payments. 
Ive seen the original agreement which Mrs A signed on 12 October 2017. This says she had 
the right to terminate the agreement early. And if she did, VWFS will then be entitled to the 
return of the goods and to half the total amount payable under this agreement, that is 
£18,237.11. If you have already paid at least this amount plus any overdue instalments and 
you have taken reasonable car of the goods, you will not have to pay any more.
The Total Amount Payable under the agreement included the deposit, payment, fees and 
interest, and was £36,474.22. So the voluntary termination amount was 50% of the Total 
Amount Payable. This is in line with how an agreement like this should operate.
Ive listened to the call that took place on 29 September 2020. Mrs A explained that she was 
selling her business and relocating, so was looking to hand back the car. VWFS explained 
she had the right to voluntarily terminate the agreement, but that she hadnt paid enough to 
be able just hand back the car with nothing more to pay  she still needed to pay £1,472.39. 
Mrs A didnt ask how many more months she still needed to pay to be able to hand the car 
back with nothing more to pay during this call.
Mrs A called VWFS again on 16 October 2020, and Ive also listened to that call. Mrs A 
explained she was now struggling to make the payments, and she discussed handing the 
car back. VWFS told her she still needed to pay £1,093.39 to reach the voluntary termination 
point. Mrs A asked, at what point would I not have that £1,093.39 to pay? But VWFS 
couldnt provide her with a date.
Mrs A also specifically asked that, if she paid another three payments, would this mean she 
had nothing further to pay. VWFS explained that, because of the interest, it didnt necessarily 
mean that was the case. So they couldnt say how many more payments were needed.Mrs A was aware from the conversations shed had with VWFS of how much she would 
need to pay if she handed the car back. And she was also aware that she would need to 
continue to make payments for an unspecified number of months before she could hand the 
car back with nothing more to pay. Based on the difference between the figures Mrs A was 
given in September and October 2020 being £379  the amount of the monthly payment  
Mrs A wouldve reasonably known that she needed to pay around the equivalent of three 
monthly payments before she could hand the car back with nothing further to pay. 
This would mean her paying an additional £1,137 in monthly payments, as well as having to 
continue to tax and insure the car, and make sure it remained roadworthy, for a further three 
months. So I cant agree with Mrs A that handing the car back when she did cost her more 
that keeping the car for a further three months would have.
Whats more, Mrs A had told VWFS that she was selling her business; that she was 
struggling to keep up with the monthly repayments; and she asked them if it was possible to 
refinance the payments over a longer term, to reduce the amount. And, to the best of my 
knowledge, the £1,093.39 still remains outstanding.
Because of this, I think its more likely than not that Mrs A wouldnt have been able to 
maintain the payments to VWFS for a further three months. Which wouldve resulted in her 
account going into arrears, and there still being an amount that needed to be paid when the 
car was handed back. 
Mrs A has also explained the impact of handing the car back early. But it was her choice to 
hand it back, VWFS didnt repossess it. So, she wouldve handed the car back knowing the 
likely impact this would have, and this wouldve formed part of her overall decision. So I dont 
think VWFS were responsible for any loss of earnings resulting from Mrs As decision.
Given the above, Im satisfied that the £300 offer made by VWFS was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. And its for Mrs A to now decide whether to accept this or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman