DRN-4254391
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) and the decision to 
decline the claim they made on their travel insurance policy, after they missed a flight home.
Mrs W has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, Ill refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mrs W or Mr 
W as Mrs W throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs W held an Annual Multi Trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by IPA. On 17 March 
2023, Mrs W and Mr W were due to fly home from their abroad destination and they arrived 
at the airport two hours before their flight was due to take off. Unfortunately, due to strike 
action taken by border agents at the airport, Mrs W and Mr W were unable to pass through 
border control to make their flight, which took off on time. So, Mrs W and Mr W incurred 
unexpected costs, which included overnight accommodation and alternative flights, in order 
to ensure they made it home. And they made a claim on the policy provided by IPA to 
recoup these costs.
But IPA declined Mrs Ws claim. They thought that, as Mrs W and Mr W had reached the 
airport on time and the delay was instead caused by a long queue within the airport itself, 
there wasnt an insured peril under the policy they provided. So, they didnt think they should 
reimburse the costs Mrs W and Mr W incurred. Mrs W was unhappy about this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Mrs W referred to the Missed departure section of the policy, which she felt stated that she 
should be covered for accommodation and travel expenses incurred as a result of strike or 
industrial action. So, as shed been unable to board her flight due to delays caused by strike 
action, she thought IPA had acted unfairly when declining the claim and she wanted this 
decision to be reversed. IPA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought 
they had acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs W held. So, 
they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs W remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought IPA had 
declined the claim fairly, as they didnt think Mrs Ws situation was covered under the policy 
terms and conditions, noting she had arrived at the airport, and so the departure point, on 
time. And because of this, they didnt think IPA needed to do anything more.
Mrs W didnt agree. She thought the departure point was the point at which she boarded the 
aircraft, rather than the entrance of the airport itself. And so, she thought the circumstances 
of her claim met the terms and conditions listed within Missed departure section of the 
policy. Our investigator considered Mrs Ws comments but didnt agree, stating their belief 
the departure point was the airport, rather than doors to the aircraft. So, their view remained 
unchanged. Mrs W continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs W and Mr W. I dont 
doubt the upset they felt, and the inconvenience they were caused, when they realised they 
had missed their flight home while abroad. And I appreciate Mrs W and Mr W took out the 
insurance policy with IPA on the belief it would assist them both practically and financially in 
situations such as the one they found themselves in. So, when Mrs W submitted a claim for 
the reimbursement of the expenses they incurred, and IPA declined it, I can understand the 
confusion and frustration they wouldve felt, considering they missed their flight due to strike 
action they had no control over.
But for me to say IPA should do something more, such as reverse their original claim 
decision and accept it, I first need to be satisfied IPA have done something wrong. So, Id 
need to be satisfied IPA failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs W held 
when declining the claim. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id need to be satisfied IPA 
acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs W held. And these explain under the 
section headed Missed departure that IPA will pay you up to £1,000 for reasonable 
additional accommodation and travel expenses necessarily incurred in reaching your 
overseas destination or returning to your home, if you fail to arrive at the departure point in 
time to board the public transport on which you are booked to travel before going onto 
provide a list of reasons for a failure to arrive on time. These included strike or industrial 
action.
So, as Mrs W and Mr W missed their departure, and this was directly impacted by queues 
created by strike action, I can understand why they feel their claim should be accepted. I 
also understand Mrs Ws rationale about what she feels a departure point should be defined 
as.
In this situation, the term departure point isnt defined within the policy. So, in situations 
such as this, Ive had to think about what I think a reasonable definition is, based on the 
evidence available to me and the wording of the policy Mrs W held.
On this occasion, I can see within the Missed departure section it also includes a special 
condition which states you must allow enough time for the public transport or other transport 
to arrive on schedule and deliver you to the departure point.
So, as any public transport or other transport would deliver Mrs W and Mr W to the entrance 
of the airport itself, rather than through check in and any other queues within the airport 
facility, I think this makes it reasonably clear that, for the purposes of the policy Mrs W held, 
the departure point is intended to be the airport itself, rather than the point at which she and 
Mrs W were due to board the aircraft.
And because of this, I think the wording of the policy makes it reasonably clear that for there 
to be an insured event under the Missed departure section of the policy, there would 
needed to have been a delay in the journey to the airport, rather than inside the airport as it was on this occasion.
As Ive already set out above, Mrs W has confirmed and accepted she arrived at the airport 
around two hours before her flight was due to leave. And, that she believed this to be in time 
to board her flight in a usual situation, if there werent extreme queues within the airport 
itself.
So, while I do appreciate Mrs Ws failure to make her flight was caused by circumstances out 
of her control, I dont think any delays caused by strike action within the airport qualify as an 
insured event under the terms of the policy. Had there been strike action that had impacted 
Mrs Ws journey to the airport, and so the departure point, then I think this is the situation the 
policy was designed to cover. Because of this, I dont think I can say IPA have acted outside 
of the policy, or unfairly, when declining Mrs Ws claim. And so, I dont think they need to do 
anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs W was hoping for. And I appreciate this decision will 
leave Mrs W at a financial loss, which is something Ive considered at length. But for me to 
say IPA should cover Mrs Ws financial losses, I first have to be satisfied there is an insured 
event that is covered under the policy they provided, that Mrs W paid a premium for. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint about Inter 
Partner Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman