DRN-3074093
The complaint
The estate of Ms C complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
caused financial loss by requesting a grant of probate before releasing the proceeds of the 
late Ms Cs share dealing and ISA account.
Mr B acts on behalf of the estate of Ms C.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Our investigator didnt find that Hargreaves Lansdown had done anything wrong. Mr B on 
behalf of Ms Cs estate appealed. He reiterated his complaint that it was questionable 
whether the terms and conditions of the account were reasonable. He added that he felt it 
would in any event have been reasonable to waive the terms under the specific 
circumstances applicable here. These included the impact of Covid19 and the fact that Mr B 
had operated the account for several years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute as to the procedure for administering accounts when an account 
holder dies. The terms and conditions state:
 
A37  On your death we will continue to rely on these Terms. Your representatives      
should send us either the original or a certified copy of your death certificate. Where 
Accounts are held in joint names we will treat the survivor as the only person 
interested in any securities or monies and the Account will be re-registered into the 
name of the survivor, but in all other respects the Account will remain unchanged. 
Otherwise, on notification of death access to your Account will be frozen. Once we 
have received an original copy of the grant of probate your representatives will be 
able to sell or transfer your investments, but not buy investments.
However Hargreaves Lansdown does permit the sale of assets prior to receipt of the 
grant of probate once in receipt of the death certificate and declaration and 
inheritance form. This is explained in the Estates Application Pack which sets out the 
options for estates administering accounts following the death of an account holder. 
Nevertheless Hargreaves Lansdown lost the death certificate that was posted to 
them. They apologised, offered compensation of £150 and backdated the transaction 
to reflect the prices that would have been received when the initial instruction was 
placed. Thus no financial loss was incurred by the estate. I think that was fair.
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration, on behalf of the estate, when the proceeds were not 
released until the grant of probate was received. I accept too that the beneficiaries 
were therefore not able to reinvest at their preferred time due to a dip in the market.  
But I dont find that the policy condition is unusual or unreasonable. It follows I dont 
find that it was unfair of Hargreaves Lansdown to abide by the terms and conditions 
that had been agreed to.
I note Mr B suggested alternative options to Hargreaves Lansdown, and I accept that 
he was in a good position to do so having held power of attorney during Ms Cs 
lifetime. But for the reasons given it follows that I dont consider it was unfair for 
Hargreaves Lansdown not to implement any of these alternatives and to follow the 
policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms C 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman