DRN-3672106
The complaint
E complains that HCC International Insurance Company Plc trading as Tokio Marine HCC 
declined its claim and avoided its policy following storm damage to a property it owns.
As a director of E, Mr J has brought this complaint on Es behalf.
What happened
Mr J is a director of E, a property investment company. It had a property insurance policy for 
a property containing ten units that were rented out. The policy was underwritten by HCC. In 
February 2022 the property suffered damage following a storm and Mr J made a claim on 
behalf of E. The claim was initially accepted and a loss adjuster attended to inspect the 
damage. However following the visit he highlighted to HCC that the ground floor unit of the 
property contained a shop and wasnt owned by E.
Based on this HCC declined the claim and said it would avoid the policy (cancel it as if it 
never existed). As it said Mr J had said the insurance was for the whole property when he 
took it out and if it had known the ground floor was owned by someone else, it wouldnt have 
offered the policy. 
Mr J didnt think this was fair and complained. He said the claim had already been accepted 
and repairs were being discussed, so it didnt seem fair that the policy was now avoided. 
Further, he said that the shop had a different building number to the part of the building E 
owned, so he didnt agree that he had misrepresented when he took out the policy as he 
didnt have an insurable interest in the shop so wouldnt declare it was there.
HCC didnt uphold the complaint so Mr J brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that he agreed Mr J had made a misrepresentation and that HCC had followed the 
approach outlined in the relevant law. So thought it had acted fairly by avoiding the policy, 
but thought it should return the policy premiums paid.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators outcome. He said he felt hed met the obligations 
under the relevant law to provide a fair presentation of the risk. And as it isnt possible to 
insure something that you dont have an insurable interest in, then it would never have been 
possible for him to insure the ground floor shop, so the fact it wasnt mentioned is irrelevant. 
And he said this had no bearing on the claim for the storm damage to the wall. He asked for 
Es complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HCC has said that Mr J misrepresented when taking out the insurance for E, as he said that 
he wanted to insure the whole property and didnt declare that the ground floor was owned 
by someone else, so wouldnt be included on the insurance. It says that if it had known the 
correct information when the policy was taken out, it wouldnt have offered the cover to E. 
Under the Insurance Act 2015, when Mr J took out the policy for E he had a duty to make a 
fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the act 
says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to know, that 
would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what 
terms.
Ive considered whether I think Mr J made a fair presentation of the risk when he took out the 
policy. The statement of fact for the policy details information provided by the insured at the 
time the policy was taken out. It states as follows:
Is the whole property to be insured? Yes
While Mr J has pointed out the ground floor unit has a different street number than the part 
of the building he owns, I think it would still be clear that because it takes up the ground floor 
of the building, it would reasonably constitute part of the property. And the fact the insurer 
asked whether the whole property would be insured, shows that this is something it takes 
into account. I therefore think Mr J ought to have known it would influence its judgement 
when deciding whether to take on the risk. And as Mr J answered yes he didnt disclose 
everything he knew about the risk, so Im persuaded he did make a misrepresentation.
Under the Insurance Act in order for HCC to take any action, it has to show that there has 
been a qualifying misrepresentation. This means that it needs to show that if it had been 
given the correct information it would either have not offered the insurance policy at all or 
would have offered it on different terms.
HCC has provided a statement from its underwriters that confirms it wouldnt have offered 
the policy cover if the correct information about the shop on the ground floor had been 
provided when it was applied for. Im therefore satisfied there has been a qualifying 
misrepresentation as laid out in the Insurance Act.
Under the act, the remedy available also depends on whether the misrepresentation was 
reckless or deliberate or just careless. If it is considered careless then the insurer should 
refund the policy premiums paid. Whereas if its considered deliberate or reckless then the 
policy premiums can be retained by the insurer. 
From considering everything, I think Mr J made an honest mistake, so I consider the 
misrepresentation to have just been careless. I therefore agree with our investigator that 
HCC should refund the policy premiums to E if it hasnt done so already. 
Mr J has also said that HCC accepted the claim and entered into discussions about repairs 
and interim payments. And it shouldnt have done this if it was going to avoid the policy. 
While I understand this would have made the eventual decision more distressing I dont think 
HCC acted unfairly by progressing the claim. When it discovered the difference between the 
information declared on the policy and the make up of the building, it had to pass this to its 
underwriters, in order to find out what would have happened if the correct information would 
have been given. This took some time to get back and at this stage HCC didnt know if it 
would be able to proceed with the claim. But rather than delay matters it proceeded to 
progress the claim so that if the underwriters gave the go ahead it wouldnt be behind time. 
And I think thats a fair approach in the circumstances. I therefore wont ask it to do anything 
further in this regard.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I find HCC International Insurance Company Plc  trading as Tokio 
Marine HCC has acted fairly in the circumstances. It should refund E the policy premiums, if 
it hasnt done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Me J, on behalf of 
E, to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman