DRN-1659018
 
The complaint
Mr F says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1992. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a mortgage account Mr F took out in 1992. 
Mr F says he couldnt recall specific details about the sale, but he thinks he would have 
taken it out on advice from Nationwide.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with our adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
 
When I look at a complaint about the potential mis-sale of a PPI policy, I need to consider 
some overarching questions when reaching my decision. Those questions are:
 
 Did the business selling the PPI make their customer aware they had a choice in taking out 
the policy? 
 Whether the business gave specific personal advice to the consumer about the policy and 
its suitability for their needs. 
 Whether the business has given the customer enough and appropriate information to let 
them make an informed choice about whether to take the policy or not  and pointing out the 
main provisions of the policy and any limitations or exclusions.
 
If  after Ive considered those questions  I find that the PPI was mis-sold, I then have to go 
on to consider whether (and to what extent) the consumer has suffered loss or damage. And 
ultimately what amount would I consider fair compensation for that loss or damage. But in Mr 
Fs case, I dont need to reach a decision on the above questions as based on the 
information Ive been given, it doesnt look like Mr F has suffered any loss as a result of 
having the PPI.
 
I say that because it doesnt look like Mr F has paid any premiums for the policy, so he 
hasnt lost out. It appears the policy was free for 12 months and then it was cancelled before 
the free period had expired. So even if I was to decide the PPI had been mis-sold, Mr F 
wouldnt get any compensation. 
I have noted Mr Fs comments that he couldnt remember cancelling the PP so Nationwide 
should be able to assess the amount of PPI he probably paid. But if he had been paying for 
PPI, I would have expected to see PPI entries on his annual mortgage statements or from 
Nationwides internal screenshots to confirm this. However, neither Nationwide nor Mr F 
have produced evidence to show any payments were made.
 
In the light of all the available evidence I have seen, I am not going to uphold this complaint 
or any part of the complaint as I dont think there is any financial loss to pay back to Mr F.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman