DRN-3152137
The complaint
Mrs N complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) was irresponsible when lending to 
her in 2018. Mrs N is represented by Mr R. 
What happened
In 2018, RBS approved a loan application. It agreed to lend Mrs N £35,000 over eight years. 
The total repayable was £44,221.44.
Mrs N maintained payments for 18 months. Then she appointed Mr R to represent her, 
saying the loan wasnt affordable. In late 2019 Mr R began to complain to RBS but says he 
didnt receive a response. RBS says it sent two final response letters, the first in December 
2019 and the second in June 2020.
Mr R says at the point the loan was granted, Mr and Mrs Ns only income was the form of 
benefits and small pension. RBS was aware Mr Ns health was poor and it allowed all 
household debt to be consolidated by the loan. In addition to this, Mr R said Mrs Ns 
occupation was put as retired which might have led to the loan being wrongly approved. Mr 
R said RBS ought to have offered Mrs N more support than it had, given she was finding the 
repayments difficult and sadly, Mr N had passed away. 
RBS said the loan had been applied for in Mrs Ns sole name. Mr Ns income hadnt been 
considered when it was deciding if it was prepared to lend to Mrs N or not. But it said it had 
completed all the necessary checks before deciding to lend, and it was satisfied the loan 
was affordable. RBS says Mrs N satisfied lending and affordability checks which meant 
shed repay the loan over eight years at a £460.64 per month.
RBS acknowledged its handling of the complaint had, on occasion, fallen short of the 
standard it expected. It said its letters hadnt included all the information Mr R needed to 
identify Mrs Ns complaint and some calls hadnt been returned. But it didnt agree the 
lending was irresponsible. RBS said the loan interest rate was lower than the credit cards 
would have been. And by spreading the payments over a longer term, Mrs Ns monthly 
payments were reduced. RBS went on to say that since the loan was approved, Mrs N had 
maintained credit balances in her current account and had been saving regularly. 
Mrs N remained unhappy with RBS response and asked Mr R to refer her complaint to this 
service. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend RBS take any 
further action. Mrs N didnt agree, so this matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering whether Im satisfied RBS completed reasonable checks to 
ensure Mrs N could repay the loan. RBS needs to demonstrate it completed a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mrs Ns ability to sustainably repay a debt. This check 
must be borrower-focused and determine whether Mrs N could sustainably afford the 
borrowing (considering her specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she 
was to repay it.
Ive reviewed the checks RBS completed before approving Mrs Ns application. And having 
done so Im satisfied that theyre proportionate to the loan Mrs N took out. The check 
considered the credits made to Mrs Ns accounts for the six-month period before the loan 
was taken out. 
Ive also noted that in February 2018, just before Mrs N took the loan out, she made 
payments of over £640 to her various creditors. The monthly payment of the loan was 
£460.83. While this is not a small amount of her monthly income, it is significantly less than 
the amounts Mrs N had been paying to her various creditors. 
In addition to the lower monthly repayments of the loan, Ive also considered the interest rate 
on the loan was 6.03%. Whereas the interest being applied to Mrs Ns other accounts varied 
between 16.32% and 39.9%. It seems, therefore, that even though the loan ran over a 
longer period of time, there is a benefit of having interest rate significantly lower than the 
ones being charged by Mrs Ns creditors.
Ive considered Mr Rs suggestion RBS should not have lent to Mrs N because she was in 
receipt of benefits. However, I dont consider this is sufficient a reason to decline a loan. It 
was clear from reviewing Mrs Ns bank statements as far back as 2016 where her income 
came from and that this was not likely to change in the immediate future. I dont agree with 
Mr Rs suggestion that putting her occupation down as retired influenced the application in 
any way, nor have I seen any evidence of this. 
Ive also considered Mrs N managed the loan payments for almost 18 months before she 
started to experience difficulty in making her repayments. Mrs N has said the reason for this 
was that her husband had contributed to her payments. And while this may have been the 
case, NatWest has evidenced that the loan was approved on her income alone and was 
affordable based on that income.
However, Im of the view that if the loan had been truly unaffordable, I would have expected 
to see the repayments start to fail much sooner after it was taken out. This wasnt the case 
here. 
When the repayments started to fail in November 2019, RBS stopped the interest soon after, 
in February 2020. As well as freezing interest on the loan it agreed to hold any debt recovery 
action until we finished our investigation. I dont agree with Mr Rs suggestion RBS isnt 
taking reasonable steps to support Mrs N in repaying the loan.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest RBS acted unfairly or unreasonably in another way. 
Im satisfied RBS carried out appropriate and proportionate checks when assessing the 
application. I dont agree the loan was unaffordable when it was taken out  but I can see 
that Mrs Ns circumstances have changed since she did so. While Im very sorry to read of 
these, Im satisfied RBS has acted reasonably. Given RBS has put all debt recovery action 
on hold, Id encourage Mrs N and RBS to engage in an open dialogue to manage a 
repayment plan that is acceptable to all parties.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman