DRN-3568744
The complaint
Mr S complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) reversed a chargeback 
credit without contacting him appropriately.    
What happened
On 30 September 2021, two payments were made from Mr S account to a third-party 
merchant for £515.99 and £634.99. Mr S contacted JLFS to report these transactions as 
fraudulent as he did not recognise them. JLFS blocked and replaced the card involved and 
raised a chargeback claim for the amounts. It adjusted the account and credited back the 
£1,150.98 while it investigated.
JLFS generated a form that Mr S had to complete and sign in order to continue with the 
fraud claim and e-mailed this to the e-mail address it had on file for him. When it received no 
response, the disputed funds were re-debited from his account on 18 January 2022.
Mr S contacted JLFS to complain about the funds being re-debited. He explained that he 
never received the e-mail and this was not his preferred method of contact regardless. So, 
he wanted the funds to be credited to his account again. He referred his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said that JLFS had provided evidence 
showing that Mr S was sent the e-mail and there were time-stamps showing when the PDF 
document in the e-mail was accessed. And JLFS confirmed the document could only have 
been opened in the first place with a code sent to the mobile phone number registered to   
Mr Ss account. 
Mr S disagreed and reiterated that he had never received the e-mail. He felt the timing of 
when the e-mail was allegedly viewed seemed suspicious as four of them were around the 
same time in the morning. He has said that the IT department of JLFS has likely experienced 
a glitch that is affecting a number of other customers and that they could be using delivered 
receipts instead of read receipts as evidence he viewed the documents. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that JLFS has made an error in the circumstances and I do not 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why in more detail. 
The crux of this complaint centers around Mr S saying he did not receive the e-mail 
containing the chargeback claim form. Its important to note that there are strict timelines that 
card providers must adhere to under the chargeback scheme. This states that Mr S has   
120 days from the date of the transaction to raise a chargeback claim. 
Mr S has said that he did not receive the e-mail, that the evidence JLFS has provided is 
incorrect and this likely affects other customers. Hes also said that he should not have been 
sent the documents via e-mail anyway as that was not his preferred method of 
communication. 
Ive firstly considered Mr S comments that he should not have been e-mailed in the first 
place. Ive looked at the communication preferences on his customer profile and this lists 
one accepted method of communication as e-mail. Mr S has also confirmed that he 
sometimes receives e-mails relating to his account that he successfully receives. As he 
hasnt specifically said that he does not want to receive communication by e-mail and there 
appears to be no technical issues with him receiving them from JLFS, I dont think the bank 
has made an error in sending him communication by e-mail. In addition, JLFS has said that 
Mr S would have needed to input a code that was sent to his mobile phone number to 
access the PDF, so I therefore think this was a secure form of communication for what could 
possibly be a sensitive document. 
Mr S has consistently said that he did not receive the e-mail. I appreciate that Mr S is unable 
to provide evidence of this as it isnt possible to prove a negative. I have taken into 
consideration his testimony as well as the evidence provide by JLFS. 
As the document that was originally sent expired, it is no longer available for me to review as 
evidence. And I dont think this is unreasonable. But JLFS has been able to provide a 
breakdown of the document that was created on 22 November 2021 and explain how the 
process for the online form worked. This shows that the form was sent by JLFS and they 
used a third-party tool to help facilitate the electronic signing of the document and to help 
keep the process secure. Only one of the actual form was created but Mr S was sent daily 
reminders to sign the form with a link directing him to it until it timed out on 2 December 
2021.
The evidence provided shows the document was accessed and viewed by Mr S e-mail 
address on five separate occasions, and Im satisfied this is different to them evidencing the 
e-mail was delivered to Mr S successfully. Mr S has said he feels the timings of these 
viewings are suspicious and makes it look like an algorithm or a computer program is behind 
the document being opened. This is because four of the viewings occurred around the same 
time in the morning, whereas the other occurred in the late afternoon. Ive thought about this 
carefully. But I dont think the document being viewed at a similar time for some of the days 
means its more likely a computer program is falsely making it look like Mr S has opened the 
document. Instead, I think its more likely that the reminder to view the document was sent at 
the same time each day and Mr S has then opened the document as a result of the 
reminder. 
Ive thought about what Mr S has said about the evidence JLFS has provided being incorrect 
or falsified in some way. Having looked at the evidence, I see no reason to think it is not 
genuine and the JLFS IT department has confirmed there were no known issues at that time. 
I have to consider what I think is more likely in the circumstances. And, on balance, 
considering the evidence Ive been provided, I think its more likely that JLFS sent the correct 
document to Mr S correct e-mail address and that he had access to it in good time to 
respond and continue with the fraud claim. So, I cant agree that JLFS has made an error in 
the circumstances.   My final decision
I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman