DRN-3453111
The complaint
Mr W, acting on behalf of his business, T, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt provide 
adequate notification of the additional charges that were applied to the business accounts.
What happened
Mr W has explained that his business has four client accounts. He says that HSBC applied 
transaction charges from November 2021 which added thousands of pounds of costs. He 
says that there was no communication about the charges being applied apart from a notice 
of variation which he says HSBC said was sent in August 2021. Mr W says he doesnt have 
a copy of this but noticed a message in his secure messaging advising of changes to the 
account however he says this didnt highlight the impact the changes would have. Mr W says 
he only realised the extent of the costs when he received a statement of charges.  
Mr W says that he received a letter on 17 November that was dated 11 November 2021 
(which was after the charges became applicable) which says were here to help. If you 
choose not to accept these charges please get in touch with your relationship manager (if 
you have one) or your usual HSBC contact no later than 10th December 2021. Mr W says 
he called HSBC and was told there was nothing that could be done and that the charges had 
come into force. Mr W wants the charges applied to be refunded and noted he would be 
changing the business accounts as the new charges result in an unaffordable cost. 
HSBC issued a final response letter in November 2021. It said that a notice of variation was 
sent to T on 9 August 2021 about the updated pricing plans on some of its accounts. It said 
these charges couldnt be negotiated and didnt accept these should be refunded.
Our investigator said that HSBC had emailed on 9 August 2021 about the pricing changes 
and as this had been sent to the email address Mr W provided for this complaint he couldnt 
hold HSBC accountable for this not being received. He said it wasnt our role to tell HSBC 
what level of detail to include in its letters. 
Our investigator noted the letter Mr W had been sent dated 11 November and that Mr W had 
called following this asking for help as he didnt want to pay the charges. However, he was 
told it was too late and it couldnt help. Our investigator thought this had caused 
inconvenience and that HSBC could have been more helpful on the call. Because of this he 
suggested it pay compensation of £50. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that he received adequate notification 
of the severity of the changes he would have raised a complaint sooner and made 
arrangements to switch Ts accounts. He also didnt think it right that he was sent the letter 
dated 11 November offering help when this wasnt an option. He didnt accept that £50 was 
sufficient given he had been charged much more than that due to the new charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why the change in the pricing of the accounts held by T has caused a 
significant issue for the business. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to 
be satisfied that HSBC had either done something wrong by applying the charges or not 
given adequate notice of these.
I have looked at HSBCs business banking terms and conditions and these set out the 
changes that can be made, including changes to charges. The terms say that different notice 
periods will be given for different changes but in terms of changes to charges it says two 
months notice would be given. In this case HSBC has said it provided notice on 9 August 
and as the changes took effect from 1 November I find that it did provide adequate notice of 
the changes.  
I appreciate Mr Ws comments that he didnt receive the notification in August 2021. 
However, HSBC has provided evidence that the notification was sent. It has also confirmed 
this was sent by email and that the email address it holds is the same as the one provided 
with this complaint. Therefore, on balance, while I do not dispute Mr Ws comments that he 
didnt see the notification in August, I accept HSBC sent this.
The letter sent set out that changes were being made to some business accounts including 
changes to some pricing. It then provided information of where the details of the changes 
could be accessed. I have looked at this information and it sets out in detail the changes to 
the pricing. I appreciate Mr W thinks that the severity of the change meant that HSBC should 
have provided more details in its notification but having looked at the information I think this 
does provide the information about the changes and based on this it would have been 
possible for Mr W to have worked out what the impact on T would be.
So, while I understand Mr W says he wasnt given reasonable notification of the changes 
and the impact these would have on T, I find that HSBC did provide reasonable notice and 
information in advance of the changes taking effect.
Mr W has also complained that T received a letter dated after the introduction of the new 
charges offering to provide help but when he called HSBC he was told it was too late. I 
havent received a recording of this call and I find it reasonable to accept Mr Ws testimony 
about what he was told. Mr W has provided a copy of the letter he received dated 11 
November. This implies that help can be provided if T chose not to accept the charges. 
However, this wasnt the case when Mr W made the call and so I accept this caused some 
inconvenience. However, as the notification had been provided of the new charges I do not 
find this issue means the charges need to be refunded. Instead I agree it is reasonable that 
£50 is paid for the inconvenience this letter caused.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay compensation of £50 for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman