DRN-1611327
 
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr P. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. HSBC sold Mr P the policy 
at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sale took place about 25 years ago and so there are no documents surviving about the 
sale of the PPI. I also wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened 
so many years ago when the PPI started. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence 
when considering the case and trying to reach a fair decision. 
Ive considered what Mr P has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain 
why.
Mr P has said the PPI was added without his knowledge. However it wouldnt be fair for me 
to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where 
someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness 
requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago. It would be more usual for the PPI to have 
been mentioned in the documents at the time, and I think its more likely this is what 
happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice which Mr P probably agreed to, even if 
Mr P doesnt now remember it. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was 
added without Mr Ps consent. 
HSBC probably recommended the PPI to Mr P, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped pay 
the credit card bill if Mr P was off sick from work for a period, or was made redundant  and 
hes said he wasnt entitled to sick pay and didnt have savings. So the PPI was potentially 
useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any other reason why the 
recommendation was unsuitable.Mr P has said he wasnt told at the time he wouldnt have been covered if he became self-
employed; and that in fact about four years later he did become self-employed. However, I 
dont have any evidence he was thinking hed probably become self-employed in 1995. And, 
even if he was, in fact this was the type of PPI that covered self-employed people and didnt 
make it harder for them to make a claim. 
Its difficult now to know how well HSBC explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
HSBC gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think full 
information about costs and benefits would have affected whether he took the PPI. I say this 
because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. 
And it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the 
policy. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back the cost 
of the PPI to Mr P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman