DRN-3042745
The complaint
Ms T, who is represented by a claims management company, (CMC), complains that GE 
Money Consumer Lending Limited rejected her claim under S 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 
in respect of the purchase of a timeshare points-based membership.
What happened
In September 2007 Ms T acquired points-based timeshare membership. This cost £23,335 
and was funded by trading in an existing membership and a point of sale loan from GE. 
The CMC made a claim on behalf of Ms T under S 75 in February 2018. It provided a 
detailed bundle of documents including a witness statement from Ms T and a position 
statement running to some 37 pages. It claimed that the membership had been 
misrepresented in a number of ways and Ms T had been pressurised and induced to make 
the purchase. I do not consider it necessary for the purposes of this decision to set out the 
detailed claims save to say that GE dispute that those have been supported by evidence.
GE rejected the claim for several reasons. It didnt have any record of the loan, but it argued 
that any loan it may have made would have been to an intermediary and so the required 
debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) chain would have been broken. It also said that the claim was 
excluded by the Limitation Act as the loan had been made in 2007 and redeemed in 2008. 
Ms T had made her claim in 2017 and so this fell outside the six-year time limit.
A complaint was brought to this service where it was considered buy one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that she agreed that the claim was made out of 
tine and didnt consider it necessary to explore the DCS issue.
The CMC didnt agree and repeated many of the points made in its initial submission.  It 
added that the timeshare company had lost a case in a Spanish court and this should have 
been disclosed. It said that GEs final response letter was incomplete and had not addressed 
the fundamental issues of the claim. 
It also disputed the application of the Limitation Act and referred to our online guidance 
regarding time limits. The CMC argued that the date from when the clock started ticking for 
the purposes of the Limitation Act was when Ms T became aware she had cause to claim. 
GE accepted the findings but said it objected to this service considering Section 140 CCA 
and extending the scope of the complaint beyond that of Ms Ts representatives, which was 
never included in the complaint letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
I would say at the outset that I consider the CMC has conflated two separate matters on the 
issue of time limits. One is the rules by which this service operates, known as DISP, and the 
second is the application of the Limitation Act to the claim. I will deal with our rules first.
Can we consider the complaint under DISP 2.8.2(2)?
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)  three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit Act, a business is 
exercising its rights and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then 
complain if they feel that a business has failed to fulfil its obligations under this credit 
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So, in this case, it follows that the event complained of is GEs decision on April to decline 
the claim Ms T made regarding the timeshare, rather than the sale itself. Ms T complained 
on April 2018, which is well within the six-year time limit specified in the rules.
Because of this, I think we can look at this complaint, as it has been brought within the time 
limits set under DISP 2.8.2(2). So, I will now go on to consider the complaint, which is that 
GE would not look into the claim under the Limitation Act. 
Under s.75, GE is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or services for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, Ms T has a like 
claim against GE just as she would have against the supplier. So, if her claim against the 
supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation Act, then that is something 
GE could take into account when it considers her claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. Ms T says 
the timeshare she bought was misrepresented to her.
Under the Limitation Act, Ms T has six years from the date upon which she suffered a loss 
as a result of the misrepresentation to bring her claim. 
As GE steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work out 
when the clock starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it would 
start if the claim had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of 
the complaint, I think damage occurred when Ms T suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
Ms T says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, she paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused her to suffer a loss. She says that but for the misrepresentation, she wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid 
any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in September 2007. Thats the moment when Ms T accepted any potential benefit under 
the contract, and it was also the moment Ms T accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Ms T 
needed to raise her claim no later than September 2013. As I understand it, she raised her 
claim in February 2018, which is some 10 years after the loss occurred.
Ms T may say that she wasnt aware she could raise concerns about the misrepresentation 
until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims such as this, start to 
run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date she became aware that 
something might have gone wrong.  
I have also considered the application of S.32 which applies to fraudulent misrepresentation 
but it does extend to concealment. This can extend the time the consumer has to raise a 
claim. However, in this complaint Ms T has raised a number of issues with the complaint and 
those issues could have been discoverable earlier. For example, she says that she was told 
she would always have accommodation available, but this turned out not to be the case. 
Similarly, she says she was told that all accommodation was five star and this wasnt true. I 
believe this means that she had discovered or ought to have been able to discover that 
something had gone wrong and if that was in excess of 6 years before claim, we would not 
find that s.32 extends time. 
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A, the courts may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types of claims. For a s.140A claim, Ms T would 
have six years from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the information I 
have, the finance agreement ended in 2008 so a s.140A claim needed to be raised no later 
than 2014. As I understand it, Ms T raised her claim in February 2018, which is some 10 
years after her finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide whether or not any claim Ms T may have against the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that Ms Ts misrepresentation claim against the 
supplier and the like claim against GE more than likely exceeded the relevant time limits set 
out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for GE to take this into account 
when considering the s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that Ms Ts claim now is more than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I 
think GEs decision not to look into the claim was fair. 
I would also address the point raised by GE that this service should not consider S 140 in 
relation to this claim. I have read the submissions sent to GE by the CMC. These are lengthy 
and in its position statement which is both lengthy and detailed it does refer to the Limitation 
Act at pages 18 and 19. That means I believe it is something our service has been asked to 
consider.But in any event, I would be able to consider s.140A CCA even if Ms T had not raised it 
separately. Schedule 17 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 deals with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and how the FCA sets its rules. Paragraph 13(3) reads: 
The FCA may make rules providing that a complaint is not to be entertained (except in 
specified circumstances) if the complainant has not previously communicated its substance 
to the respondent and given him a reasonable opportunity to deal with it. 
Here I think the word substance means that I can consider the subject matter of a 
complaint, rather than the precise way it is written, communicated or presented. And it was 
held in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWHC 2142, at paragraph 26: 
The ombudsman is dealing with complaints, not causes of action. His jurisdiction is 
inquisitorial not adversarial. There is a wide latitude within which the ombudsman can 
operate
 So even if Ms Ts representatives hadnt mentioned s.140A CCA directly, I think it would 
have been proper of me to consider its effect. 
GE Money didnt assess any s.140A CCA claim and I think it should have done so, so I cant 
say it acted fairly in not responding to the claim. But for the reasons set out above, I dont 
think it would have upheld the claim if it had properly considered it. So, I dont think it needs 
to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman