DRN-4431073
The complaint
Mrs P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to prevent her from 
becoming a victim of a scam.
What happened
What Mrs P says
Mrs P said she received a phone call from someone (scammer) who claimed to be from her
banks fraud department. Ill refer to the scammer as J.
Mrs P said that she was initially suspicious of the call, but J knew personal details about her
that convinced her he was a genuine employee of RBS.
J told Mrs P that her account was at risk from fraudulent activity and that he was going to
help her secure it.
Mrs P explained that over the course of several hours, J persuaded Mrs P to send him
copies of various identity documents including her driving licence and images of her debit
card including the three-digit security number. Mrs P was told to download various apps that
all related to crypto currency trading (although Mrs P said she wasnt aware of their purpose
at the time).
Mrs P was also given a secure email address and a password for it to use when opening
the apps. In the background, loans were being applied for in Mrs Ps name, to which she
was unaware of at the time.
Mrs P was told to move funds between various RBS accounts and did so, making several
transfers between her accounts. At some point, a loan from a company Ill refer to as B for
£9,500 was approved and paid into Mrs Ps account. Another loan from a different company
was also paid into a different bank account held by Mrs P that was later repaid.
There were then a number of transactions using her debit card (apart from one bank
transfer) to various crypto currency accounts set up by Mrs P. Mrs P was required to confirm
the payments using her banks app on her phone. It then appears that J accessed the crypto
currency accounts and removed the funds to his own wallet, effectively making them
disappear.
The table sets out payments related to this complaint:
Date Time Merchant Amount (£)
1. 29/01/2022 15:51 Coinbase 490.00
2. 29/01/2022 16:01 Coinbase 490.00
3. 29/01/2022 17:03 Betterborrow 
Loan(£9,500.00)
4. 29/01/2022 17:45 Coinbase 950.00
5. 29/01/2022 18:37 Mercuryo.io 1,345.80
6. 29/01/2022 19:07 Mercuryo.io 1922.58
7. 29/01/2022 19:50 Banxa.com 1,900.00
8. 29/01/2022 17.22 open
banking900.00 
Total Paid £7,998.38
J told Mrs P that he would call her the next morning to continue securing her account.
Overnight, Mrs P became concerned about what had happened and called her bank. Mrs P
was advised to speak with B and contacted them about the loan. Mrs P also reported the
matter to the Police and Action Fraud.
What RBS said
RBS held numerous calls with Mrs P and told her to contact B about the loan. They didnt
believe any of the funds lost were Mrs Ps and as the loan was from another company, there
was nothing further for them to do. Mrs P raised a complaint against RBS and after they
again looked into the matter, they didnt uphold it. In their final response to Mrs P, they said:
that J wasnt a member of their fraud team.
The loan was from another company.
Her RBS account wasnt involved.
The investigation so far
Mrs P remained unhappy with how RBS had dealt with her issue and brought her complaint
to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of
our investigators who asked for information from both parties.
Mrs P explained what had happened and copies of some of the apps shed opened. She
didnt provide any other information related to her interaction with J.
RBS provided details of the transactions and copies of her statements. They also provided
numerous phone calls theyd had with Mrs P.
After considering the evidence, the investigator concluded that some of Mrs Ps testimony
was inconsistent  whether or not she opened the crypto currency accounts and was/ was
not responsible for making the payments. It was also thought that the various money
transfers/ incoming loan and payments to crypto currency merchants were, at some point,
unusual enough for RBS to have intervened. But, the investigator didnt think it would have
stopped Mrs P from making the payments and didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators outcome and was concerned about some of the
conclusions reached that indicated Mrs P had changed her story.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mrs Ps complaint on 2 October 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended to partly uphold Mrs Ps complaint and 
offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An 
extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If theres something Ive not mentioned within this complaint, it isnt because Ive ignored it,
its because Im satisfied that I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I was sorry to hear of the impact this scam has had on Mrs P. The first matter I
need to address is the authorisation of the payments. Having considered all the available
evidence on this complaint, including all the phone calls and evidence from another linked
complaint, I found it difficult to precisely pin down what actually happened during this scam.
At various times, Mrs P has given slightly conflicting statements about her involvement in the
loan and subsequent payments made (principally) using her debit card. I would expect some
variations in a complex story thats retold a number of times over a number of months, so I
dont draw much inference from this, but it has made it difficult to unpick what actually went
on.
I also noted a lack of evidence of Mrs Ps contact with J  even though she mentioned a
messaging service and that she sent him details of her documents. I was surprised that none
of these were provided, so if they are still available, Id encourage Mrs P to provide them.
When assessing the overall evidence, I do think that Mrs P was caught up in a scam that
started out by persuading her that her account was at risk. It then went on to moving funds
from a loan to various crypto currency accounts. Also, I think the evidence points to Mrs P
being involved in the payments herself using her card. So, even though she didnt intend to
pay a scammer, the payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations.
RBS had an obligation to follow Mrs Ps payment instructions, and Mrs P is presumed
liable for the loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
RBS also has to be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments that could involve
fraud or be the result of a scam. Although, there has to be a balance struck between
RBS identifying payments that may indicate a customer is potentially at risk of financial
harm and then responding appropriately to those concerns  and ensuring minimal
disruption to legitimate payments.
Should RBS have prevented these payments from being made?
I think the activity on Mrs Ps accounts was, when compared to how they normally operated,
unusual in that they didnt receive loans or make payments to crypto currency merchants in
a relatively short space of time.
Here, Mrs P was also asked to make transfers between some of her accounts which also
muddied the picture of what was happening, and I appreciate she later said she wasnt
aware of the various funds at her disposal. So, I can see that the account was operating
outside of its normal usage and at some point, would have expected RBS to take someaction (such as blocking payments and contacting Mrs P.)
None of the payments on their own would likely have been spotted by the banks, its the
accumulation and timing that are unusual. Plus, receiving a loan and immediately making
payments to crypto merchants can be an indicator of scams. So here, I think payment
number 6 in the table above is the point that I think RBS should have intervened. Thats
because by this time, several earlier transactions increasing in value had been made, after
receiving a large loan into the account.
It was previously suggested that an intervention wouldnt have made a difference. I dont
think thats the case and if RBS had intervened, such as a phone call to check what was
happening, Mrs P would probably have explained what shed been told (about the threat to
her account). RBS would have easily been able to determine they werent calling her (as J
claimed) and determined she was likely been scammed. I think this piece of information
would have stopped the scam in its tracks  theres also no evidence to think that Mrs P was
actively engaged in the scam herself or asked to lie, just a victim who was so confused by
the scammer that she appeared to be acting on his every instruction without having chance
to think about it.
I think that RBS missed an opportunity to intervene when they should have done, but I also
need to assess what type of refund is both fair and reasonable.
Did Mrs P contribute to some of the losses herself?
In cases such as this, an assessment also has to be made to understand if the
complainants actions (Mrs P) contributed to the losses  so called contributory negligence. If
so, it wouldnt be fair to ask RBS to refund 100% of them.
There are a number of factors here which I think contributed to the loss which I think Mrs P
should bear responsibility for.
Mrs P set up the crypto currency apps herself  she says she was unaware of what
they were at the time, but I dont think this is a plausible explanation. These apps are
only for one main purpose and thats crypto currency purchase and trading. I think its
unlikely she wasnt aware of what they were.
Its likely she was aware of the loan and the spending from her account was in
excess of her available funds. It doesnt make sense that Mrs P made over £7,000 in
payments when that money simply wasnt available in her accounts at the time.
She was told the original call was to protect her money, so why was Mrs P making
payments in excess of her own funds from a recent loan to crypto currency
merchants?
The overall picture from this leads me to the conclusion that Mrs P acted in a way that
contributed to the losses. I think there were several unusual aspects to this which Mrs P
could have questioned and her involvement in the payments led to the loss of funds from the
loan.
I think that Mrs P should bear equal responsibility (50%) for the losses, and thats only from
the point that I think that RBS should have intervened (6 in the table above).
My provisional decision
Im currently intending to uphold this complaint and recommend that:RBS refund 50% of the disputed transactions from 6 onwards in the table above. Id
note here that Ive not seen the timing on the £900 payment  so if it occurred prior to
payment 6, then I dont currently intend to include it in the redress calculation. Id ask
RBS to put a time against this transaction if possible. If thats not possible, then I
intend to include it in the redress calculation as it would be unfair to exclude it without
evidence it happened before I think RBS should have intervened.
Ive also considered (in relation to the outcome of this complaint) the linked complaint
concerning the repayment of the loan itself.
I invited Mrs P and RBS to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. RBS accepted my provisional decision and 
provided payment details for the open banking payment (8 in the table above) which showed 
it took place prior to payment 6 in the table above, so for the purposes of this complaint, it 
wont be included in the final refund figure. Although RBS have offered to settle the 
complaint in line with the provisional decision, Im issuing a final decision in order to explain 
the timing of payment 8 (and how it impacts the final settlement) and to take into account the 
additional comments received.
Mrs P had no further evidence for me to consider but reiterated that she had no 
understanding of crypto investments at the time of the payments, and she was completely 
taken in by the scammer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
I appreciate Mrs Ps further comments, and I recognise she was the victim of a cruel scam, 
but my assessment of her complaint (detailed in my provisional decision) sets out the 
various elements of the situation. This has led me to what I think is a fair and reasonable 
conclusion that both parties should share some responsibility for her losses. 
Putting things right
As the open banking payment (number 8 in the above table) was shown to have been made 
prior to the point I think that RBS should have intervened, it wont be included in the 
calculation for the refund.
So, in order for the complaint to be finalised, RBS should now refund 50% of the payments 
from number 6 onwards in the above table (being payments 6 & 7).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, in part, against The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc and theyre required to settle the complaint as detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman