DRN-3008336
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the service she received from Nationwide Building Society when she 
visited a Nationwide branch.
What happened
Miss W visited a Nationwide branch with her two children as she needed to use the counter 
services. Because of Covid-19 social distancing restrictions, Nationwide were only allowing a 
limited number of customers into branch at any one time. 
Miss W was at the front of the queue to go into branch and was allowed into branch and 
asked what services she needed to use. Because Miss W needed to use the counter 
services she and her children were asked to go back outside and wait until the group 
currently using the counter services currently had finished and had left the branch. 
Miss W did go back outside, but while she was waiting, Nationwide staff offered to let the 
person behind her in the queue into the branch. Miss W wasnt happy about this, so she 
complained to the staff member present. Miss W was able to use the counter services that 
day, but she raised a formal complaint with Nationwide about what had happened.
Nationwide looked at Miss Ws complaint, but they didnt feel that they had done anything 
wrong. Additionally, Nationwide felt that Miss W had spoken with its staff in an unacceptable 
way and referenced earlier incidents where it felt that Miss W had done the same. Because 
of this, Nationwide didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint and gave Miss W formal notice that they 
had taken the decision to close her accounts.
Miss W wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that the person behind 
Miss W in the queue had only wanted to use an ATM machine, which was available for use 
at that time and was far enough from the service counters such that social distancing 
restrictions werent broken by allowing the other person into branch. Because of this, our 
investigator didnt feel that Nationwide had done anything wrong by offering to let the other 
person to use the ATM while Miss W was waiting for the counter services to become free.
Our investigator also felt that Nationwide were entitled to decide who to offer its services to, 
and so didnt feel that they could reasonably say that Nationwide had done anything wrong 
by making the decision to close Miss Ws accounts.
Miss W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Miss W to have been asked to wait 
outside with her two children only to then see another customer who was behind her in the 
queue being offered the opportunity to go inside and conduct their business.
Nationwide have confirmed that the reason the other customer was given such an offer while 
Miss W was still waiting was because the other customer didnt need to use the counter 
services that Miss W was waiting for, but instead only needed to use an ATM machine which 
was free at that time.
This explanation seems reasonable to me, and I dont feel that Nationwides attempts to 
efficiently reduce the queue of people who needed to use their services in this way 
constitutes an act of unfairness against Miss W. Ultimately, the section of the Nationwide 
branch that the other person wanted to use was available for use at that time, whereas the 
counter services section that Miss W was waiting for was not.
Im aware that Miss W feels that by offering to let the other person into branch before her, 
Nationwide were discriminating against her. I can appreciate how Miss W might feel this 
way, but I dont feel that theres anything in the information available to me that would allow 
me to confirm this point. Indeed, given that Im satisfied that the explanation provided by 
Nationwide as to why the other person was offered to go into branch is reasonable, as 
explained above, Id find it difficult to conclude in light of this that any form of discrimination 
actually took place.
Miss W has also expressed her dissatisfaction at Nationwide taking the decision to close her 
accounts. Its understandable that Miss W might be upset by this point, but its for a business 
to decide who it wishes to continue to do business with, and given that Nationwide have 
provided a clear explanation as to why it made this decision, I dont feel that I can fairly 
instruct against Nationwide on this point.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Nationwide to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss W was wanting here, but I hope that she 
will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman