DRN-2513760
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with how Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has 
dealt with her after she had problems with a car she took on hire purchase. 
 
What happened
In January 2019 Miss M took out a hire purchase agreement with MBFS for a new car. But 
over the next few months, this car developed various faults which seemed to relate to the 
restraint system. As these werent able to be fixed to her satisfaction, MBFS replaced the car 
with a new one. It modified Miss Ms hire purchase agreement to reflect this.
 
But this new car developed similar faults. Again, these werent able to be resolved. When 
Miss M complained, MBFS allowed her to reject this car. It gave her a refund of her deposit, 
refunded 15% of the instalments shed paid and gave her £250 for the inconvenience shed 
experienced. MBFS also refunded a £35 GAP insurance cancellation charge to Miss M as a 
gesture of goodwill, even though it hadnt sold that product to her.
 
But Miss M didnt think this went far enough. She brought her complaint to our service saying 
she didnt feel the amount paid by MBFS reflected the inconvenience, anxiety and stress 
shed suffered. Miss M also wanted the credit searches carried out by MBFS when the first 
car was replaced to be removed from her credit file. She was also unhappy that MBFS had 
taken a further payment after the car had been rejected.
 
One of our investigators looked in to Miss Ms complaint. MBFS told him it had already 
refunded the further payment that had been taken. He said it was clear MBFS accepted both 
cars hadnt been of satisfactory quality. Given the rejection of the car our investigator also 
said, as far as possible, MBFS should put Miss M back in the position she would have been 
in had she not taken out the hire purchase agreement.
 
He thought it was right that MBFS had refunded Miss Ms deposit  and he thought the 
payment of £250 together with the £35 GAP cancellation refund was reasonable 
compensation. But our investigator didnt think the 15% refund of instalments adequately 
reflected how much Miss Ms use of the cars had been affected by these issues. He said 
Miss M should get a refund of all the payments shed made under the hire purchase 
agreement less a fair usage charge of one payment per 1,000 miles driven.
 
As Miss M had made nine payments and covered around 5,500 miles, this meant MBFS 
should refund three and a half payments  less the 15% of payments already refunded. 
MBFS didnt accept this. In short, it maintained the amount it had already refunded was more 
than fair and reasonable.
 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a decision.
 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in December 2020. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Having done so, I reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why. 
But first. Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the crux of the matter here: has MBFS done enough to 
compensate Miss M for the problems she experienced with the car she took on hire 
purchase?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Im pleased to see MBFS supported Miss Ms rejection of the second car. As such, it ended 
her hire purchase agreement and gave her a refund of her deposit of £4,450. Our service 
would typically expect MBFS to pay Miss M 8% yearly simple interest on the deposit amount 
from the date it was paid to the date it was refunded. As it hasnt done so, I intend to direct 
MBFS to do this.
 
Ill now turn to Miss Ms use of the two cars before she rejected the replacement. Its clear to 
me that her use of these cars, which she was paying for under her hire purchase agreement, 
was less than it otherwise would have been if theyd been fault free. Miss M told us she was 
never sure if it was safe to drive either car. I accept this.
 
MBFS have recognised this and have already refunded 15% of Miss Ms payments to her. 
Ive thought about whether this is fair and reasonable. Ive looked at Miss Ms hire purchase 
agreement. This stated her annual permitted mileage was 10,000. This is less than the 1,000 
miles a month figure our investigator used. Miss M also told her insurer she expected to 
cover around 10,000 miles a year. So Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable estimate.
 
Ive looked at the mileage history for both cars. When the first car was replaced, it had 
covered 2,888 miles. When the second car was rejected, it had covered around 2,658 miles. 
This gives a total of just over 5,500 miles. The second car was rejected around nine months 
after Miss M took out hire purchase agreement.
 
Using the 10,000 miles a year estimate, nine months normal use would equal about 7,500 
miles. Miss M did around 2,000 miles less than this. But Im very aware that this estimate is 
just that, an estimate. I can see, Miss M told us that she injured her ankle. This also reduced 
the number of miles she covered. But MBFS wasnt responsible for Miss Ms injury.
 
Taking all these circumstances into account, I think MBFS refund of 15% of Miss Ms 
payments is a fair and reasonable reflection of the loss of use she experienced. But again, I 
would expect MBFS to add 8% yearly simple interest on to this refund.
 
I would point out here that MBFS has refunded 15% of the nine payments made by Miss M 
up to and including her October 2019 payment. The November payment was collected in 
error after the car had been rejected. But as this was returned to Miss M within a couple of 
days, I dont require MBFS to do anything further in respect of this.
 
MBFS records show Miss Ms hire purchase agreement was modified towards the end of 
April 2019 to reflect the replacement of her original car. I know Miss M is unhappy that 
MBFS carried out credit checks at this point. I dont think it did anything wrong by doing this. 
Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for MBFS to carry out further checks to make sure modifying the hire purchase agreement was a feasible option for Miss Ms circumstances at 
that time.
 
Finally Ill turn to the overall inconvenience and upset Miss M experienced. She told us she 
had to make too many phone calls and send too many emails to resolve this. Miss M also 
said she had heightened anxiety for her safety and the safety of others. I can fully 
understand this. I can also understand her being inconvenienced by having to return both 
cars to the dealership while the faults were looked at.
 
But Ive also thought about the actions MBFS took to rectify the situation. It supplied 
courtesy cars to Miss M while her cars were being looked at. Ive taken into account the 
relative proximity of Miss M to the dealership. MBFS did replace her first car after four 
months, and it supported the rejection of her second car. It also refunded a £35 GAP 
insurance cancellation charge as a gesture of goodwill. Taking all this into account, Im 
satisfied the £250 MBFS has already paid to Miss M is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here.
 
In summary, to fairly and reasonably resolve this complaint, Im satisfied MBFS needs to pay 
Miss M 8% yearly simple interest on the deposit and payment refunds its already made, as 
set out below.
 
MBFS accepted my provisional decision.
Miss M didnt respond to either my provisional decision or the further copy our investigator 
sent to her. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new arguments or evidence has been provided to me, Im satisfied theres no reason 
to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision outlined above.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should:
pay 8% yearly simple interest on Miss Ms deposit from the date it was paid to the 
date it was refunded; and
pay 8% yearly simple interest on the 15% of payments its already refunded from the 
date each payment was made to the date it was refunded. 
If MBFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman