DRN-1720329
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ls credit card account when she applied for the card over the internet. 
It protected Mrs Ls card monthly repayments in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mrs L disagreed. Shes asked for an 
ombudsman look at the complaint again and make a final decision. 
Mrs L said that although she chose to take out the PPI, thinking it would improve her 
chances of being accepted for the credit card she was applying for, the main reason shes 
unhappy is that when she tried to cancel it, she was told she couldn't.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mrs L applied online for her card she wouldve had to tick a box to say she wanted 
PPI in order to have it added on to her card. And Mrs L told us why she chose the PPI. So 
I think Mrs L understood at the time that it was up to her to say if she wanted it  and it 
seems to be agreed that the PPI was added to her account at her request. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L. This means it didnt need to make sure it 
was suitable for her. But Capital One still had to give Mrs L enough clear information so she 
could decide for herself whether or not she wanted it. 
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it shouldve been. And taking out PPI 
wouldnt have made any difference to whether she was accepted for the credit card or not. 
So Ive thought carefully about whether Mrs L mightve made a different decision about 
taking out PPI if she was given clearer information. 
I think its likely that she still wouldve bought the PPI. Heres why I say this.
Mrs L was eligible for the policy. And she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations and 
exclusions that mightve made it harder to make a successful claim - such as an unusual 
employment situation or a pre-existing medical condition. So I dont think having more 
information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put her off taking it out.
Mrs L says her employer wouldve paid less than 12 months sick pay if she was off work 
sick. So I think this policy couldve been useful to her as it couldve paid out for up to 
12 whole months if she had an accident or she was too ill to work. 
As well as this, the policy couldve also more than covered her card monthly repayments for 
up to 12 months per claim if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
If shed needed to claim for the full 12 months, the policy wouldve completely cleared her 
card balance.
And although Mrs L told us she could rely on her family for financial assistance this doesnt 
mean PPI wasnt useful to have. Relying on other people to help out in the event of money 
problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change 
unexpectedly.  
Based on everything shes told us, I think Mrs L couldve benefitted from the PPI.   
I dont think the PPI cost was made clear to Mrs L when she bought the policy. But, from 
what Ive seen, Mrs L hasnt suggested that she couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And 
she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to, so it seems Mrs L wanted this type 
of cover at the time. 
Looked at overall, I think Mrs L still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better 
informed. The policy gave her worthwhile protection in her particular situation. So I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
This means Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
Capital One (Europe) plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about that. Because Capital 
One (Europe) plc didnt tell Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
Ive taken carefully into account everything that Mrs L has said in response to our 
adjudicators view letter  but this doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint.
Mrs L is certain that, after her card was issued with PPI, she asked Capital One to cancel the 
policy later on in 2002 - and says she was told she couldnt. But what Mrs L says isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this part of her complaint. I have to look at all 
the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
Mrs L hasnt provided any further details or information. Weve checked with Capital One 
and it told us that it hadnt previously received a request to cancel Mrs Ls PPI policy and 
had it done so, it would have cancelled the policy at her request. 
I think thats likely  the policy has always been optional, as Mrs L was aware from the start 
when she opted to take it out. I think its more likely that shes recalling a different 
conversation about something else  and its completely understandable that she may not now recollect exactly what happened as this was so long ago. If she hasnt already done so, 
and she would still like to cancel the policy, then Mrs L can tell Capital One to cancel the 
policy at any time. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman