DRN-3135676
Complaint
Mrs D has complained about the overdraft charges Barclays UK Bank Plc (Barclays) 
applied to her current account. Shes said the charges were unfair.
Background
Mrs Ds complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Barclays 
had done anything wrong. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs D 
disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with. So 
while Mrs D might have preferred a charge based on the amount borrowed rather than a flat 
fee, as the requirement to charge in this way only came into force in April 2020, Barclays 
was entitled to apply a flat daily fee at the time it did. 
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs D if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mrs Ds 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mrs D was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where Barclays didnt treat Mrs D fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Barclays continued 
charging Mrs D even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought 
to have realised this was the case. Ive also looked through Mrs Ds statements throughout 
the period concerned I cant see that Barclays ought to have been aware that Mrs D might 
have been struggling. 
Its fair to say that Mrs D did use her overdraft. But this happened sporadically. And while Im 
not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs D expenditure, nonetheless 
there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary 
transactions account going from the account. Equally the amount being credited to Mrs Ds 
account each month didnt indicate that she was struggling either. So I think that Mrs D was 
free to avoid using her overdraft if she was unhappy with the charges. 
So in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to have 
proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I dont think Barclays charged Mrs D unfairly. 
As this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said about Barclays pricing 
structure as a whole, I dont think that Barclays needs to refund any interest, fees and 
charges and Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs D  especially as shes been waiting 
sometime for an answer from us. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman