DRN-2128172
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited failed to 
notify them the cost of life cover had increased, or that due to a system error these costs 
werent collected for over a year. The charges subsequently came out of the policy value in 
one go; had they known of this, they would have surrendered the policy sooner. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms whole of life policy is reviewable. It had a sum assured of £140,000 payable 
on the first death of either Mr or Mrs M. The premium to provide that level of cover started at 
£148.30. The premium bought units, which were in turn encashed to cover the management 
and life cover costs. Any units left over remained invested to help support the level of life 
cover going forward. Mr and Mrs M ceased paying premiums and made the policy paid up in 
March 2017.  
Since the tenth anniversary, Mr and Mrs Ms policy has been reviewed regularly to establish 
if the premium and value of the policy continued to support the provision of £140,000 of life 
cover. If they could no further action was required but if they couldnt then usually a premium 
increase is offered, or a reduction in the amount of life cover being provided. All of the 
reviews until that of May 2019 indicated that £140,000 life cover could be supported. 
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs M received their first review which indicated the policy might not be 
able to continue providing the life cover amount. It was at this point Mr and Mrs M were told 
of the costs of life cover for the previous 12 months and were unhappy to find it in excess of 
£6,000. They also discovered that due to a system error the costs of the policy hadnt been 
collected for over a year and were then collected in one go.  
Mr and Mrs M complained as they say had they known they would have surrendered the 
policy when the value was over £50,000. Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint, it was 
satisfied the system error had no real impact as these charges were due to come out 
anyway. It also explained the cost of life increased as the lives assured got older, and when 
the policy was made paid up, it was explained the cost would continue to be met from the 
policy value. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. She was satisfied Mr and Mrs M had 
been made aware the costs of cover would come out of the value and she wasnt persuaded 
there was sufficient evidence to show they would have surrendered the policy sooner. 
Mr and Mrs M have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, they 
have said:
The old-style statements didnt give any information on the movements in the plan 
valuation, or details of life or management charges. 
There was an increase in the plan value between the 2017 statement and the 2018 
statement and so they thought investment returns had exceeded costs. At this time 
they were happy with the value of their plan. There was no indication in 2018 that 
there were any outstanding life cover costs. They therefore consider the statement 
misleading and by not notifying them of this, they were treated unfairly. 
It wasnt until receiving the new style statement that they became aware of the life 
cover charges and that they had been applied retrospectively. They had originally 
taken out the policy to repay their mortgage after 25 years. They held the policy for 
29 years and the maturity value was well below original projections. They were 
monitoring the policy and were going to cash it in, once the value started to decline 
and it no longer made economic sense to keep it. 
Sun Life failed to notify them of the steep increase in life cover costs. Had they 
known the value of the policy was falling so quickly they would have cashed it in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.A whole of life policy isnt designed to be an investment vehicle; it doesnt have a maturity 
date or maturity value. It is a life cover policy that runs for the reminder of the policyholders 
lives and is certain to pay out a lump sum on death (providing life cover costs are met). They 
can be set up to pay out on first or second death. In this case, the policy was set up to pay 
out £140,000 on the first death of either Mr or Mrs M. 
Any value built up in a whole of life policy is there to support the continuing provision of life 
cover at the required level; rather than any other purpose, albeit I understand some 
policyholders might choose to use the value for something else if they no longer have a need 
for life cover. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy has been reviewed regularly. The purpose of those reviews has been 
to establish whether £140,000 life cover can be provided based on the premium being paid 
and any value that had been built up within the policy. They would only have been asked to 
take action if the sum assured was no longer thought achievable. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M feel very strongly they should have been notified of the steep 
increase in life cover costs. But there hasnt been a steep increase as they suggest, as 
shown in Sun Lifes response. The life cover costs for their policy have been increasing for 
many years; something to be expected when the cost of providing life cover increases with 
the age of those covered. I wouldnt expect the mortality costs of providing life cover to be 
set out in the plan reviews; after all such information could be commercially sensitive. And 
Im not aware there was any requirement for such information to be given. I therefore dont 
find Sun Life was wrong not to include this information on plan reviews  as it hadnt done for 
many years. 
I accept Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that life cover costs werent taken from their plan value 
when they should have been and that they were taken in one go. But its hard to see how 
their position has changed because of that; whether those costs had come out monthly as 
they ought to have done, or in one go, the costs were the same and would have had a 
similar impact on the policy value.  
Mr and Mrs M have argued they would have surrendered the policy when its value was over 
£50,000 had they known the cost of life cover. But Mr and Mrs Ms policy was never truly 
valued at over £50,000. That value was given during the time when life cover costs hadnt 
been deducted.  I understand the life cover cost at the time was £212.17 a month. Mr and 
Mrs M were no longer paying premiums, so had the costs come out when they should have 
done, Ive calculated the policy value ought to have been around £48,600 at the time of the 
2018 review. 
Mr and Mrs M made the decision to stop paying premiums and make their policy paid up in 
2017. They were made aware the life cover would continue to be provided and the costs for 
providing that would come out of the value. The review sent in 2017 also explained:
If you choose not to pay any further premiums into your plan and your plan has a 
value, the insurance benefits will continue to be provided. The units already allocated 
to you plan pay to keep these benefits in force and any monthly plan fee. This means 
that the value of your plan is likely to reduce in the future.  
The value of the policy at the 2017 review was around £48,500. Im not persuaded Mr and 
Mrs M would have made a different decision to surrender their policy in 2018, had life cover 
costs been deducted when they ought to have been, or they had been given more accurate 
valuation figures; I have calculated there would have been less than £100 difference in the 
value. And they were aware of the likelihood of the value reducing in the future. Im also mindful that they wouldnt have known of an actual further decrease in value until 
the review of 2019, but which time the costs had already been met and value reduced.  
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, and although acknowledging things did go 
wrong, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result. If things had happened as 
they should have, Im not persuaded they would have surrendered their policy 2018, given 
the true value of the policy was very similar to that when they made the decision to make it 
paid up; and they knew of the likelihood values reducing further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman