DRN-2341150
The complaint
 Miss F complaints that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclays unfairly recorded a 
default on her credit file.
 
What happened
In late December 2014, Miss F took out a career development loan with Barclays. After 
falling into arrears, she complained to Barclays about the level of support it was providing. 
She wanted it to postpone her repayments. That complaint was considered by our service in 
early 2017, and we didnt uphold it. 
Barclays had agreed to pause a pending default notice whilst we considered the complaint. 
After we finished our investigation, it issued a further default notice in October 2017. As no 
arrangement was made by the deadline of 21 November 2017 to clear the arrears, it 
defaulted the account and reported this to the credit reference agencies.
In February 2020, Miss F received a letter from Barclays offering a refund of some interest 
and charges applied to her account as part of a remediation scheme. Miss F complained that 
this showed Barclays hadnt treated her fairly. But it explained it had taken a blanket 
approach to refund all its customers with the collections team at the relevant time, as the 
scheme found some of them didnt receive the right support. It said the refund was a gesture 
of goodwill. It also paid £75 to compensate Miss F for reminding her of this difficult time. 
Miss F got back in touch with our service and asked us to reconsider her previous complaint. 
Our investigator explained this wasnt appropriate, as wed already looked into the specifics 
of her individual concerns and concluded that Barclays had treated her fairly. Miss F had 
also expressed dissatisfaction that her account had defaulted. Our investigator explained we 
could consider that, as it happened after her previous complaint. Miss F confirmed that the 
crux of her complaint was the default, so she wished to proceed on that basis. 
Our investigator issued a view reiterating that he was dismissing the points wed already 
considered. Looking at what happened since then, he thought it was fair for Barclays to 
default the account given the level of arrears. He pointed out this had prevented further 
interest and charges from accumulating. But he thought there had been a delay in applying 
the default. We closed our case in March 2017, but Barclays internal notes show it kept the 
case on hold until October 2017. So our investigator recommended that the default be 
backdated to April 2017, and that any interest or charges after that point be refunded. This 
was to put Miss F back in the position shed be in but for the delay. 
Barclays accepted this, but Miss F disagreed. She said the view didnt take account of the 
solution she wanted  for the default to be removed and for a payment plan to be agreed. 
She also said we cant cut off the story around her earlier engagement with Barclays. Im 
now deciding how this complaint should be resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
As Miss Fs appeal made further mention of points considered under her previous complaint, 
Ill first set the scope of what Im considering within this decision.
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules under which we operate can be found online in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Under DISP Rule 3.3.4A, I can dismiss a complaint 
without consideration of the merits if: 
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the 
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
DISP 3.3.4B sets out examples of situations which might impair the effective operation of our 
service. These include: 
(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or 
excluded under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence 
which the Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently 
become available to the complainant).
Its clear that weve already considered Miss Fs concerns about her earlier engagement with 
Barclays. And whilst shes highlighted the refund its since issued, this doesnt constitute 
material new evidence likely to affect the outcome of her previous case. As our investigator 
explained, whilst Barclays agreed a blanket refund as a gesture of goodwill, this doesnt 
affect our findings that, in the individual circumstances of her complaint, Barclays treated her 
fairly. So I wont reconsider those points. What I can, and will, consider is how Barclays 
treated her after we issued our previous view. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Ive first considered whether it was unfair to default the account at all. At the point Barclays 
issued a default notice in October 2017, Miss F was over £4,000 in arrears. This letter made 
the consequences clear  i.e. that a default would be reported unless the arrears were 
cleared or an agreement was reached to repay them.
I can see that, following this letter, Miss F told Barclays she could afford no more than £90 
per month. This was less than her contractually-due monthly payments  so would add to, 
rather than help repay, her arrears. Especially as interest was still accumulating, in line with 
the agreed terms of the loan. As such, a default was reported. Lenders have a duty to 
accurately report the status of an account on the customers credit file. Given the level of 
arrears, I consider it fair for Barclays to have reported that the account was in default. And 
by doing this, it stopped further interest from accruing. 
That said, I agree with our investigator that there was a delay in taking further action on the 
account. Barclays added a recurring note saying the account was on hold pending our 
investigation until October 2017  at which point it issued the default notice. But we told 
Barclays in March 2017 that wed closed the case. Ive no reason to think Miss F would have 
been able to repay the arrears had Barclays acted promptly once we closed our case. From 
what Ive seen, her circumstances didnt change during that period; she was still studying. 
Given this, I consider it likely the account would have still defaulted  but seven months 
earlier. Interest would have stopped accruing at this point. So to address the impact on 
Miss F caused by the delay, Barclays should backdate the default to April 2017 and refund 
any interest added after that point, if it hasnt already done so.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss F, who I know feels strongly about this complaint. I do recognise the impact the default has had on her. But in all the circumstances, Im not persuaded the 
default could have been altogether avoided. So Im satisfied the fair way forward is to ensure 
its backdated, to address the impact of Barclays delay. She call still engage with Barclays 
about how to repay the remaining debt and settle the account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I 
direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Backdate Miss Fs default to April 2017, and
Refund any interest or charges applied to Miss Fs account since April 2017, if it 
hasnt already done so
If a refund is due in line with the second point above, Barclays should pay this within 28 days 
of being notified by us of Miss F's acceptance of my decision, failing which interest will 
accrue at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date of decision to the date of settlement 
(less any tax properly deductible).
If Miss F accepts this decision, it becomes legally binding on both parties. So she wouldnt 
then be able to take legal action in relation to any issues covered in this case. On the other 
hand, if she rejects the decision, whilst that wont affect her legal rights, it will mean that 
Barclays wouldnt be obliged to comply with my order  so it would then be purely a matter 
of goodwill as to whether it honours my decision. Legally, an offer isnt binding until 
unconditional acceptance of it has been communicated by the offeree.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman