DRN-3294598
The complaint
Ms X says Francis Clark Financial Planning (FCFP) failed to provide her with adequate 
advice in respect of her pensions and investments.
What happened
Ms X had been a client of Winter Rule for many years. It provided assistance with her annual 
tax returns and accounts. She says it introduced her to its in-house financial adviser (Mr Z). 
Around 2012 Winter Rule was taken over by Francis Clark. 
FCFP says it had an agreement with Ms X to provide her with financial advice. And that a 
separate entity, Francis Clark LLP (FCLLP) was engaged to provide her with accountancy 
and tax services.
Ms X says that her pension provision was a major part of her financial planning  both her 
private pensions and the main defined benefit (DB) scheme she was a member of.
In 2016 Ms X agreed a memorandum of understanding with a local authority about the 
expansion of the coverage of the professional services she provided. This meant there 
would be a review of her pay and conditions, which would take effect from 1 April 2016, 
including her pension benefits. The review wasnt finalised until 2018. And she says she 
sought advice about her options and how to proceed.
Essentially, it is these changes to Ms Xs circumstances and what unfolded subsequently 
that are at the heart of her complaint. In February 2021 she raised several concerns with 
FCFP and FCLLP about what she considered were shortcomings in the services theyd 
provided.
For example, Ms X said FCFP failed to provide her with adequate advice in respect of her 
pensions and investments, such that shed been exposed to avoidable tax charges and a 
sub-optimal approach to managing her Lifetime Allowance (LTA).
Ms X says theres no evidence her affairs were properly managed after Mr Zs departure 
from FCFP in 2018. She believes there were communication issues between it and FCLLP, 
which exacerbated the problems shes encountered. She says shes incurred unjustified 
fees. And that shes suffered financial detriment because of whats happened. 
FCFP responded to Ms X in March 2021. It rejected her complaint. It said the ongoing 
service she paid for was in respect of the management of her Individual Savings Accounts 
(ISAs). It had delivered this. It said it had never been engaged to provide such advice about 
her pension provision.
Ms X brought her complaint to the Service. The Investigator didnt uphold her case. She 
concluded there hadnt been an agreement with FCFP to provide her with comprehensive 
advice covering her whole financial position, for example incorporating her DB pension 
arrangement. When it had provided advice about ad hoc pension contributions, it had 
properly considered matters such as the position on her LTA.
Ms X disagreed with the Investigator, so her complaint has been passed to me to review 
afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I should make clear the scope of this decision. The complaint Ms X brought to us included 
allegations about the acts and omissions of two firms  FCFP and FCLLP. As she is aware, 
these are separate entities.
FCFP is an independent financial advisor firm. It is a limited company regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I can consider alleged acts and omissions by it.
FCLLP is a limited liability partnership registered to carry on audit work, regulated by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Its an accountancy practice and 
provides advice services, including on taxation. I cant consider what it may or may not have 
done  ultimately these would be matters for its regulatory body.
Im not upholding Ms Xs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by FCFP for Ms X. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like FCFP. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Ms Xs complaint.
One of the arguments Ms X makes is that FCFP and FCLLP effectively held themselves out 
as a single entity. She noted that the Francis Clark website said:
as a team we work closely with our accountancy colleagues to create detailed, cohesive 
and tax efficient financial plans for our clients to help them achieve their long-term financial 
objectives.Taken together with some of the earliest communications Winter Rule had with Ms X and the 
approach of the business then to hold joint meetings between the accountancy and financial 
adviser teams and Ms X, I understand the point she makes  its not without merit.
FCFP says it and FCLLP have always been entirely separate firms with different company 
registrations, different employees, individual professional indemnity insurance, offering 
different services and engaging completely separately with clients for the services provided.
I dont think promoting the virtues of different businesses being able to work closely for the 
benefit of clients alters the underpinning and separate agreements Ms X reached with FCFP 
and FCLLP about what they would be individually responsible for.
In this regard, I find the separate agreements Ms X signed with FCFP and FCLLP and the 
predecessor business, and the various key transactions each had with her, evidence the 
actual scope and substance of the relationship.
For example, the terms and conditions of business she signed with Winter Rule (Financial 
Planning Limited) in 2007 said the following with regards to fees:
5. We derive income from commission paid to us in respect of transactions in life 
assurance, pensions, ISAsAlternatively you may wish us to work on a fee basis. Our fees 
for providing the services covered by this engagement letter are based on the degree of skill 
and responsibility involved and the time necessarily occupied on the work. Before the work is 
carried out we will indicate to you the amount of the fee.
6. Where, on receipt of instructions from you, a financial report is prepared or additional 
work has to be undertaken that does not relate to investments on which commission is 
payable, or advice is given but no transaction is arranged on your behalf, fees will be costed 
on a time-spent basis at a rate agreed with you in writing
These earlier agreements provided for payment by commission where the firm 
recommended a particular product. And where commissions were not applicable, for fees in 
respect of work done.
Since 31 December 2012, financial adviser firms were no longer able to be paid through 
commission from the provider. Following implementation of the Retail Distribution Review 
(RDR), advisers were paid by way of fees rather than through the payment of commission. 
Those fees could be paid in cash or taken from the investment as a percentage reduction.
I can see this development in the arrangements between Ms X and FCFP. In March 2013 it 
provided advice to her about her investment and pension priorities. In the letter of 
engagement, which formed the contract for services between the two parties, it said the 
following about its charges:
We charge our clients for our professional services which include advice, implementation 
and review. Full details are included in the section of the Client Agreement headed Paying 
for Services.
Advise and implementation fee  my fee for the services and advice detailed above will be 
3% of the monies investedIn the event that we do not implement any pension or ISA 
policies, this fee is all you will pay
Review fee  our review [ongoing] service will charge you a fee equivalent to 0.5% of the 
value of the funds under review. This review service includes a comprehensive annual report 
which will be presented to you at a meeting where we will answer your questions and agree 
on any changes to your plans, including rebalancing the asset allocation and ensuring the 
fund selection remain suitable..Ms X signed and returned a copy of the letter to say she accepted the engagement terms 
and the fees proposed. On balance, I think its more likely than not Ms X understood the 
basis on which shed engaged FCFP. 
In her most recent submission, Ms X said she didnt accept that the business arrangement 
she had with FCFP was limited to the written signed contracts and that its service was 
limited to oversight of the products it was receiving fees for. She has pointed to a pattern of 
advice she says she received from FCFP and its predecessor on pensions.
There is an audit trail which shows FCFP and its predecessor did do work for Ms X in 
relation to her pension. For example:
- In 2005 her objectives included building a fund to meet her daughters school fees, 
maximising the use of ISAs to invest for the medium term, and to consider her 
pension provision. 
- In 2006 FCFP recommended and established a personal pension plan for Ms X with 
Scottish Widows. And later, after being provided with details of her DB scheme 
valuation she sought confirmation that it had considered the position on tax. It 
confirmed she was well within the then lifetime allowance provisions.
- In 2012 FCFP received information from Ms X about her DB scheme. This enabled it 
to confirm that she could safely make a further contribution to her personal pension 
of £10,000 within the relevant current taxation parameters.
- In 2013, FCFP made a further recommendation that Ms X should add another 
£10,000 to her personal pension. This appears to have been the last contribution it 
advised her to make.
- In 2015, a letter from FCFP to Ms X confirms that as her earnings were now all 
pensionable and covered by her DB scheme, there didnt appear to be an opportunity 
for further contributions.
So, I agree with Ms X that there was a pattern here of FCFP engagement with matters 
concerning her pension provision, as well as her investments. But I think the pattern, was for 
FCFP to recommend how she might utilise available funds, after ISA investments, for her 
personal pension.
For example, in 2013 Ms Xs stated objectives were to utilise her maximum ISA subscription 
for the year and to make a single pension contribution. In recommending the set-up and later 
contributions to her personal pension between 2006-2013, I think FCFP had a duty to 
understand the relevant regulations for allowances and taxation for each transaction. From 
the evidence Ive seen it had a grip on this.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute between the parties that the only fees received by 
FCFP for ongoing review work were in relation to the oversight of her ISA funds. Other fees 
charged by FCFP over the years were for advice and implementation where it made 
recommendations to Ms X about additional investments and the set-up of her personal 
pension and subsequent contributions to it.
When annual reviews were carried out by Mr Z before his retirement (after which Ms X said 
the service fell short), it was made clear that these would only cover the funds under review 
(her ISA funds). It only oversaw the products shed taken out through it.
As the Investigator noted, the fact-finds from 2015 and 2016 show Ms X opted for focused 
advice. She thought the reason for this was that she also had an ongoing agreement with FCLLP which would review her wider financial position as her accountants. Ms X told us she 
submitted her financial documentation to it regularly.
Ms X says Mr Z told her he was due to retire and that a colleague would be looking after her 
investments and pensions in the future. I dont think this implied anything beyond the existing 
contract between the parties, encompassing the sort of transactions that had been a feature 
of the service hed provided previously.
I think there are two significant matters at the heart of Ms Xs complaint. The first is the 
change in her contract to deliver professional services to her local authority client. And the 
second was the dynamic regulations around the pension LTA.
In respect of the former, Ms X says she does not accept that improvements to her pay and 
conditions could not have been foreseen. She noted that a pay review had been outstanding 
for some time and that the expansion of her responsibilities was being considered and took 
place in 2016. 
Ms X has provided a copy of the memorandum of understanding from 2016. This was a 
framework for her to continue working while negotiations were ongoing between the relevant 
parties. Ms Xs proposal for how much she should be paid had been rejected. And a process 
for further negotiation and mediation put in place. 
So, while the memorandum evidences her remuneration package was under review, the 
outcome wasnt certain. Indeed, Ms X has acknowledged the review of her situation wasnt 
finalised until the summer of 2018.
In responding to a proposal shed received about her new remuneration package in June 
2018, she relayed her acceptance and made the following enquiry:
I can confirm I have spoken to [Mr Y] at [FCLLP] as recommendedHe has raised a 
comment about the pension contribution. Can you confirm that I will receive a non-
contributory pension supplement and what this will be? I would be happy for [you] to speak 
to [Mr Y] with regards my pay and pension to ensure that the appropriate tax payments are 
paid.
I can see that in August 2018 FCLLP sent Ms X a letter setting out the tax implications of her 
pay review. It noted that even at that point it still didnt have sufficient information to 
determine how this would impact on her with any certainty.
In January 2019 Ms X approached FCLLP again asking about one of the options available to 
her for reducing the tax payable on her excess pension savings, which resulted from the 
settlement shed agreed. It responded on 9 January, noting the option shed enquired about 
would reduce her tax bill but would also impact on her pension benefits. It said it wasnt a 
decision to be taken in a hurry and that she needed to take independent financial advice.
I note that in posing certain questions to the local authority she was providing professional 
services for about the new package of pay and conditions, it also said she should be seeking 
financial advice.
Based on the information Ive seen, its clear that Ms X engaged with FCLLP about her new 
renumeration package in 2018 and the associated tax consequences. 
Despite FCLLPs suggestion she should seek financial advice, I cant see she engaged with 
FCFP on the matter. I cant see that she informed it of the significant changes in her 
circumstances. Or that she asked for advice about the various options available to her. And Ive found no evidence that she instructed it to provide her with recommendations on how to 
proceed.
One of Ms Xs main concerns is that she will exceed her pension LTA. I note that over the 
period she had engaged FCFP and FCLLP, the position on LTA had been dynamic. And the 
direction of travel of the allowance hasnt been consistent. In 2006/07 it stood at £1.5m and it 
increased to a peak of £1.8m in 2011/12.
The Government then decided to reduce the allowance, by the time where FCFP 
recommended Ms X should make her last personal pension contribution in 2013, the LTA 
stood at £1.5m. Based on what it knew at that point about her situation and the tax 
regulations, its advice that she was able to make such a contribution without worrying about 
the LTA ceiling was reasonably founded.
From 2014/15 the Government made further reductions to the LTA. In 2015/16 it was 
£1.25m and by 2016/17 it reached a low point of £1.0m. Between 2017 and 2020 there were 
small increases to allow for inflation and the LTA now stands at £1.073m.
Given the uncertainly of the outcome of the review of Ms Xs new remuneration package, 
which wasnt settled until the summer of 2018, its not clear that FCFP was ever in a position 
to have recommended action to her to mitigate her LTA position by this point.
Ms X says the first time she saw an adviser after Mr Z retired was 18 months later in 
September 2019, after issues with her pension taxation had emerged. She said:
[FCFPs new adviser] suggested that I get advice from [FCLLP]in the past it had been 
[FCFP] who has obtained the Lifetime Allowance valuation In addition I had already 
received this advice from FCLLP. This indicated to me that there had been an inadequate 
handover and there were communication difficulties between the two companies. I therefore 
contacted [FCFP] to ascertain the position and it became clear at this point both companies 
were trying to mitigate any liability they might have. I personally obtained the values of all my 
pensions whereupon I ascertained I was potentially going to be over the Lifetime Allowance.
Ms X took early retirement in October 2020. In doing so she crystalised her main DB 
pension. She received an index linked payment of £47,589 per year, a lump sum of £66,491 
and death benefits. When she took the benefits they were measured against the then 
applicable LTA of £1.073m  shed accessed around 95% of her allowance.
The value of her remaining uncrystallised pensions, including her Scottish Widows plan was 
around £160,000 in 2021. Leaving aside I cant see that certain elements of her provision 
had been previously declared to or captured by FCFP, this meant over £100,000 of her pot 
will be subject to excess pension taxation if she accesses these benefits under current LTA 
regulations.
Ms X could reasonably have expected to have received contact from FCFP earlier than she 
did in 2019. The usual pattern appears to have been some contact between the parties each 
year around January to March. It has said when it was preparing for her annual review it had 
been told by FCLLP not to contact her. 
The Investigator said:
Whilst I dont dispute that [FCLLP] may have advised [FCFP] not to contact you at that time 
due to ill health, its not unreasonable for [FCFP] to follow this advice as [FCLLP] wouldve 
been in touch with you and wouldve known more about your personal situationMs X was sceptical that this wouldve happened. She said she was in constant contact with 
FCLLP at this time. 
Ive seen an exchange of emails from May 2019 which does show what FCFP said was 
correct. It had made the following enquiry:
I am awarethat you are currently undertaking some work for [Ms X] in relation to 
annual/lifetime allowance as I believe she has received several years of backdated pay and 
pension contributions. I just wanted to get an update as to the current status of this as I am 
due to invite her in for a review meeting
FCLLP responded in the following terms:
Dont contact [Ms X] at the moment. She is in the middle of a dispute with [her employer], 
part of which is to do with annual allowance calculations, and off sick from work. Until thats 
resolved it wouldnt be appropriate to have a review.
Theres an argument that as a separate entity FCFP shouldnt have relied on FCLLP as a 
gate-keeper to contact Ms X. But, in the circumstances, I can understand why it was guided 
by the latter given its active relationship with her.
In any event, even if FCFP had been in contact with Ms X to conduct a review, this wouldve 
again focussed on her ISA holdings  the service she was paying for. And while its possible 
shed have commissioned further work from it on a fee basis, it seems she was engaged 
with FCLLP on the matter of pension taxation. 
Further, given the timing of the settlement shed arrived at with the local authority and 
changes to LTA regulations, its not clear how any intervention by FCFP couldve alleviated 
her position here.
Ive thought carefully about the fact that FCFP was shown on Ms Xs Scottish Widows 
pension as the servicing agent. While it may not have been receiving any fees or 
commission in respect of the plan, Ive considered whether it nevertheless had responsibility 
for oversight of it. I can see arguments on both sides.
I think the deciding factor here is the substance of the relationship evidenced between the 
parties over nearly 20 years. Ive not seen FCFP was ever instructed by Ms X to provide 
advice in relation to her retirement planning. Had it been, Id expected to have seen more 
information about her objectives such as when she expected to retire, what her income 
requirements were and a more comprehensive assessment of her provision.
I think its more likely than not FCFPs involvement in her pension arrangements was always 
bounded to particular parcels of advice, such as the establishment of her Scottish Widows 
plan and making ad hoc contributions, and implementation where its recommendations were 
accepted. For this advice it received a fee. But theres no evidence she requested an 
ongoing review service across all her pension provision.
As such, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that FCFP owed Ms X 
an obligation in relation to her pension planning over the lifetime of her relationship with it. 
There was no contract between the parties for such. There were no instructions from Ms X 
with regard to providing her with advice about the matters she now complains about. And 
she hasnt paid for such a service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Ms Xs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms X to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman