DRN-3548416
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the settlement The Society of Lloyds (SOL) offered after he claimed 
under his gadget insurance for his damaged mobile phone.
What happened
Mr P bought insurance for his mobile phone online, as a non-advised purchase. He claimed 
under the policy after accidentally damaging his phone. SOL accepted his claim.
SOL was unable to repair the phone, so it offered Mr P a replacement or cash settlement. 
However, Mr P was unhappy with the replacement and the amount it offered. He paid £629 
for his phone as new, and followed the online advice when he bought the policy, which was 
to register the value as the nearest option available. Mr P registered the phone value as 
£750 and expected SOL to settle his claim to that amount or provide a new phone.
SOL initially offered £299 but it increased its offer to £489 to reflect what it would cost it to 
replace the phone with one in the same condition. SOL waived the £50 excess as a gesture 
of goodwill.
However, Mr P felt that SOL didnt provide what it shouldve done under the policy and he 
felt discriminated against because of his age and disability. He asked for the full insured 
value of £750 along with SOLs offer to waive the excess.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint. While she agreed that SOL offered to replace or 
cash settle in line with the policy, she didnt think the first offer was reasonable. Our 
investigator also said SOL failed to return Mr Ps phone when he asked, and it took a few 
weeks to offer the appropriate cash settlement. Because of the impact on Mr P, our 
investigator recommended that SOL pay Mr P £150 compensation in addition to the offers it 
had already made in its final response which was to cash settle at £489, waive the excess 
and confirm cover would be available to Mr P should he wish to accept it.
Mr P didnt agree. He remained of the view that SOL was unable to replace his phone with 
one of the same type, so he wanted the full insured value of £750, the excess waived and at 
least £150 compensation.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint, but I wont be asking SOL to do any more than our 
investigator recommended. Ill explain.
My role is to decide whether SOLs offer was fair and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Ill also consider whether theres any evidence that SOL didnt treat Mr P fairly in 
light of his comment that it treated him unfavourably because of his age and disability. I 
wont comment on every piece of evidence  our rules dont require me to. Instead Ill look at 
the complaint as a whole and comment on the evidence which I think best helps explain my 
decision.
Insured value
Mr P followed the advice to register his phones value as the nearest available from the drop-
down options when he bought his policy. The nearest options were £500 and £750, so he 
chose £750. Thats reasonable and in line with the instructions. However, the policy provided 
cover up to the insured value. If Mr P had damaged his phone beyond repair even on the 
day of purchase, he would only have been covered for the original cost, less the excess. The 
policy wouldnt have paid £750 because that wouldve meant Mr P made a profit. 
Im satisfied that SOL hasnt done anything wrong by refusing to cash settle at £750.
Replacement phone
The policy is to indemnify Mr P for his loss, which means that after making a claim he should 
have a working phone of a similar age and specification or the cash equivalent to buy one of 
a similar age and specification. SOL sourced a replacement phone of the same type but Mr 
P rejected it. He wanted a new phone of a similar specification or the full policy value.
The policy explains how SOL will settle a claim:
How we settle claims for mobile phones and games consoles.
1) Replacement Equipment - If a mobile phone/games console cannot be replaced with 
an identical mobile phone/games console of the same age and condition, we through 
our preferred suppliers, will replace it with one of comparable specification or the 
equivalent value taking into account the age and condition of the original mobile 
phone/games console. We cannot guarantee that the replacement mobile 
phone/games console will be the same colour as the original item. Where an 
equivalent refurbished item is not available, we will replace with new.
The policy provides for a new phone only if SOL cant source a comparable one. It did 
source one, so Im satisfied its offer was in line with the policy. I understand Mr P disputes 
this because the phone offered wasn't from a preferred supplier. I dont think it was wrong of 
SOL to make the offer. If Mr P had accepted the replacement phone, SOL wouldve fulfilled 
its responsibility under the policy to provide him with a working phone of similar age and 
specification. I dont think its fair to say Mr P wouldve suffered any detriment because SOL 
didnt obtain the phone from a particular supplier. However, as he rejected the replacement 
phone, SOL was entitled to offer a cash settlement instead.
Cash settlement
SOL originally offered Mr P £299 for his phone. It accepts the offer was too low and 
shouldnt have been made because it wasnt based on the replacement phone sourced from 
its preferred suppliers. Ive taken this service shortfall into consideration when deciding the 
overall compensation amount.
SOLs next offer was £489, which is what it wouldve cost it to source a replacement phone 
of a similar specification from a preferred supplier. Going back to the policy, it says:If we agree not to repair or replace an item, we will make a cash or voucher 
settlement equal to the cost we would have paid for replacement or repair through 
our preferred suppliers.
Therefore, Im satisfied SOLs offer was in line with the policy.
Policy excess
Mr P asked for the policy excess to be waived. SOL decided not to charge the excess as a 
gesture of goodwill. The policy says:
Where an excess applies, this will be taken off the amount of your claim.
In line with the policy, SOLs offer to Mr P wouldve been £489, less the £50 excess. As SOL 
agreed to waive the excess, Im satisfied it amounts to a gesture of goodwill by way of 
apology for not making the correct cash offer in the first place. Ive taken this into 
consideration when deciding the overall compensation for the service shortfalls.
Discrimination
Mr P feels SOL has discriminated and breached the Equality Act 2010 (EqA) because it 
made inappropriate settlement offers which he thinks were due to his age, despite SOL 
knowing he relied on his phone to access study support. 
I must point out that it is not my role to decide whether the EqA 2010 has been breached  
thats for a court to decide. However, Ive looked at whether SOL treated Mr P fairly. SOL 
made its low cash settlement offer after finding a replacement phone from a well-known 
supplier of refurbished phones. The offer was based on the cost to buy. I cant see anything 
about this offer which indicates SOL was treating Mr P unfairly specifically because of his 
age or disability. I agree it wasnt a fair offer, but SOL corrected that when Mr P complained. 
As Ive already concluded that SOLs other offers were fair and in line with the policy, I 
havent seen any evidence to indicate that SOL treated Mr P differently to any other 
customer in the same circumstances.
Access to phone software
Mr P complained that SOL failed to return his phone promptly when he asked for it. He 
explained he needed it to gain access to specific software to support his studies. SOLs 
records show that it received Mr Ps request but failed to respond promptly because it was 
looking at the impact of the claim value if the phone was returned. Given Mr Ps express 
request for its return, I find that SOLs failure to respond was a service shortfall that warrants 
compensation.
SOLs final offer
SOL offered to resolve Mr Ps complaint by cash settling his phone claim at £489 without 
deduction of the policy excess as a gesture of goodwill. It also confirmed the policy would 
provide cover for a refurbished replacement device should Mr P wish to continue cover.
While SOLs offer to waive the £50 policy excess goes some way to apologise for its service 
shortfalls, I dont think it adequately addresses the inconvenience caused to Mr P by its 
failure to return his old phone promptly despite him making several requests. Our 
investigator proposed a further sum of £150 and, having considered the evidence, I think 
thats fair.As a final comment, Ive noted Mr Ps extensive analysis of the terms and conditions of the 
policy, comparing them to other policies, and explaining why he thinks he shouldve been 
offered the full policy value or a brand-new phone. I see little benefit in commenting on every 
part of his analysis because I dont think it will bring him any level of satisfaction unless he 
achieves the outcome hed hoped for. I know Mr P compared the policy to other, similarly 
worded policies but I can only look at what his policy provided. And, overall, Im satisfied that 
SOL did make a fair and reasonable offer to settle his claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and The 
Society of Lloyds must:
in addition to its offer in its final response letter dated 10 March 2022, pay £150 
compensation by way of apology for the inappropriate cash settlement offer and the 
delay responding to Mr Ps request for the return of his old device.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman