DRN-2309126
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Motorpoint Limited gave her incorrect information about a 
guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
What happened
Miss S acquired a car from Motorpoint on finance. She also made enquiries about buying a 
GAP policy and paying for that in monthly instalments. Motorpoint told her the GAP policy 
premium wouldn't accrue interest, but on the day she collected the car Motorpoint told her 
that it did attract interest. Miss S asked Motorpoint to remove the GAP policy. It told her that 
if she still wanted it then she had 90 days in which to buy it. Miss S then contacted 
Motorpoint a few days later to buy the policy. It told her she could do so for £329 but shed 
have to pay that sum in one payment.
Miss S didn't think that was fair and brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional 
decision on 29 October 2020. For ease Ive reproduced my provisional findings below. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so its likely I wont uphold it.
Ive listened to a telephone call during which Motorpoint told Miss S that adding the GAP 
policy to her purchase would increase her payments by £8 (from £241 to £249) a month. 
Miss S asked if that included interest on the GAP premium. Motorpoint told her no, it just 
goes in with your payments. But in an earlier call it had told Miss S that the premium was 
£329 if she paid for it in a lump sum. So, as Miss S finance agreement was for 49 payments 
(a deposit followed by 48 instalments), that meant the total amount shed pay for the policy 
would be (£8 x 49) £392. That sum is £63 higher than the price to buy it in a lump sum. So 
it's plain that the premium was always going to attract interest if paid for monthly. And its 
equally plain that Motorpoint misadvised Miss S when it said the GAP premium wouldn't 
include interest.
Miss S is also unhappy that Motorpoint didn't make it clear to her that, when she initially said 
she no longer wanted the policy, if she decided to buy it later shed need to pay for it in full. 
But I don't think this is something Motorpoint needed to address unless Miss S asked it that 
question directly. And Ive seen that Motorpoint did consider if it could unwind Miss S 
finance agreement to incorporate the GAP premium at a later date. It decided it couldn't do 
that. But given that agreement was already in place, and it was a legally binding contract 
regarding ownership of the car, I don't think that decision was unreasonable. And Motorpoint 
apologised to Miss S for any disappointment caused as a result.
Im aware Miss S was able to secure an alternative GAP policy from a different provider. 
That policy isn't identical to the one Motorpoint would have sold her. For instance I note it's 
for the full term of her finance agreement, 48 months. But Motorpoint have confirmed that it 
would have sold a policy with a 36 month duration. Also, the policy Miss S bought has a total 
cost of around £175 payable over one year, whereas the Motorpoint policy had a full cost of 
£392 payable over four years. So, the policy Miss S actually bought is around £217 cheaper 
than the Motorpoint policy. And while Miss S premium payments are higher for the first 
12 months, she won't have to make any further payments for the next three years. Whereas, 
if shed bought the Motorpoint policy shed have still been paying for it over that period. And 
in the fourth year of her finance repayments she would have had to keep paying for the 
premium even though she would no longer have had the benefit of the cover, as that would 
have ended after 36 months.
So, while Motorpoints misadvice did cause Miss S some inconvenience I don't think shes 
been financially disadvantaged by it. And while its clearly less than ideal it gave her 
incorrect information - that no interest was payable on the GAP premium - its apologised for 
her disappointment. And I think that's a reasonable response in the circumstances. It follows 
that I'm not going to instruct Motorpoint to take any further action.
Developments 
Motorpoint accepted my provisional decision, Miss S didn't. She said shed been financially 
disadvantaged because the policy Motorpoint offered was significantly cheaper on a monthly 
basis at a time when she was struggling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Miss S said that shed been financially disadvantaged because she had to pay more per 
month for the policy she bought. Ive noted that policy was around £6 more a month than the 
policy Motorpoint offered. But those payments were only for 12 months rather than 
48 months. And the total cost to her was around 65% less than the Motorpoint premium 
Thats a significant saving. So even though Miss S did have to pay a higher sum for 
12 months, overall, shes actually better off. And Im satisfied that the apology Motorpoint 
offered was enough to put things right in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman