DRN-1676995
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) failed to prevent him from 
becoming a victim of a scam and losing £2,000 from his business account.
What happened
Mr M holds a business account with Natwest, which he uses for transactions related to his 
tutoring business. He was contacted by someone posing to be a potential client (whom Ill 
refer to as the fraudster, as it is not disputed that what happened here was an act of fraud). 
The fraudster persuaded Mr M to collect £3,100 from his credit card through a WorldPay 
merchant account after he had set up an account with them for his business. This consisted 
of a £1,000 part payment for tuition, £100 in payment fees, and £2000 for the payment of a 
limo driver, which the fraudster had asked Mr M to pay to the driver on his behalf to transport 
his children to and from lessons. After receiving the funds, Mr M transferred £2,000 from his 
Natwest business account to a personal account via online banking on 21 November 2018.
Mr M contacted Natwest on the same day he made the payment as he had concerns 
regarding whether the £2,000 transfer he made was genuine. However, he also had 
concerns regarding the funds he had received from the fraudsters credit card, and so said 
he would check with Mastercard in the first instance to determine whether the £3,100 
received was genuine. 
The £3,100 payment sent by the fraudster was later reversed via chargeback in 
February 2019, meaning that Mr M had lost the £2,000 he paid to the limo driver from his 
Natwest account. He realised he had been scammed and contacted the bank on 
18 February 2019 to report it. Natwest contacted the receiving bank, who confirmed that no 
funds remained in the beneficiarys account. 
Mr M complained that Natwest failed to prevent him from becoming the victim of a scam. But 
they declined to refund the money as they said they had automated systems in place to pick 
up on any potentially fraudulent activity, and that this particular payment didnt appear 
unusual compared with the regular account activity. They said they had no reason to suspect 
that the payment of £2,000 wasnt for a genuine purpose.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as he also didnt think Natwest had any cause 
to suspect that the payment was being made as a result of a scam. Mr M disagreed, so the 
matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no question that Mr M has been the victim of fraud. But the question that I must
consider here is the extent to which Natwest can be considered liable for his loss. I also 
need to consider whether the bank did all that it ought to have done when he reported that 
the payment was fraudulent. In this particular case Im not persuaded that Natwest should 
refund Mr M the amount he lost.
It is common ground that Mr M authorised the payment of £2,000 in November 2018, and I 
accept that it was an authorised payment even though he was the victim of a sophisticated 
scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment and, in broad terms, the 
starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that 
a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. And although Mr M didnt intend the money to go to the fraudster, under 
the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (and the terms and conditions of his account) he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
So Ive gone on to consider whether Natwest should have done more to identify the 
transaction as potentially being fraudulent and prevented Mr M from making it, because 
there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the
circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of 
character for Mr M.
To determine this, Ive looked at the statements for Mr Ms account in the months leading up 
to the fraudulent payment, to get an idea of his general account usage at the time. I can see 
that he regularly made online transfers, so I dont think the payment type was particularly
unusual for him. I appreciate the amount in question was higher than he would normally 
transfer. But I dont think the circumstances of the transaction ought to have prompted 
Natwest to question whether Mr M might be at risk of falling victim to a scam, because the 
payment wasnt so large or the circumstances so unusual (for example, it didnt clear Mr Ms 
account) that the bank ought to have contacted him to make enquiries about the payment 
before they processed it.
The Payment Service Regulations are designed to protect consumers, but also to ensure 
that banks provide services without undue delay. So, there is a balance to be struck between 
bankers identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments. I dont consider that a payment of £2,000  when considered in the 
context of Mr Ms normal account activity  is a large enough sum to have attracted 
suspicion. If Natwest were expected to intervene for every payment around £2,000, it would 
risk grinding the banking/payment system to halt.
So I dont think Natwest failed in their obligations when they didnt treat the transfer as 
suspicious, and I think they acted reasonably when they processed the payment without 
further checks.
Ive also considered whether Natwest did everything it ought to have done when the 
payment was reported as fraudulent. Mr M contacted Natwest on 21 November 2018 after 
having made the transfer, as he was concerned that it may have been fraudulent. I think the 
bank could have done more to look into matters at this point, as they may have been able to 
uncover the suspicious nature of the transaction at that point had they made further 
enquiries, rather than allowing Mr M to consult with Mastercard first to check if the £3,100 he 
received was genuine. But even if Natwest were to have taken action sooner, it would have 
made no difference in these circumstances as the receiving bank has confirmed that the 
money was withdrawn from the beneficiary account at 12:52PM on 21 November 2018, 
which was before Mr M made the call to Natwest. So any sooner attempt to recall the funds 
by the bank would not have prevented Mr Ms loss.In conclusion, I think Natwest acted reasonably by processing the payment, and I dont think 
they couldve done anything more to have prevented the loss of Mr Ms money. So, I dont 
think they need to provide a refund to him.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, and I sympathise with his situation 
as its clear he has been the victim of a cruel scam. I also note that WorldPay processed a 
chargeback of the money Mr M received from the fraudster. Its not clear why WorldPay 
would honour a chargeback in circumstances that were clearly fraudulent so, if he hasnt 
already done so, Mr M may wish to raise a complaint directly with WorldPay in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman