DRN-3106641
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way that Ramsdens Financial Limited has dealt with a necklace 
that he provided to it as security for a loan.
 
What happened
Mr C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement and pawn receipt  with Ramsdens Financial in 
February 2017 for it to provide a loan of £190 to him. He provided a necklace to it as security 
for the loan and agreed to repay the loan by a payment of £284.05 in July 2017. He didnt 
repay the loan and received a notice in January 2019 that the necklace had been sold for 
£529. The outstanding balance of his account at that time was £628.09 and there were 
further costs of £72.54 so, after the sale proceeds had been credited to his account, there 
was a deficit of £171.63 which was written off by Ramsdens Financial.
Mr C complained to it because he said that hed been told in October 2017 that the necklace 
had been disposed of and that he would have cleared the loan and redeemed the necklace if 
hed been advised correctly. Ramsdens Financial said that it believed it had acted within the 
terms and conditions of the pawnbroking agreement so it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr C 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She described in 
detail what had happened and said that Ramsdens Financial contacted Mr C a number of 
times after the pledge had expired and she couldnt see that hed made any attempts to 
redeem the necklace or that there was evidence of any mis-information being given to him 
about the necklace being scrapped. She didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to ask 
Ramsdens Financial to refund to Mr C any of the interest that was charged whilst the item 
awaited sale. 
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he went 
into the store and was told that the necklace had already been sold. He says that he goes 
into the store regularly and the staff know him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr C entered in to the fixed sum loan agreement and pawn receipt in February 2017 
and provided the necklace as security for a loan of £190;
he didnt make the payment of £284.05 that was required in July 2017 to repay the 
loan so Ramsdens Financial sent him a notice to sell letter about the necklace later 
that month  and it says that it tried to contact him by phone three times without 
success;
Mr C says that he asked whether the necklace was still available in October 2017 but 
was told that it had been disposed of  Ramsdens Financial says that it has no 
record of any such enquiry being made and that the necklace was sold in January 
2019;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Ramsden Financial 
gave any incorrect information to Mr C about the necklace in October 2017 and I 
dont consider it to be likely that it would have told him that the necklace had been 
disposed of when it was still available for sale;
I consider that Ramsdens Financial has acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of its agreement with Mr C and Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that it has acted incorrectly in these circumstances;
it has applied the proceeds from the sale of the necklace to Mr Cs account but, after 
adding interest and costs, there was a deficit of £171.63 which it has written off; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Ramsdens Financial to 
refund any interest to Mr C, to pay him any other compensation or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman