The complaint
Miss K complains that Nationwide Building Society removed her from an account.
What happened
Miss K acted as power of attorney for a third party and was added to the account in this 
capacity in November 2018. In March 2019, Miss K applied to be added to the account as a 
joint account holder. Nationwide say the application form had not been completed fully. 
When Miss K went into branch she was told that she had been added as a joint account 
holder, which was confirmed in writing at the beginning of May. At the end of May 2019, Miss 
K was notified that she could not be added as a joint account holder given that she was 
acting as power of attorney for the other account holder at the time.
Nationwide have apologised for giving incorrect information to Miss K.
Miss K says she lost out because she had no access to the funds in the joint account, when 
the third party passed away.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She explained that she could only consider the 
administrative errors around adding Miss K to the account. As Miss K had not been entitled 
to be added as a joint account holder at the time, our investigator thought Nationwide had 
done nothing wrong in returning the account to the original account holders name. But our 
investigator did think Nationwide had caused Miss K inconvenience and distress by not 
giving the right information. She recommended a payment of £100 to compensate for this.
Miss K disagrees with the view, so the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I would like to say that I dont underestimate Miss Ks strength of feeling about 
this matter. But its worth explaining that we provide an informal dispute resolution service. 
We have no disciplinary or regulatory powers, so we cannot tell a business how to operate.
I have taken into account that as Miss K was acting as power of attorney for the third party, 
she wasnt entitled to be added as a joint account holder. So I cant fairly say that Nationwide 
did anything wrong in reverting the account to the third partys name only. Any issue around 
entitlement to the funds in the account is a matter between Miss K and the executors of the 
late third partys estate.DRN-1138672
I agree Miss K was given misleading information. And Ive seen that Nationwide have 
apologised for this. I consider that it is fair and reasonable to compensate for the distress 
this has caused. On balance, I consider that £100 is a fair and reasonable award.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I'm partially upholding the complaint. I direct Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Miss K £100 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman