DRN-3135846
The complaint
Ms T complains that her home insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited, hasnt dealt with her claim 
properly under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms T complained about damp in her property, and from April 2020 Aviva dealt with this as a 
leak/escape of water claim from her bathroom. It sent loss adjusters to inspect the damage 
and they arranged contractors to attend. Two reports were provided about Ms Ts home and 
these refer to damage to the bath and shower waste as due to a leak. The leak was 
repaired, and Ms Ts home was dried out. 
While this was happening, Ms T had to move out of her home for some time and when she 
returned, she complained about the state the contractor had left her home in. Whilst the work 
was underway Ms T asked about a gulley and made requests for the drains to be repaired.
Although the loss adjusters referred to an issue with the drains, there was no mention of this 
in the expert reports they obtained, and they said it was due to a building defect which 
wasnt covered by the policy. 
Following the repairs and drying out of Ms Ts home in around October 2020 she reported 
that damp had returned to the same places as before and she could smell sewage. Aviva 
initially tried to assure Ms T there was no further problem with her claim. But Ms T pursued 
her concerns and arranged for her home emergency insurer to inspect her home and they 
identified a problem with her septic tank to Aviva and Aviva agreed to investigate this further.
The loss adjusters described this as a separate issue concerning the septic tank and 
accepted this as a new part of her existing claim and so didnt charge Ms T a second excess 
payment. They appointed contractors to move the septic tank and repair the damage in the 
property again.  
Ms T complained to Aviva about the time taken to identify the damp within her home and to 
do the repairs and the quality of the repair work.  
Our investigator said Ms T previously complained to our service about the claim and repair 
works, but this is now resolved. The investigator decided the present complaint should only 
concern Ms Ts initial claim about the escape of water at her home. Ms T has a separate 
complaint for the second part of her claim. 
The investigator said the damp that returned to Ms Ts home was due to a different cause 
from Ms Ts original claim, as the previous issues were repaired, and the property dried out. 
She thought Aviva could have accepted the septic tank problem earlier but was pleased it 
waived its second excess. For the failed reinstallation of Ms Ts shower, she said Aviva 
should pay Ms T £100 compensation. The investigator arranged for Aviva to contact Ms T 
about the outstanding aspects of the work, but Aviva said no new points were raised when it 
did this.
Aviva agreed with the investigator, but Ms T did not. She said the smell of sewage had been 
very strong and some of the repairs hadnt been finished properly. She thought more 
compensation should have been offered for having the driers in her home and having to 
paint outside areas. Ms T requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is limited to Ms Ts escape of water claim and I have looked at whether the 
compensation offered is fair. Ive looked carefully at Avivas handling and decisions on Ms 
Ts claim to see if it acted within the terms of her policy and to see if it has treated her fairly. 
Ms Ts policy covers her for damage from an escape of water and Aviva accepted her claim 
under this policy peril. It investigated to try and determine the cause of the damp and 
obtained an expert drainage report in April 2020. This included a CCTV survey and stated 
there was no problem or blockages and no work was required. There were also two further 
expert reports from April and May 2020, that indicate there was an escape of water in Ms Ts 
bathroom and this was taken as the cause of the damp and appropriate repairs followed. 
I havent seen any evidence of a problem with the drainage or septic tank in Ms Ts home at 
this time and so I havent found that Aviva has acted unfairly about the claim or caused any 
delay. The first problem with the escape of water in Ms Ts bathroom had been dealt with by 
the time Ms T raised the dampness again in November 2020. Upon further assessment in 
December 2020 the septic tank was found to have failed, and repairs were required.
Theres no reason Ive seen why these problems might be linked and nothing to show that 
they were operating at the same time and were ignored by Aviva. In the circumstances the 
investigator is correct to say Ms T would have needed to raise two claims for the escape of 
water in the bathroom, and then the problem caused by the septic tank. Aviva caused Ms T 
some confusion and delay by assuring her there were no further problems linked to her claim 
when she raised the new issue in October 2020, and so Im pleased that Aviva has dealt 
with the two claims as one without collecting a second excess payment from Ms T.
I ve considered whether Aviva caused any further delays when dealing with this second
part of the claim. Aviva arranged for a claims management business to attend and this 
happened without unreasonable delay. Ms Ts septic tank was then emptied, but she didnt 
receive an update and pursued her claim in February 2021. Aviva explained that it was 
awaiting a septic tank expert to deal with the claim. 
Aviva authorised the work, but the records show it had difficulty in appointing qualified 
contractors to do the work and the covid pandemic didnt help. The work was difficult as 
there were drainage issues requiring a different pump. The installation was complete by the 
end of July 2021.
Although it took Aviva about seven months from acceptance of the claim for all work to be
completed, there was plenty of activity in pursuit of the claim. Ms T was able to live at home 
during this time without the level of disruption she faced when the previous repairs were 
undertaken. I havent seen evidence of avoidable or unreasonable delay due to the 
pandemic or drainage problems and I dont think Aviva needs to do anything further here.
Ms T was concerned about the smell from the tank and the suitability of the contractors 
Aviva appointed to carry out the work. Aviva was satisfied the contractors were qualified to do the job and I havent seen anything to challenge this. Overall, I think Aviva has dealt with 
Ms Ts claim fairly though I sympathise with her for the smell at the time.
I was sorry to learn that water started to pool in Ms Ts bathroom. Aviva investigated and 
found this due to failed seals around the bathroom shower. The shower had been removed 
and reinstalled as part of the original claim and so I dont think an effective and lasting repair 
had been completed as required. 
Im pleased that Aviva dried the property out and offered to pay £37.12 for Ms Ts additional 
electric costs. I agree with the investigator for the additional distress and disruption Ms T 
experienced about her shower leak and her fear of having to move out again during drying 
out and repairs, Aviva should pay her £100 compensation. This compensation includes the 
impact on Ms T of the small delay in Aviva accepting the second part of her claim. Ive taken 
account of Avivas waiving of the second excess charge that would normally have been 
payable. 
Ms T has more recently referred to issues with the repairs and handling of her claim that 
occurred after Aviva sent her its final response to her complaint. She can raise these as a 
new complaint with Aviva if she wishes. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Ms T £100 compensation for the impact its delays 
and having to re-fix her shower had upon her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman