DRN-1980015
The complaint
Mr E complains Royal Bank of Scotland plc will not refund some disputed transactions.  He 
also complains about the service he received when he complained and that it unfairly closed 
his account.
What happened
Mr E complained about a number of transactions carried out on his account between 13th 
and 15th November 2019. Some of these were contactless, others chip and PIN and some 
ATM withdrawals.  Mr E said he hadnt carried out these transactions and was now in 
financial difficulty because he had nothing left in his account. 
RBS rejected Mr Es complaint and said it was going to hold him liable for the transactions.  
It gave us the following chronology in explaining why it had come to this decision:
-9th August 2019: Mr E opens the account. On the same day a PIN is sent to his home 
address;
-12th August 2019: the corresponding card is sent to his home address;
-15th August 2019: Mr E complained about four disputed transactions on his account 
amounting to £600.  He said he had not received the card and PIN for the account.  
The money is refunded.  On the same day a new card is sent to his address and for 
security, a new PIN is sent into a branch;
-13th October 2019: Mr E complains a Get cash transaction of £130 was not made by 
him.  This is refunded and a further card issued.  As the PIN sent to branch from 
August 2019 had not been collected, this is destroyed;
-5th November 2019: Mr E orders a new card and PIN.  Both are dispatched to his 
home address via Royal Mail;
-7th November 2019: Mr E withdraws £100 via the Get cash facility leaving the 
account empty;
-13th November 2019: Mr Es benefits are paid in amounting to £1160.67;
-13th  15th November 2019: disputed transactions are carried out amounting to 
£1161.27. Mr E complains and says he hadnt received his card and PIN which was 
ordered on 5th November.
When our investigator considered Mr Es complaint, he didnt think he could ask RBS to 
refund the money from the disputed transactions.  However, when he looked at how RBS 
handled Mr Es complaint, he thought it could have done more.  For the poor service, our 
investigator thought RBS should pay £250 and cover Mr Es call costs of £117.  RBS agreed 
to this, but Mr E did not  he made further submissions and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules which govern these transactions are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017.  Amongst other things, they say if a consumer has not authorised payments on their 
account, they are entitled to have the money refunded.
In this case, RBS needs to show that not only were the payments from Mr Es account 
authenticated  but that he also consented to the payments being made.
Authentication can be shown by the use of Mr Es card and PIN  so I am satisfied from the 
evidence I have seen that the transactions were authenticated.
What I need to decide now is whether Mr E consented to these payments  and in doing so, 
I take account of everything I have seen and read.   The crux of Mr Es complaint is that he 
should not be responsible for the transactions because he had not received the card and 
PIN.  
On balance, I have seen nothing to suggest RBS has been unfair in holding Mr E liable for 
these transactions.  I say that for the following reasons:
-on Mr Es account, a total of three cards and two PINs have been intercepted 
successfully by a fraudster and used to make transactions.  I dont think that is 
plausible.  Mr E lives alone and has young child stay with him on occasions.  I accept 
there is a communal area where the post is left  but for a fraudster to have 
intercepted his mail, they would need to know the items are being sent, when they 
are going to arrive and arrange to intercept them on particular days.  On balance, I 
dont think thats likely;
-Mr E had made two previous complaints about disputed transactions in a relatively 
short timeframe.  He did not mention he had any issues with his post to RBS.  I think 
if he did have such issues, he would have been likely to mention them and to ask for 
all cards and PINs to be sent to a local branch;
-Mr Es online banking records show he had logged on during the time of the disputed 
transactions.  He would have seen his balance had decreased by quite a substantial 
amount  yet does not raise this with RBS.  Mr E says he does not recall logging on 
but the evidence shows he did.  I think it is more likely than not that he would have 
seen the reduced balance;
-the disputed transactions begin once Mr Es account is in credit.  Yet this is done 
without a balance enquiry to check if there are any funds in the account.  I dont think 
its plausible (as Mr E suggests) that the same fraudster who intercepted his card and 
PIN was also able to access post regarding his benefits;
-the transactions then stop when there is no money left  again no balance enquiry 
having been conducted throughout.  It is unlikely a fraudster would be able to use up 
all the funds in an account without knowing what was in there in the first place;
So, for these reasons, I wont be asking RBS to refund this money to Mr E.  Ive considered 
his account of events and dont find it to be credible.  I think he made these transactions 
himself or authorised someone else to do so.
Turning then to the account closure and customer service issues.  I think the investigator has 
explained clearly that RBS is entitled to close Mr Es account  its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. I wont repeat those here.
In terms of the customer service element, I think the current offer of £250 plus the £117 is 
not only a fair and reasonable sum  but a generous one too.  I certainly would not be 
looking to increase on this amount.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Royal Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr E £250 for the poor service he received and £117 
for the cost of calls - £367 in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman