DRN-2726000
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) did not ask him 
about his mental health at the time of the application. Mr N says the lender would not have 
issued the loan had it known about his mental health and financial struggles.
What happened
Mr N took a £300 instalment loan from Dot Dot Loans in October 2019. The loan was to be 
repaid in three monthly instalments, the highest instalment being £152.49. The last 
correspondence from Dot Dot Loans shows Mr N ran into some difficulties repaying his loan 
and an outstanding balance remained. But Mr N has since told our service that he has 
repaid his loan in full.
In March 2020, Mr N contacted Dot Dot loans and told it hed been suffering from mental 
health issues at the time that he had taken out his loan, and that these health issues had 
impaired his judgement. Mr N sked the lender to write off any interest and to remove any 
negative information it had reported about the loan on his credit file.
Dot Dot Loans responded to Mr N and did not uphold his complaint. It said that, because 
Mr N hadnt made them aware of his mental health issues at the time of the application, and 
the loan was shown to be affordable, it didnt feel that it had acted unfairly by offering him the 
loan.
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ns complaint. She didnt think Dot Dot Loans were 
wrong to approve Mr Ns loan, based on the information it gathered about his financial 
circumstances at the time.
 
Our adjudicator also considered the information Mr N had told us about his mental health. 
But she was unable to conclude that Dot Dot Loans was aware of Mr Ns mental health at 
the time of his application. As Dot Dot Loans wasnt aware of Mr Ns situation until he made 
his complaint, the adjudicator couldnt conclude it had done something wrong by approving 
the loan at the time.
It appears that Dot Dot Loans agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mr N disagreed and provided the following complaint points;
The assumption made by Dot Dot Loans about his mental health was incorrect at the 
time of them issuing the loan.
The mental health and financial difficulties Mr N was experiencing at the time meant 
that he was in no fit position to keep up with repayments. 
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr N could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot 
Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for Mr N. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint. 
Dot Dot Loans says Mr N applied for his loan through a third-party loan provider. After 
receiving Mr Ns application, Dot Dot Loans asked him to declare his monthly income and 
expenditure. And it also completed a credit check.
Mr N declared that he was receiving a monthly income of £1,800. The information he 
provided about his monthly expenditure amounted to £225 per month. But Dot Dot Loans 
checked Mr Ns expenditure against national averages and it therefore revised his declared 
amount upwards to £828. This would have left Mr N with a monthly disposable income of 
£972 from which to meet the monthly repayments of no more than £152.49. 
So, I think the information Mr N provided about his circumstances and the revised 
information Dot Dot Loans recorded suggested Mr N could comfortably meet the loan 
repayments.
When Dot Dot Loans completed a credit check, I think the information it was presented with 
wasnt likely to have led to it either declining the application or led it to believe that further 
checks needed to be carried out. 
Whilst Mr N had an outstanding loan and revolving credit balance, this wasnt unusual. The 
credit checks results showed Mr N had no outstanding short-term loans at the time. And there was no other concerning information which suggested Mr N could not meet the 
repayments he was committing to such as defaults or delinquent accounts. 
I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on the 
information Dot Dot Loans knew about Mr N, that meant it needed to verify the information 
Mr N was telling it.
Im sorry to hear that Mr N was struggling mentally and financially at the time of his loan 
application. From the information he has provided about his circumstances it seems that he 
was going through an extremely difficult time and repaying the loan has proved problematic. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit Rulebook (CONOC) outlines what is expected from a lender  
here Dot Dot Loans  with regards to mental health. CONC 2.10.4 says;
A firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the 
decision has to be made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it 
reasonably believes should know, or reasonably suspects, that the customer 
lacks capacity. 
And CONC 2.10.6 outlines some illness that may indicate mental capacity and CONC 2.10.8 
provides grounds which may indicate a customer may have some form of limitation. Having 
looked at this list, I dont think that Dot Dot Loans wouldve realised at the time the loan was 
lent that Mr N was having health problems.  
Ive reviewed the information provided by Mr N when applying for the loan. Having done so, 
Im satisfied that Mr N didnt advise Dot Dot Loans at the time of his application that he was 
suffering with mental health issues. Dot Dot Loans was only aware of Mr Ns circumstances 
when he complained to it after his loan was issued. 
So, I dont feel that it is fair to ask Dot Dot Loans to refund any interest and charges Mr N 
paid towards his loan or to amend his credit file. I say this because Im satisfied that the Dot 
Dot Loans completed sufficient affordability checks and I think it was entitled to rely on the 
information it was given at the time of the loan application, without needing to carry out 
further checks. And Ive been given no evidence to suggest that Mr N actually lacked mental 
capacity, as understood in legislation, in October 2019.
So, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint about his loan. I appreciate this will be disappointing 
for Mr N. But I hope that hell understanding why Ive reached the decision that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman