DRN-3959668
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt refund him for several disputed 
transactions. 
What happened
Around April last year, Mr R contacted Barclays because he didnt recognise some activity 
on his account. He says several direct debit indemnities were raised for payments hed 
made  which included his phone bill, rent, car finance and university tuition fees. 
Mr R says he didnt make these indemnity claims. Following the funds for these claims being 
returned to Mr Rs account, several payments were made to third-party payees. Mr R says 
he didnt authorise these payments.
Barclays didnt agree to refund the disputed payments. The bank said it found no evidence 
of Mr Rs account being compromised. It concluded that Mr R was liable for the payments 
because these were made using Mr Rs mobile banking app. Mr R didnt agree and asked 
this service to review his complaint.
Mr R says:
He believes his phone was hacked by a fraudster, who raised the indemnity claims 
and later paid out the funds for these claims into another account.
He doesnt recognise the payees the funds were sent to.
He didnt notice any unauthorised activity on his account until he received a letter 
regarding the indemnity claims. He says he expected funds in his account around the 
time, so he wasnt suspicious when the funds from the claims were credited to his 
account.
He received several welcome messages on his mobile banking app, even though he 
hadnt reinstalled the app.
He hasnt granted anyone access to his phone, his card has remained in his 
possession, and he hasnt shared his security information with anyone. Mr R says he 
did share some details with a prospective loan provider in February 2022, but 
decided to stop his application, as he was concerned about the level of information 
being requested.
Hes not been scammed, nor has he been asked to make a payment to someone.
Hes been financially impacted because he now owes money to the businesses the 
indemnity funds were claimed from.
Our investigator concluded that Barclays decision was fair. Mr R doesnt agree and remains 
adamant that his phone was hacked. He also points to the indemnity claims, which he 
believes were made over the phone  he thinks the calls should be listened to in order to 
establish that he didnt make them. 
Because Mr R disagrees, his complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays can generally only hold Mr R responsible for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests it was more likely than not that he authorised them. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think its most likely that Mr R, or someone he authorised, carried out these transactions  Ill 
explain why.
Ill start with the direct debit indemnity claims Mr R says he didnt raise. Mr Rs testimony 
seems rational to me  it doesnt add up that he would initiate indemnity claims against 
payments hes made for essential components of his everyday life, such as his rent and 
university fees. Mr R says he was told by Barclays that the claims were raised over the 
phone, but this doesnt seem to be the case. Barclays most recently told us that the claims 
were made either via Mr Rs mobile banking app or via its website. The banks own notes 
indicate the claims were submitted online.
Although I cant say for certain how the claims were raised, it seems most likely to me that 
Mr R, or someone with his consent raised these claims. Barclays has sent information about 
the details that are needed to raise an indemnity claim. This includes Mr Rs account and 
debit card details, address, contact number, email address and transaction details including 
the reference of the payment from his statement. Mr R hasnt pointed to anything that would 
suggest these details were compromised and I think its unlikely that anyone other than Mr R 
would have access to all this information. So Im not persuaded that someone other than 
Mr R raised these claims without his knowledge or consent.
Turning to the disputed payments made to third parties, whom Mr R says he doesnt know. 
Barclays has sent us Mr Rs mobile banking log-in information  this shows me that it was 
Mr Rs device that was used to log in and carry out the disputed payments. The banks 
records show that each log in was made using Mr Rs passcode; a detail that Mr R says 
hasnt been shared with anyone.
I can see that his mobile banking was logged in to using other devices around the time and 
new devices were also registered on his account. But the data shows that it was only Mr Rs 
device that was used to make the actual payments and each new device registration seems 
to have been preceded by a log in from Mr Rs own device  indicating to me that Mr R likely 
authorised these registrations. 
Barclays says to register a new device, Mr R wouldve needed essential details about his 
account, including an SMS that wouldve been sent to his phone or his debit card alongside 
a PINsentry device. Given that no-one other than Mr R has access to his phone and his 
debit card, I think its likely that Mr R carried out the registration of new devices around the 
time. This also provides a possible explanation for Mr Rs submission that he received 
numerous welcome messages on his mobile banking app around the time  the dates of 
these messages seem to coincide with new device registrations a few days prior. 
The third parties the disputed payments were made to were new payees. Barclays has 
shown us that, to set up new payees via mobile banking, the security number on Mr Rs 
debit card would need inputting. As I pointed out, Mr R says his card hasnt been compromised. I cant see how someone other than Mr R wouldve been able to obtain these 
details without his consent. So it seems most likely that Mr R, or someone with his consent 
created the new payees on his account. 
Mr R remains adamant that his device was hacked by a fraudster. He says he spoke to a 
third-party telecommunications company that gave him information about how fraudsters 
couldve accessed his device. However, neither Mr R or Barclays have given me evidence 
which shows Mr Rs phone was likely hacked or was being used through other remote 
methods by fraudsters.
For his device to have been hacked, there needs to be a clear point of compromise that I 
can point to. A fraudster is unlikely to be able to hack into Mr Rs phone without some sort of 
action on his part. But Mr R confirms he hasnt had any suspicious emails or messages, his 
banking information isnt written down anywhere and his phone hasnt been accessed by 
anyone other than himself. So there doesnt seem to be a clear point of compromise that 
would allow a fraudster to hack into Mr Rs phone. 
So its difficult for me to fairly conclude that Mr Rs device was hacked in the way he says it 
was. I also think its unlikely an unauthorised individual was able to carry out the transactions 
without having actual access to the device, Mr Rs banking app and the passcode for it, as 
well as his debit card.
Mr R suggests his information may have been compromised when he enquired about 
making a loan application around February 2022. He says he became suspicious of the 
information hed been asked to provide and decided not to go any further. But this doesnt 
suggest his phone was compromised at the time nor does it provide an explanation of how 
someone was able to obtain his card details and the details needed to raise the indemnity 
claims, as well as create new payees. I also think its unlikely that a potential fraudster would 
wait several months to fraudulently remove funds from Mr Rs account.
The pattern of activity with the disputed payments also makes me think its unlikely Mr Rs 
phone was hacked. The disputed payments were carried out over different days and tend to 
follow on shortly after funds credited Mr Rs account. This wouldve required regular 
monitoring of Mr Rs account, which I find is unlikely. Moreover, this isnt typical of the 
opportunistic activity of a fraudster  which is to quickly maximise the fraudulent removal of 
funds in one instance. 
In conclusion, despite what Mr R has said, the information Ive seen makes me think its 
most likely that Mr R, or someone with his consent carried out the disputed payments. I 
empathise with Mr R, given hes been pursued for the funds related to the indemnity claims. 
But Im not persuaded that Mr R didnt authorise the payments he now disputes.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman