DRN-3767280
The complaint
Mrs M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) is refusing to refund her the 
amount she lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mrs M had been involved in an investment from 2015-2018. The business she 
was invested with had gone into liquidation and Mrs M was unable to retrieve the money she 
had invested. 
Other people had also invested in the same business and lost their money, so a support 
group on Facebook had been created where many of the investors had gathered to share 
their individual circumstances and offer support to each other.
Mrs M was contacted via the Facebook group by an individual I will call X. X explained she 
had been able to recover the funds she had lost though the investment with help from 
another business called Prime Recovery (PR).
Mrs M checked out Xs Facebook and Twitter pages which seemed genuine before clicking 
on a link sent by X and inputting her contact information.
Mrs M was then contacted by PR and the process of recovering her funds was explained. 
The information provided by PR was very persuasive as it mirrored information Mrs M had 
seen elsewhere. PR explained that it would take its fee from the money it recovered for her. 
This gave Mrs M further confidence in the service PR was providing.
PR explained that to receive funds Mrs M would have to open a numbered bank account. 
Mrs M did some research about numbered accounts and received help from a member of 
the Facebook group in opening the account with Credit Europe Bank. Mrs M was required to 
make a large deposit into the account for it to be opened which she did. This turned out to be 
part of the scam.
Mrs M was then asked to make several more payments as part of the processes needed to 
release the funds, via different methods that included using Banxa, a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange.   
Mrs M made the following payments in relation to the scam using her debit card via Banxa:
1. 15 March 2021 - £8,000
2. 15 March 2021 - £7,000
3. 15 March 2021 - £1,900
4. 15 March 2021 - £300
5. 23 March 2021 - £10,000
6. 23 March 2021 - £14,000
Mrs M tells us she became aware she was falling victim to a scam when police got in touch. 
Mrs M has not been able to recover any of the payments she made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mrs M made in relation to 
this scam to Banxa.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mrs M was dealing with the scammer, which was the business that instigated the scam. But 
Mrs M didnt make the debit card payments to the scammer directly, she paid a separate 
cryptocurrency exchange (Banxa). This is important because NatWest was only able to 
process chargeback claims against the merchant she paid (Banxa), not another party.
The service provided by Banxa would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mrs Ms payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Banxa provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mrs M paid. As Banxa provided 
the requested service to Mrs M any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Mrs M has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Banxa, so the starting point 
here is that Mrs M is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether NatWest should have stepped in when Mrs M was attempting 
to make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking 
place.
The payments Mrs M made to Banxa were for a significant amount, to a new payee. So, I 
would have expected NatWests fraud prevention systems to have been triggered, and for 
NatWest to have had a meaningful conversation with Mrs M to uncover any scam that was 
currently taking place.
NatWest says its fraud prevention systems were triggered and a call took place between 
NatWest and Mrs M. Mrs M says NatWest only asked her to confirm she was making the 
payments, but no other questions were asked. NatWest has been unable to provide a copy 
of the call. None of the other payments triggered NatWests fraud prevention systems.
Our Investigator spoke to Mrs M directly when she was looking into this complaint. Mrs M 
said the scammer had told her, that when she was making payments, she should tell the 
banks they were for property investment and that it was up to her what payments she 
wanted to make from her accounts. We have also been provided with a call recording from when Mrs M attempted to buy Bitcoin 
in the same way from another account she held at a different bank. She explained at the 
time she was dabbling in bitcoin and knew exactly what she was doing. She also said no 
one else was involved in the payments despite the banks representative asking several 
times. This was not accurate and disguised the true reason for the payment.
I think Mrs M was being coached by the scammer and I am not confident NatWest would 
have uncovered the scam had it had a meaningful conversation with Mrs M about the 
payments she was making.
Mrs M has told us she wasnt coached in relation to the payments she was making to 
NatWest, and she would have answered any questions honestly. But Mrs M has already 
demonstrated she was willing to disguise the reasons for previous payments she made from 
other accounts by giving the explanations provided to her by the scammer.  So, I am not 
convinced Mrs M would have given an accurate account of what was happening if NatWest 
had an appropriate conversation with her.
As I dont think a meaningful conversation between NatWest and Mrs M would have 
uncovered the scam, I dont think NatWest missed an opportunity to prevent the scam taking 
place. So, NatWest is not responsible for Mrs Ms loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman