DRN-3394949
The complaint
Mr C complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (British Gas) handling of a claim made 
under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr C holds a home emergency policy with British Gas. Under this policy he made a claim in 
for a leak coming from the cold-water tank in late 2017. British Gas contractors fitted two 
water tanks and replaced an overflow pipe. Mr C believed this resolved his claim.
In 2021, Mr C had a survey carried out on the property. This survey identified damage to the 
roof, and Mr C believed this was likely to be caused by British Gas contractors when they 
fitted the overflow pipe. Mr C says as well as roof tiles being dislodged, water entered the 
property and damaged the spare room. He complained to British Gas, believing the damage 
was most likely caused when its contractor carried out the repair to the cold-water tank.
British Gas arranged for two contractors to visit Mr Cs home. Their overall conclusion was 
that they werent responsible for the damage caused to the roof tiles. Unhappy with this, Mr 
C referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint. She said neither side had been able 
to provide evidence to show what state the roof was in before the overflow pipe was fitted. 
So, on balance, she thought it would be more likely than not the damage to the roof tiles 
around the overflow pipe occurred when it was being fitted. She said to put things right, 
British Gas either needed to carry out the repair or British Gas could consider the cost of 
independent quotes obtained by Mr C, and pay the value of these. 
British Gas didnt agree so this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas initially declined the claim on the basis Mr C already had an ongoing claim with 
his home insurer for damage to his roof. However, as British Gas now knows, the home 
insurer isnt considering the claim for the roof damage. I think it would also be helpful to 
clarify Im not considering the state of the entire roof. My role here is to decide if I think it is 
more likely than not that the damage Mr C has complained about is as a result of the earlier 
works carried out by British Gas.
British Gas also said it wouldnt move forward with Mr Cs claim, telling us it thought the roof 
was in a poor state of repair. I can see there from the images provided, there seems to be a 
number of slipped tiles across the roof.  
However, when looking at the section of the roof around the overflow pipe there is significant 
disruption around the pipe. This disruption includes gapping of tiles, with some large gaps 
where tiles have been lifted. While there are slipped tiles on other sections of the roof, the 
appearance and layout of the tiles around the overflow pipe are not consistent with any 
slipped tiles on rest of the roof. This has been supported by the independent contractor Mr C 
asked to inspect his roof. The contractor said they had investigated the leak on the roof, and 
they believed this was caused by the removal of the pipe. British Gas hasnt provided any 
persuasive explanation as to why the tiles around the overflow pipe look so 
Overall, I consider on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not the tiles around 
the pipe were dislodged and damaged by the pipe being replaced in 2017. It follows, on the 
balance of probabilities, its more likely than not that this led to damage in the upstairs of Mr 
Cs home
British Gas says it wasnt aware of any damage caused by earlier works. Ive considered 
whether Mr C could have done more to mitigate the damage caused by water entering the 
property. It seems clear from the photographs provided at the time of the original repair and 
later that Mr C doesnt use his loft often, so Im not persuaded that he could reasonably have 
known there was damage until he saw evidence of water damage in his house and 
considered the results of the survey.
Im satisfied there was damage caused to Mr Cs property as a result of the tiles being 
displaced when the overflow pipe was fitted by British Gas. And there has been damage to 
Mr Cs property as a result of this. To put things right, I require British Gas to repair the 
damaged roof tiles around the overflow pipe and repair any damage as a result of water 
entering Mr Cs property from these damaged tiles. 
If British Gas decides it shouldnt carry out the repairs, British Gas can pay Mr C the 
equivalent amount it would cost him to have the repairs carried out, as long as he provides 
two quotes for it to consider. If there is a difference between the two quotes, British Gas can 
pay the lower of the two quotes.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint. To put things right, I require British Gas Insurance Limited to take 
the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman