DRN-2282171
The complaint
Mr R complains that Profile Financial Solutions Limited (PFS) has treated him unfairly. In 
particular, he says it charged an ongoing service charge despite not carrying out any annual 
reviews since 2016.
What happened
PFS gave Mr R pension advice in 2015. In 2016 Mr R contacted PFS about transferring an 
occupational pension. It appears that PFS told Mr R that it couldnt give advice on 
transferring occupational pensions as it didnt have the necessary permissions to advise on 
pension transfers. PFSs records show that it agreed to contact Mr R when it was authorised 
to give advice on pension transfers. It also noted that Mr R didnt want an annual review 
unless it could advise him on transferring his occupational pension.
Mr R says he didnt hear anything further from PFS. In September 2019 Mr R complained to 
PFS. He said that despite not having heard from it since 2016 it had continued to apply an 
ongoing service charge.
PFS said it had emailed Mr R offering to carry out an annual review in 2017 and 2018. It said 
it had sent the invitation in 2019 late and it offered to refund part of the ongoing service 
charge to compensate Mr R for the delay in contacting him about his 2019 review.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with PFSs response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
explained that he was facing very difficult personal circumstances at the time and he felt 
PFS should have followed up its emails in writing when it didnt receive a reply.
Our investigator said she felt the offer PFS had made was fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. She noted that PFSs terms of business set out that the ongoing service charge 
was for:
 Annual monitoring of funds by PFS for quality and suitability
 Annual opportunity to assess any changes in your circumstances or attitude to risk
 Annual update and information regarding holdings
She noted that PFS had emailed Mr R in August 2017 and May 2018 offering to carry out a 
review of the investment performance and to update the information it held about his 
personal circumstances.
The email said:
As its now the anniversary of us switching your pension we want to keep you informed on 
how your investment is doing and make sure your pension is working as well as possible for 
you.
She noted that Mr R said he felt PFS should have followed up the emails it sent in writing, 
but she said there was no requirement on PFS to do so. She said she was satisfied that the 
emails were sent to the correct email address. As this was the case, she said Mr R could 
have contacted PFS if he had wanted an annual review. 
She noted that PFS accepted that the annual review invitation it sent in 2019 was late. To 
compensate Mr R for this delay it had refunded part of the ongoing service charge (£31) and 
offered to pay Mr R a further £25 for the trouble and upset the delay had caused. She said 
she felt this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view. He said PFS should have provided him with an 
annual update and information regarding holdings, regardless of whether an annual review 
was carried out.
He also said he felt very strongly that PFS should have followed up the emails it sent in 2017 
and 2018, in writing, when it didnt receive a reply.
Our investigator said that she felt the email invitations that were sent to Mr R made clear that 
Mr R would be provided with information about his holdings at the review meeting. She also 
reiterated her view that PFS wasnt required to follow up its emails in writing.
Mr R remained unhappy with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Rs position. I appreciate that he was dealing with very difficult 
personal circumstances. I can see that it would have been helpful if PFS had sent written 
reminders about the annual reviews available when it didnt receive a reply to the emails it 
sent in 2017 and 2018.
But as our investigator explained, there was no requirement on PFS to send follow up 
reminders by post, or email, when it didnt receive a response from Mr R to its email offering 
an annual review. As this is the case I cant reasonably say that PFS did anything wrong 
when it didnt follow up its emails in writing.
I appreciate that Mr R feels PFS should have sent information about his holdings, regardless 
of whether the review meetings went ahead. I have carefully considered the wording in the 
terms of business. Having done so, I cant reasonably say that PFS committed to provide an 
annual update and information regarding holdings in writing, in addition or instead of a 
review meeting. In reaching this view I have taken into account that the invitation PFS sent 
inviting Mr R to request an annual review, explained that information about his holdings 
would be provided at the meeting.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr R was hoping for, but I cant require PFS to 
refund the ongoing service charge when it offered Mr R an annual update in-line with its 
terms of business.
I note that PFS had already refunded £31 in fees to compensate Mr R for the delay in 
sending a review reminder in 2019. It has also offered to pay Mr R a further £25 for the 
trouble and upset caused by the delay in sending out this reminder. I simply leave it to Mr R 
to decide if he now wishes to accept this offer.
My final decisionMy decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. I 
note that, in addition to the £31 PFS has paid Mr R, it has also offered to pay him a further 
£25 for the trouble and upset caused by the delay in sending out his 2019 review reminder. I 
simply leave it to Mr R to decide if he now wishes to accept this offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman