DRN-1757127
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a 
claims management company. 
 What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was added to 
Mr Ss credit card account when he applied for the card by post. The policy covered him for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed. 
His representative said, on his behalf, that if Mr S had understood what the policy was, he 
wouldn't have taken it because he had enough cover through his employee benefits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint because: 
Tesco Bank has provided a copy of Mr S's postal application form. The form includes a 
separate section about payment protection. Although it does not specifically say that PPI is 
optional, I consider it is reasonably clear, from the need to tick a box, that it was not a 
requirement of applying for the credit card. Mr S has ticked the box to show that he wanted 
his payments covered. Overall, I think Tesco Bank made Mr S aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it. 
Tesco Bank didnt advise Mr S to take the policy so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for him. But it did need to provide enough clear information for Mr S to decide for himself if 
the policy was appropriate for his circumstances. He's told us he would have received six 
months full pay followed by six months half pay from his employer if he couldn't work due to 
sickness or an accident. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to these benefits and for 
up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim. So, particularly when his employee 
benefits reduced to half pay, it could have been a useful benefit. It also covered Mr S if he'd 
become unemployed. 
Its possible the information Tesco Bank gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr S chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced. So I think it unlikely  despite what he says now  that Mr S would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman