DRN-4076474
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain they were given conflicting information about the interest rate on 
their mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. They say they werent warned 
that a concessionary rate on their mortgage was ending, and they were charged more.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs A, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr A. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr A was previously employed by Halifax, and as such, was entitled to a concessionary 
mortgage rate. He complained that he was given conflicting information about the rate he 
was due to pay on his mortgage, in late 2022. He said he received a letter in early November 
saying his concessionary rate was due to end, and he would need to pay around £1,400 per 
month from December. Mr A said that didnt leave him enough time to set up a new 
mortgage before he went onto Halifaxs much higher Standard Variable Rate (SVR). 
Mr A said then, only a couple of days later, he got another letter, telling him his new 
mortgage payment was a little over £1,000. Mr A wanted the most recent monthly payment 
information hed received, to be honoured by Halifax. 
Mr A said he hadnt been able to plan for the upcoming payments. And he told us that his 
mobile banking app still said he was on a concessionary rate.
Mr A said hed complained about the conflicting information he received, and Halifax at first 
failed to log his complaint, then it had taken a very long time to get back in touch. When it 
finally did so, it upheld his complaint about the conflicting advice, but it didnt do anything 
about this. 
Halifax said that the forms Mr A signed when he took out this mortgage show that this 
concessionary rate is an employee benefit, which will end if his employment ends. There 
are, however, some arrangements for the rate to continue for a short period after leaving, 
depending on the reason that the persons employment ended. In Mr As case, this meant he 
would be entitled to stay on this rate for an additional 12 months after he left. 
Halifax said it sent Mr A a letter dated 25 November 2021, which explained that he could 
keep the concessionary rate for his mortgage for 12 months. Then he would move to the 
SVR. It issued a second letter, dated 14 Oct 2022, saying this mortgage can remain on the 
staff rate, if Mrs A was a member of Halifaxs staff. It invited Mrs A to email, using her work 
address, if she was employed by Halifax. And Halifax said that if it didnt hear from Mrs A, 
the mortgage would move onto the SVR from December 2022. A third letter, on 7 November 
2022, told Mr A that the staff rate would be removed from his mortgage on 1 December, and 
it told him the monthly payment he would make from then. 
When Halifax wrote to Mr A about his complaint, it said that it was sorry it had sent him some 
wrong information after this. It said this was just because letters crossed over between his 
staff rate ending and his mortgage reverting to the SVR. It repeated that if Mrs A was 
employed by the bank, it could reinstate the rate and backdate it. Otherwise, it invited Mr A 
to talk to it about the different mortgage products it could offer. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Halifax had made a 
mistake, because it had sent Mr A a letter telling him about the interest rate payable on his 
concessionary mortgage, just before it was due to be removed. But he did think Halifax had 
told Mr A that this rate would end, in letters sent in November 2021 and in October 2022. 
And Halifax had apologised now, and offered to reinstate the rate if Mr and Mrs A could 
show they still qualified for it. Our investigator didnt think Halifax had to do more than this. 
Mr A didnt agree. He spoke to our investigator, and said he didnt receive either of the 
letters Halifax sent before November 2022. He said he didnt have an exit interview when he 
left Halifax, and because none of these letters were received, he wasnt expecting this 
concessionary rate to be removed. Mr A also said there was an error in the address that 
Halifax was using for him, he thought this might be why the earlier letters hadnt arrived. 
Finally, Mr A said if he was only entitled to this concessionary rate for 12 months after he 
left, why was it still in place well after this? 
Mr A said that sending a letter about this in early November 2022 didnt give him enough 
time to take out a different mortgage. And he said Halifax does have other ways to get in 
touch with him, which it uses, so he thought Halifax was wrong to rely on only one method of 
communication for something as important as this. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. This complaint was then passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I should start out by saying that Im satisfied Halifax has applied its own policies for 
concessionary mortgage rates fairly in this case. I can see that Halifax allows former 
employees in Mr As position to keep this rate for while after leaving its employment. I 
understand that Halifax has in fact allowed Mr and Mrs A to remain on this rate for a little 
longer than the 12 months Halifax promises. But I dont think having previously made this 
error in Mr and Mrs As favour means that Halifax cant remove this rate now.
I understand that Mr A has been very frustrated, by what he feels is very late notification of 
changes to his mortgage. I can appreciate that he may not have recalled the form he signed 
when taking out this mortgage rate in 2018, which makes clear that this rate is reserved for 
employees, and will end if employment ends. So, if he also didnt receive the letters dated 25 
November 2021 and 14 October 2022 telling him when this rate would end, then the letter 
dated 7 November 2022 did give him very little time to arrange a new mortgage.
But I dont think that what has gone wrong here is Halifaxs fault. Im satisfied that the 
address Halifax has used for Mr and Mrs A identifies their home sufficiently that I would 
expect post to be received. So if it wasnt, then I dont think that Halifax is to blame for that. I 
know Mr A would have liked Halifax to also communicate with him through other means, like 
email or secure message, which he says it already uses to contact him about other issues. But I think, having written to Mr A twice about this issue, that Halifax had done enough to 
remind Mr A of the terms hed previously agreed to, for the concessionary rate. 
If Mr A didnt get the two earlier letters warning him about the change to his mortgage 
interest rate, then I dont think Halifax has to maintain the concessionary rate for him, 
because of this. 
Mr A said that it was difficult to lodge a complaint with Halifax, and then it took a long time to 
respond. But as our investigator explained, I cant consider a standalone complaint about 
complaint handling. And I think it was clear from the point when Mr A tried to raise his 
complaint, that his previous concessionary rate was coming to an end. So I dont think the 
delay in Halifax providing formal confirmation of that has caused further detriment in this 
case.
I know Mr A will be very disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman