DRN-3902052
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has handled his motor 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr D has a motor insurance policy, insured through Admiral. Mr Ds car suffered windscreen 
damage and so he made an appointment at one of the insurers recognised repairers and 
arranged for his vehicle to be dropped off. When he was advised the car was ready for 
collection, he says he was told that the garage was closing shortly, and as he was unable to 
get there in time, he arranged for the keys to be collected and the vehicle placed outside.
Later that evening, Mr D went to collect his car. He said that not long after driving off the 
premises, a warning light relating to the tyres came on. He stopped the car and saw that one 
of the rear tyres was flat and a front tyre had a bulge in the wall. He had to have them 
replaced. Mr D believes this damage was caused by the repairers and so he complained to 
Admiral.
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the issue with the tyres was not due to its 
workmanship. Unhappy with this, Mr D brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter, but she didnt find that there was any evidence that this was caused 
by the repairers. So, she didnt think Admiral had to do anything more.
Mr D disagreed with our investigator. He said that Admiral and its repairers had a duty of 
care for the car and that when it was collected it was damaged. He said that as the damage 
occurred on their premises, the repairers, and ultimately Admiral, had not taken reasonable 
care. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D believes that the damage to his tyres occurred while the vehicle was being repaired. 
Admiral has said there is no evidence to show the vehicle was damaged while in the care of 
the repairer. I must therefore consider the evidence available to decide if Admiral has 
reached a fair and reasonable outcome.  
And having looked at all of the information available, Im not persuaded that Admiral needs 
to pay for the cost of the new tyres. Ill explain why.
Mr D has said that he had left the repairers premises when the tyre warning light appeared 
on his dashboard. While I appreciate Mr D has said the warning light appeared just a short 
distance away, it doesnt mean that the damage definitely occurred during the time the 
vehicle was in the care of the repairer. Mr D has referred to a plastic shard being in the back 
tyre  but this could have been picked up when he drove away from the garage. It doesnt 
appear Mr D inspected the vehicle before driving it away.  
In addition, Admiral has provided inspection reports from the repairer which were completed 
both before and after the repair. Neither of these reports show any damage to the tyres. And 
the repairer has confirmed that the calibration completed after the windscreen repair would 
also have picked up any tyre irregularities. 
Im aware that Mr D feels that Admiral and its agents had a duty of care for the vehicle while 
it was with them, and I agree with his comments. However, without evidence to show that his 
car was damaged while being repaired, or before being parked ready for collection by Mr D, I 
dont think it would be fair for me to ask Admiral to pay for the new tyres.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman