DRN-2951247
The complaint
Ms M complains about the sale of an accident, sickness and unemployment (ASU) cover 
policy by Andrews Estate Agents Limited (Andrews).
What happened
On 12 June 2019 Ms M took out ASU cover through Andrews alongside her mortgage. It 
was an advised sale and the policy went live on 13 June.  
When she became redundant around 19 June, Ms M made a claim on the unemployment 
section of the policy. But her claim was turned down by the insurer. The insurer said that 
there had been a redundancy consultation period before the start of Ms Ms policy, so it felt 
she had already been aware she might lose her job before the policy was taken out.  
Ms M said shed made it clear to Andrews from the start of their discussions she wanted the 
policy to be live from the date she exchanged contracts on 30 May, rather than the date of 
completion on 13 June. She said if Andrews had carried out her instructions then her claim 
wouldnt have been declined. 
Andrews said the documentation clearly set out the date the policy started. And there wasnt 
any evidence to show Ms M has asked for cover to begin when she exchanged contracts. 
Ms M remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into things and concluded there wasnt any evidence to suggest Ms M was led to 
believe shed be covered at the date of contract exchange. So she didnt think Andrews had 
done anything wrong.  
Ms M disagreed and said cover should have started on the date she exchanged, and shed 
tried to contact Andrews by phone before the exchange date. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Andrews was required to provide customers with clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the insurance policy. And as this an advised sale they needed to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the insurance was suitable for their customer. This would include 
establishing if they had a need for it and whether they had cover elsewhere that could 
provide the same benefits.
Suitability
This policy provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment and was taken out 
alongside Miss Cs mortgage. I havent seen anything to suggest she had alternative cover 
elsewhere and Miss C tried to make a claim on this policy so Im satisfied she had a need for 
this cover. 
Miss Cs application form for the insurance was filled out over the telephone. The notes 
provided by Andrews about the discussion that took place indicate Ms M spoke about her 
needs and Andrews took her through the exclusions of the policy - including what wouldnt 
be covered under unemployment. 
From the information Miss C provided on the call, it didnt look like Ms M was significantly 
affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover. She agreed to the cost and I havent 
seen anything to suggest she told Andrews at the time it was unaffordable. So, on balance 
Im persuaded the policy was suitable for Miss C. 
Start date of the policy
The issue here is when the policy went live. Ms M said she told Andrews the policy needed 
to be in place by the exchange of contracts on 30 May 2019. But the sale of the insurance 
didnt take place until 12 June and Ms M was aware of that. Usually a policy wouldnt be 
backdated so its not clear why she thought she wouldve been covered for the period before 
the policy was taken out. 
Ive considered the correspondence between Andrews and Miss C leading up to the date of 
sale. On 18 April Miss C emailed Andrews to ask for quotes for ASU policies, she said this 
shows she wanted cover as soon as possible. Andrews responded to say that now she had 
her mortgage offer they needed to turn their attention to protecting the mortgage when she 
exchanged contracts. Ms M said this led her to believe shed be covered from the
exchange date.
But I can also see an email the following month dated 20 May where Miss C apologised for 
not arranging a call for the insurance. So Im persuaded at this point she was aware the 
insurance still hadnt been arranged - ten days before the exchange of contracts.
Miss C said she then tried to call Andrews to arrange the insurance, but I havent seen any 
records of these calls. On 5 June (after the exchange had already taken place) Miss C sends 
an email to Andrews that says: 
Hope you are well. Ive exchanged and completion is due on 13th June. Please I
will call you this afternoon to discuss the insurances.
She then spoke to Andrews on the phone on 6 and 7 June to discuss all her insurance 
policies - including her ASU. On 12 June her application form was completed, and the policy 
went live the following day. So Im not persuaded Miss C made it clear the policy should 
have been in place on 30 May and Andrews made a mistake. Therefore I dont think its 
reasonable to say theyre responsible for Miss Cs claim being declined. 
Ms M has told us Andrews made a catalogue of errors throughout the mortgage process and 
asked if Andrews was regulated to provide mortgage advice at the time of sale. This 
complaint is solely about the sale of the ASU insurance policy - and the sale of insurance 
was regulated at the time Miss Cs policy was sold. Our investigator has advised Miss C she 
would need to raise any issues about the sale of her mortgage with Andrews in the first 
instance to deal with separately.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman