DRN-4014323
Complaint
Mrs J has complained about a personal loan Fairscore Ltd (trading as Updraft) which she 
says was unfairly lent to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Updraft provided Mrs J with a loan for £3,000.00 in August 2021. This loan had an APR of 
28.31% and the total amount to be repaid of £4,312.00, which included interest fees and 
charges of £1,312.00, was due to be repaid in 35 monthly instalments of £118.58 followed 
by a final instalment of £161.70.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs J and Updraft had told us. She thought that 
Updraft unfairly provided this loan to Mrs J and recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
Updraft disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My provisional decision of 9 February 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 9 February 2023 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mrs Js complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started out by saying that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks 
complaint.
I then explained that Updraft needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is that Updraft needed to carry out proportionate 
checks to be able to understand whether Mrs J could afford to make her repayments before 
providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Updraft said it approved Mrs Js application after she provided details of her monthly income 
and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information 
on a credit search it carried out which showed Mrs Js existing commitments were relatively 
well maintained at the time. In Updrafts view all of the information it gathered showed that 
Mrs J could comfortably afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other 
hand, Mrs J has said she was already in difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
I carefully thought about what Mrs J and Updraft said. 
It was clear that Updraft had obtained a reasonable amount of information before it decided 
to proceed with Mrs Js application. And I thought that this information did appear to suggest 
that the loan repayments were affordable for Mrs J. I did accept that Mrs Js actual 
circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the information she provided, or 
the information Updraft obtained. And I knew that our investigator was concerned that Mrs J 
could re-establish balances on her credit cards as they remained open after this loan was 
arranged. 
However, Updraft could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. It wont have known whether Mrs J would go on to re-establish 
balances on her credit cards  all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely on 
assurances from Mrs J that the balances would be repaid with the funds it was providing. So 
I was satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to clear     
Mrs Js existing credit card balances. 
While I noted our investigators concerns regarding Mrs Js credit cards remaining available 
to her, I didnt think that Updraft could close Mrs Js credit card accounts to prevent further 
spending. This is because they were held with other providers. It was Mrs Js responsibility 
to close her credit card accounts once shed repaid them. 
And as this was a first loan Updraft was arranging for Mrs J, there wasnt a history of Mrs J 
obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way she committed to 
either. So Updraft was reasonably entitled to believe that Mrs J would be left in a better 
position after being provided with this loan.
I accepted that it was possible that if Updraft had gone into the depth of checks Mrs J 
appeared to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  it might have 
reached a different answer. But the key here thing was that I didnt think the circumstances 
of the lending here warranted obtaining bank statements. Updraft was arranging a loan for a 
relatively small sum  especially when compared to Mrs Js income. 
Given the circumstances, I would have expected Updraft to have a reasonable idea of        
Mrs Js income and committed non-discretionary spending, which it did here, rather than a 
complete review of Mrs Js finances. Furthermore, Mrs J hadnt provided anything which 
clearly demonstrated further checks would have shown the loan payments were clearly 
unaffordable either.
Furthermore, I explained that it was only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a firm did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the 
lack of obvious inconsistencies, I didnt think that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have extended into the level of checks Mrs J was suggesting. As this was the case, I 
didnt think that Updraft did anything wrong when lending to Mrs J - it carried out 
proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I was minded to conclude that Updraft didnt 
treat Mrs J unfairly or unreasonably when lending to her. And I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mrs Js complaint. Responses to my provisional decision
Updraft confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and that it had nothing further to 
add.
Mrs J didnt provide anything further for me to consider, or ask for any additional time to do 
so either. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in 
order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
I set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs Js complaint in my provisional 
decision of 9 February 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still not upholding Mrs Js complaint. 
I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mrs J  especially bearing in mind our 
investigators initial assessment said that she shouldnt have been provided with this loan. 
But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her 
concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint, I would remind Updraft of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should Mrs J be experiencing difficulty and it 
choose to collect payments from her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 9 February 2023, Im 
not upholding Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman