DRN-3179826
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the settlement of his claim made under a motor insurance policy 
in 2021 by UK Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Direct Line.
What happened
Mr Gs car was in an accident. UKI deemed it to be beyond economical repair and paid Mr G 
£1,135 in settlement of the claim. This represented UKIs opinion of the market value of the 
car at the time of the accident (£1,485), minus the policy excess (£350).
Mr G was unhappy with UKIs settlement of his claim, and brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator initially considered that UKI should settle the claim based on a market value 
of £2,421.50. In response, UKI highlighted that Mr Gs car had twice previously been 
declared a total loss by insurers, in 2016 and 2019. UKI stated that when valuing the car, it 
was reasonable to apply two deductions of 20% each to the prices in the valuation guides, to 
reflect these two total loss incidents.
The investigator asked Mr G for further information about his knowledge of the two total loss 
incidents. Mr G explained that he had bought the car in 2018. He said that he hadnt been 
aware the car had been declared a total loss in 2016, but that he had made the 2019 
insurance claim. Mr G stated that the 2019 claim was the result of the catalytic converter 
being stolen. He had retained the car at that time and paid for repairs.
The investigator issued a further assessment to the parties. His view was that it was 
reasonable to deduct 20% from the guide valuations to reflect a likely decreased market 
value for the car due to the 2016 total loss. However, he didnt consider it fair to apply a 
further 20% deduction for the 2019 total loss, on the basis that the second loss was non 
structural, and all the necessary repairs had been carried out.
From three trade guides, the investigator obtained an average valuation for Mr Gs car of 
£2,311. He then deducted 20% to reflect the 2016 total loss, and proposed that UKI should 
settle the claim based on a market value of £1,848.80, less the policy excess.
UKI disagreed with the investigators assessment. It stated that when it settled the 2019 
claim as a total loss, it made Mr G aware of the previous total loss claim in 2016. UKI also 
stated that in 2018 when he bought the car, Mr G could have carried out searches which 
would have led him to discover it had previously been declared a total loss. Its view was that 
a car written off twice before would be worth less than one written off once before. UKI 
commented that deducting 20% for a single total loss was a well established approach to 
take when valuing a vehicle, and consequently it was fair to apply that deduction twice for 
two total losses.
Because UKI disagreed with the investigators findings, this case has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a car is deemed to be beyond economical repair following damage to it, Mr Gs policy 
allows for UKI to pay the policyholder its market value at the date of the loss. The market 
value is defined as the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model 
and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
In calculating its offer of settlement to Mr G, UKI consulted trade guides, and it also applied 
two deductions of 20% each due to the car being declared a total loss twice. Our investigator 
also looked at trade guides to determine what represents a fair market value for Mr Gs car. 
Trade guides carry out extensive research to find the likely selling prices of particular cars. I 
consider it reasonable to take into account the values provided by these guides when 
determining what the fair market value of a vehicle is.
Our investigator found three valuations for Mr Gs car from the trade guides of £2,090, 
£2,475 and £2,368. He averaged these values to £2,311, and considered it was fair to 
deduct 20% from this figure to reflect that the car had been declared a total loss in 2016. 
This reduced the value to £1,848.80. As this was significantly higher than the market value 
figure of £1,485 that UKI had used to settle Mr Gs claim, the investigator proposed that UKI 
should now settle the claim using this higher figure.
UKIs position is that it was reasonable for it to deduct a further 20% to reflect the cars 
second total loss claim in 2019.
I accept that a vehicle that has previously been declared a total loss can put off potential 
buyers, affecting its value. I also agree that when calculating a market value for a car subject 
to a new insurance claim, it is often fair to deduct in the region of 20% from trade guide 
values to reflect the impact of a previous total loss. And I accept UKIs comments that when 
buying the car in 2018, Mr G could have carried out searches on its history. On balance, my 
view is that it was fair for UKI to apply a 20% deduction to the market value to reflect the 
2016 total loss.
But Im not persuaded that having a car written off for a second time necessarily results in its 
market value dropping by an additional 20%, on top of the 20% deduction for the first total 
loss. In my view, its not clear that a potential buyer who is willing to purchase a car which 
has previously been written off once by an insurer would particularly be put off if they were 
made aware that the same car had experienced a second total loss, or would demand a 
further price reduction for that second loss. And notwithstanding that, I have considered what 
the impact on Mr Gs cars price might have been as a result of the circumstances of the 
2019 total loss claim.
My understanding is that the 2019 total loss was not structural, and resulted from the theft of 
the catalytic converter. Mr G has said that he arranged successful repairs following this 
incident. Overall my view is that UKI has not demonstrated that the market value of Mr Gs 
car would have been reduced by a further 20%, on top of the 20% deduction already taken 
into account, because of the 2019 loss.
My conclusion is that UKIs market valuation of Mr Gs car at £1,485 did not result in a fair 
settlement of his claim. I consider it would have been fair to base the settlement on a market 
value of £1,848.80. As the difference between these values is £363.80, UKI should now pay 
this amount to Mr G, plus interest.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr G £363.80 plus 8% per annum simple interest from 
the date of loss to the date of settlement. If UK Insurance Limited considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from this interest, it should tell Mr G how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022. 
John Swain
Ombudsman