DRN-4002850
The complaint
Mr B complains that Leeds Building Society (Leeds) were unable to resolve his password 
reset issues and they provided him with poor customer service. 
What happened
Mr B received a maturity email for a fixed rate bond he held with Leeds which was due to 
mature shortly. He says the email advised him that he could provide maturity instructions by 
logging into his online account, so Mr B tried to do this, but he says he received a message 
that the password was invalid and then his account was locked. Mr B says he attempted to 
ring the call centre, but they were closed and there was no mention of their opening hours, 
so he called again the next day and the call handler managed to key instructions to transfer 
his maturing bond to a new bond upon maturity. 
Mr B was then transferred to a department to reset his password. Mr B says that the call 
handler sent a link to reset his password five times, but it said the link had expired, whereas 
the link shouldve been valid for 24 hours. He says the call handler told him that he would 
email him back when he knew how to fix this, but he received two voicemails the following 
day despite an email being agreed. Mr B made a complaint to Leeds. 
Leeds did not uphold Mr Bs complaint although they offered to send him a hamper to 
recognise any distress the issues had caused him. Leeds said that the issue with the 
password reset may have been because Mr B had two account profiles and one of them 
wasnt set up for online access. They said they have corrected this for Mr B, by merging 
them into one, so this should help once the password is unlocked. Leeds provided the 
telephone number for Mr B to contact them on. They also explained some email providers 
dont accept them as a safe service, so they gave him two options to resolve this. Leeds 
explained to Mr B where he could find their call centre opening times on their website and 
they explained their process of notifying customers of their maturing accounts no less than 
14 days before maturity. Mr B brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said the password issue occurred when 
Mr B set up a new bond in 2020, and he didnt tick the box to confirm he was an existing 
customer, which generated a new customer number for him. He also said Leeds had 
provided Mr B instructions to work around the password reset issue. 
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that Leeds refused to sort out his password reset email as the link kept 
expiring. He said the call handler who sent him the link suggested to copy and paste the link 
into his browser, but the same thing happened, and he was going to investigate and come 
back to him. He offered to call Mr B, but Mr B says he asked him to email him instead. He 
said the offer of the hamper was insulting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr B that it is not within this services remit to tell a business to make 
changes to their policies or procedures, for example how long prior to the maturity of an 
account they should notify their customers, or to tell a customer their opening hours on a 
pre-recorded message when their call centres are closed. It would be the role of the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Leeds to make 
changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
I must explain to Mr B that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Leeds have investigated his 
complaint, such as how theyve handled his complaint or the offer of a hamper instead of 
financial compensation do not come under my powers to consider. 
Ive considered the events that led up to Mr B being able to log into his account online. 
Unbeknownst to Mr B, he had two customer profiles. Leeds say that this would occur when a 
customer doesnt tick the box to say they are an existing customer, when they already have 
had accounts with them, so a new customer profile is created. This appears to be the reason 
why the password originally failed for Mr B when he tried to log in, which is stated in the 
response letter to his complaint. As a result of this, Mr Bs account was locked, so he rang 
Leeds to resolve this.
Ive listened to a call recording which Mr B had with Leeds. He gave the call handler his 
account number, so this would be linked to one profile and the call handler would not have 
been reasonably aware he had two profiles at this time. He arranges the rollover of his 
maturing bond into a new bond then he asks if an email can be sent to him for him to reset 
his password. The call handler transfers him to another department for this. Mr B tells the 
new call handler that he needs his password reset. The call handler sends him a link, but Mr 
B tells him when he clicks on the link it says your reset link has expired. The same thing 
happened on another two occasions so the call handler spoke to a colleague to see if they 
could assist Mr B. 
Mr B is given a proposed workaround. He is told that when he gets the email, if he copies 
and pastes the link into the address bar it should work. Mr B explains that it wouldnt work 
because of the issues hed already had about the link expiring. The call handler says he 
understands. Mr B tells the call handler that they would need to go away and sort it out and 
he asks the call handler can I leave that with you? The call handler responds of course, 
would you like us to send that link back out to ya, or would you like a call back to notify you 
to say that its been sorted? Mr B says send the link out when its valid. The call handler 
says ok, thats fine, no worries Mr (B), well do that for ya. 
So here, Mr B was expecting the link to be emailed to him when the issue had been 
resolved. But instead, he got two voicemails from phone calls to him. Ive considered why 
this was. Looking at the notes Leeds left on the system regarding the voicemail they sent Mr 
B, this was because they needed to be on the phone with Mr B while he took certain actions. 
So the notes show that they left a voicemail for Mr B to ring them back. While Mr B wanted a 
link emailed to him, Im not persuaded Leeds were unreasonable to attempt to ring Mr B 
when they were unable to just send him a new link. Although I appreciate that it was 
inconvenient for Mr B to take their calls, Leeds were unable to do what Mr B instructed them 
to do, so they tried to ring him to talk him through what needed to be done.  Leeds emailed their final response to Mr B. So he did receive an email of what had 
happened and what he needed to do. They explained they had merged the two profiles into 
one, so this should have helped once the password was unlocked. The response says 
Unfortunately were unable to change your password and they gave a number for him to 
call them. While Mr B didnt want to change his password as such  as he wanted this 
resetting, a change was needed to his password  for it to be unblocked, so it could be reset. 
So Im persuaded that it should be clear that Mr B still needed to call them to resolve this. 
Not only did the letter reinforce that they couldnt change the password, but the voicemails 
would have also made it clear he needed to give them a call. So they were unable to send 
him a new link as they needed to speak to Mr B to unlock the account and they wanted to 
make sure everything was working while he was on the phone. 
I know Mr B feels that the offer of a hamper is insulting. But Leeds have followed their 
process from letting him know no less than 14 days prior to maturity that his bond was 
maturing, they also took his instructions to move his money into a new bond upon maturity 
(which he later cancelled), they tried to send him the password reset link while he was on the 
phone - unbeknownst to both parties that he had a separate customer profile. Leeds also 
tried to contact him to let him know what was happening (and the call handler who rang Mr B 
to resolve the issue and left voicemails wouldnt be aware that Mr B told a complaint handler 
that he only wanted emails from them). They then explained in their response to Mr B an 
issue with the email provider Mr B used and a suggestion to add this to a safe sender list, so 
the email wasnt scanned by them  and in effect the scan acted as him using the link. 
So apart from Leeds leaving two voicemails as opposed to emailing Mr B for him to call 
them, Im not persuaded that Leeds made any errors that would warrant compensation being 
paid to Mr B over and above what they have already offered. Although the staff member who 
tried to call him twice would not be aware of the separate arrangement with the complaint 
handler, I would expect this to have a minor impact on Mr B receiving two voicemails about 
the password reset process  not his complaint. So Im satisfied that a hamper is a fair offer 
for the complaint handler not leaving a flag on his account regarding his contact preferences 
 which they have now done. So it follows Ill be asking Leeds to send Mr B a hamper, but I 
dont require them to do anything else.
My final decision
Leeds Building Society has already made an offer to send Mr B a hamper to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Leeds Building Society should send Mr B a hamper. But I dont 
require them to do anything else. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman