DRN-2026679
The complaint
Mr F says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr F was sold a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2000. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. The policy ended in 2005 when the mortgage account was closed.
Mr F is also unhappy with how his complaint was dealt with. In particular, he was told over 
the phone that he would be receiving a settlement of over £4,000. When this wasnt received 
and he chased this up, he was told that hed been told that in error and his complaint would 
not be upheld.
NatWest says the PPI wasnt mis-sold. But it apologised for the error mentioned above and 
paid Mr F £100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint because:
The sale took place over the phone. Theres limited information available from the time of 
sale, so I dont know exactly what happened. Thats understandable given how long ago 
it was. But I think that what is available suggests Mr F wouldve most likely been asked 
whether he wanted PPI. And I can see that he signed a direct debit mandate specifically 
for the PPI. So, I think its likely that NatWest made Mr F aware that he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. As such NatWest wouldnt have had to ask Mr F about his medical history or check 
what other means he had available to keep up with his mortgage repayments if he was 
unable to work. 
I think NatWest couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr F would still have bought it  given its costs and the benefits it provided. 
Its possible NatWest didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But I think 
Mr F wouldve still bought the PPI if it had. While he says he had some medical 
conditions, it seems these hadnt caused him to have any significant time off work. So, I 
dont think the exclusion of pre-existing medical conditions wouldve put him off buying it. 
Mr F says he had a significant amount of savings  enough to pay off the mortgage in full 
if he was unable to work. And that he didnt use these savings to buy the house as the 
interest or returns on investment he received at that time was more than the mortgage 
interest. But Mr F says he used those savings to pay make overpayments over the years 
and fully pay off the mortgage in 2005. And hes been unable to evidence that he had 
those savings in 2000. So, I cant be sure that he had those savings, or that he didnt 
agree to the PPI despite having them. So, I dont think I can reasonably uphold the 
complaint based purely on what Mr F has told us.
The regulators rules on non-disclosure of high levels of commission and profit share 
dont apply in this case, because the mortgage ended in 2005. So, NatWest doesnt have 
to refund any commission or profit share that it may have received. 
NatWest made a mistake when telling Mr F that he would receive a settlement. Its 
unclear how that happened. But Ive seen no evidence that an offer of settlement to Mr F 
was ever considered by NatWest (other than the £100 gesture of goodwill it has paid 
him). And the amount of over £4,000 far exceeds what Mr F wouldve received had the 
complaint been upheld and a full refund of premiums plus interest been paid to him. The 
total premiums he paid for the PPI were less than £370.
Mr F thinks the conversation where he was wrongly told about the settlement constitutes 
a binding agreement or contract, and that NatWest should pay him the amount 
mentioned during the call. But Im not persuaded that is the case. I think Mr F was given 
false expectation of receiving a specific settlement, and that the £100 payment that 
NatWest has already made is sufficient to recognise the impact of that and the other 
issues he had when making the complaint. 
Ive taken into account Mr Fs comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided that the £100 payment NatWest has already 
made to Mr F is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman