DRN-2982507
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1993. Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1993 Mr A took out PPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Absent complete 
records, it is assumed things happened during a branch meeting.
The policy provided protection for Mr As mortgage payments in the event he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 12 
months per claim and it cost a little under £15 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr A was employed and he said he was entitled to less than three 
months sick pay and had the equivalent amount in savings he could have used to make the 
repayments on his mortgage. Mr A said he had no health problems at the time.
BoS records show the mortgage account ended in 2010.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said the evidence 
showed that Mr A chose to take out PPI and there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him.
Because Mr A disagrees  he says he did not know he had the policy - the complaint comes 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs XX complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr A have a choice about PPI? 
did he agree to take it out?
Mr A says he didnt know he had the policy. But taking everything into account I think Mr A 
chose to take out the PPI  although I can understand why he cant now remember doing so.
BoS has provided a copy of Mr As mortgage application from 1993. Looking at this I can see 
there is a section of the form titled Mortgage Payment Guard which after a brief outline of 
the nature of the insurance asked: Do you wish the Bank to arrange this cover on your 
behalf? And Mr A was invited to tick one of two boxes  either Yes or No  to accept or 
decline the cover. I can see there is a tick in the Yes box. The form doesnt say or imply that 
Mr A had to take out PPI - so if he didnt want the cover he couldve ticked the other box. 
It also appears Mr A had to complete a separate application to formally take out the policy  
albeit BoS hasnt provided a copy of this. 
So taking everything into account, I think Mr A chose to take out PPI and likely did so without 
undue pressure. But as I said above, I can understand why Mr A doesnt remember doing so 
 it was after all nearly 30 years ago.
the advice
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr A. This means BoS had to check that the PPI was 
right for Mr A  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he was eligible for the cover, he wasnt affected by the significant 
exclusions to or limits on the cover such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances, and despite his existing means I think he still had a need for 
cover. The policy was protecting Mr As mortgage and ultimately his home and I think he 
would have found the policy useful had the insured risk become a reality.
the information  
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr A 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been  for example the mortgage application 
only provided a brief outline of the nature of the cover. But as I found above, I think he likely 
chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And as I said above, based 
on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for him - so it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr A off 
taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While BoS might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mr A PPI, in light of his circumstances at the time I think the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him. And because it wasn't wrong for him, I don't think better information from 
BoS would've put him off taking it out.
This means I dont think Mr A has lost out as a result of having PPI, so BoS doesn't have to 
pay back to Mr A what he paid for PPI
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said - including what he said in response to the 
adjudicator's assessment. But these points dont change my decision. 
Mr A has said that if he had known about the policy, the first thing he wouldve done when he 
lost his job was talk to the bank about it. I dont know how long after the sale this was  Mr A 
hasnt said. But as Ive found above, I think he chose to take out PPI and so was reasonably 
aware he had it.
On the point Mr A makes about the discrepancy in the dates of the copies of BoS final 
response letter  Mr As is dated a week later than BoS copy  I dont know why this is the 
case. It could be a recording issue or maybe BoS systems generated the letter twice. But ultimately this isnt important to the overall outcome of this complaint  so I dont need to 
consider this point further.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, I don't uphold this complaint and I make no award in Mr 
As favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman