DRN-2704133
The complaint
Mr J is complaining about how JLM Mortgages Services Ltd (JLM) handled his mortgage 
application and also that it breached data protection regulations. He wants about £8,000 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he says it caused.
What happened
Mr J wanted to buy a part share in a property through D, a housing association. D had a 
working relationship with JLM and its appointed representative EF. This decision is about 
JLM as its responsible for its own actions and those of EF. Wherever I refer to JLM that 
includes EF.  
Once Mr J had passed some initial criteria, D suggested Mr J contact JLM about sourcing 
and applying for the mortgage he needed from a commercial lender. It also told him JLM 
would assess whether Mr Js application met government regulations (that is the share he 
could buy, the deposit required, affordability and his mortgage offer). 
In summary, JLM acted for D but also for Mr J as a financial intermediary (often called a 
broker).
JLM approached a bank (N) for a mortgage on Mr Js behalf  but N wouldnt issue an 
Agreement in Principle (AIP). Mr J noted there was some incorrect information on his credit 
report  and took steps to have it removed. Once this was done JLM approached N again  
but it still didnt want to lend to Mr J. JLM recommended they try a second bank (T) which did 
issue an AIP. Mr J asked JLM to progress the application with T, which included getting the 
property valued.
Whilst JLM was finding a mortgage for Mr J, he had a second broker look for a better deal. 
The second broker sent him a broker AIP which indicated how much the intermediary 
thought Mr J could borrow  but hadnt been issued by a lender.
JLM told Mr J this sort of AIP wasnt enough for D to move forward with the sale as it 
required an AIP from a lender.
JLM did acknowledge the second intermediary had eventually found a slightly cheaper 
mortgage through N, although it hadnt progressed to a formal mortgage offer. JLM said it 
didnt think it was worth stalling the purchase of the property for a saving of about £4 a 
month  especially as the second broker might not be successful. JLM said it might mean Mr 
J missed the opportunity of buying the house, as the sale had to be completed within a 
certain timescale. 
In the meantime T had the property valued and sent Mr J a full mortgage offer which he 
accepted. When another lender wanted a valuation, D wanted to know why, as it thought the 
mortgage was already arranged. D involved JLM in this, which is part of Mr Js complaint as 
he doesnt think they should have been contacted. JLM doesnt think it did anything wrong 
when it responded to D about this query.
Mr J says JLM put obstacles in his way with regards to getting information and valuations 
and made it difficult for him to get the best deal available. He says JLM never made it clear 
who the individual members of staff were working for or what services it would provide. And 
he thinks JLM breached the data protection regulations. He says this meant he didnt in the 
end buy the house he wanted, and this has caused him and his family much stress and 
inconvenience. 
Mr J complained, but JLM didnt think it had done anything wrong. When Mr J asked us to 
review his complaint, our investigator agreed with JLM, and didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld.
Mr J doesnt agree. He wants eight thousand pounds compensation and the return of a £100 
fee he paid the second broker.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must first explain that I cant comment on anything D did, nor on the actions of the second 
intermediary Mr J approached. D isnt a business regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority  so this service cant review complaints about it. And the complaint is about JLM, 
so the second intermediary isnt included in this decision.
Im not going to comment on every point Mr J has made, although I have read everything he 
sent us. Instead Ill concentrate on the key issues. These are:
Did JLM give Mr J the information it was required to, to comply with the relevant regulations, 
and protect his personal information?
JLM says it told Mr J it was completing an assessment for D  but that it could help him find 
a mortgage if he so wished. JLM says it made it clear in a phone call that Mr J could use 
another broker if he wanted to and sent the relevant paperwork to him to explain what 
services JLM offered, how the relationship would work, the need for sharing information 
when applying for a mortgage on Mr Js behalf and any costs Mr J was expected to pay. The 
paperwork has what looks like his signature on it  and Mr J later signed a fee agreement 
that confirmed hed had this information. Im satisfied JLM gave Mr J the relevant 
information. 
Mr J also said he thought JLM breached the data protection regulations. Those regulations 
are meant to ensure his personal information is safely held by JLM. I havent seen anything 
that suggests this didnt happen  for example I cant see that any information was shared 
when it shouldnt have been.
Did JLM hinder Mr Js efforts to get the best deal he could?
I can see that JLM made two applications on Mr Js behalf  and obtained an offer for him 
that was only marginally dearer (£4 a month) than the one he might have got through a 
second broker. I think JLMs advice to not risk losing the property for the sake of a very 
modest saving was reasonable. 
I can also see that JLM responded to D about the second valuation when it asked why it was 
being commissioned. I cant say that was wrong given JLM was Mr Js appointed 
representative, and D had been told that. Mr J says he told JLM he didnt know why the 
second valuation had been requested, even though he did. Thats Mr Js choice, but it may 
well have added to any confusion. Ive seen later correspondence between JLM and Mr J 
that says JLM has no issues with him approaching a second broker although it will still 
assess that offer on Ds behalf. That seems reasonable to me.
I dont think JLM hindered Mr Js efforts.
Mr J says JLM unfairly withheld information about him which hindered his search for a 
mortgage through a second intermediary.Mr J says JLM should have shared an affordability assessment it had completed with him, so 
he could give it to a second broker. Its not entirely clear whether this was an assessment 
used in a mortgage application or one it had carried out for D. Mr J says when he went 
through a similar mortgage application process some months earlier he was given the 
assessment to share. But what he actually told us was that this affordability assessment was 
given to him so he could show it to the seller of the property  not to another broker. If its 
JLMs policy to not share this information then I think thats a commercial decision its 
entitled to make. Its not appropriate for me to interfere with that decision. And if JLM carried 
out the assessment for D, then it would be Ds decision, not JLMs, whether to share that 
information  and as I said before I cant comment on what D did. 
Was it made clear to Mr J that S  a member of staff at JLM  was also doing some work on 
Ds behalf?
I dont know whether this was made clear or not. JLM says it explained this in a phone call to 
Mr J although I havent been able to listen to this. But Mr J did sign the paperwork that 
confirmed his information could be shared in order to progress his application. So, although 
this point may not have been handled well  and I dont know either way  I dont think it 
impacted on Mr J. Thats because an intermediary of some sort  either JLM or another  
would have been assessing Mr Js application on Ds behalf. And as Ds preferred provider 
of such a service, I dont think it unreasonable for the member of staff to say that relationship 
was a good thing for Mr J. 
Other points
Mr J says he pulled out of buying the house on the basis that he didnt trust either D or JLM. 
In particular he didnt like the comments JLM had made about using intermediaries that 
didnt specialise in finding mortgages for shared ownership properties. Ive seen the 
comment made by JLM  but it simply points out that there might be problems if the 
intermediary isnt aware of how these purchases happen and the rules surrounding them. I 
cant say its wrong for JLM to warn Mr J about potential pitfalls. 
I do understand that Mr J is upset about losing this property. But it does seem this was his 
decision, and I cant say JLM is responsible for this. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman