DRN-3285131
The complaint
Mr E complains that the car he acquired under a finance agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) was misrepresented to him. Mr E also complains 
about the quality of the car.
What happened
Mr E complains that the car MBFS supplied does not have certain features that are present 
in the model of his car that is sold in the United States of America. Mr E complained to 
MBFS.
MBFS reviewed Mr Es complaint but did not uphold it. Rather it suggested that no 
misrepresentation had taken place. MBFS let Mr E know he could come to our service if he 
did not accept its response.
Dissatisfied Mr E came to our service.
Once his complaint was with us Mr E indicated he is also dissatisfied with the quality of the 
car. In particular he suggests that the car has not reached the appropriate quality threshold 
as the manufacturer has issued safety recalls in relation to several features of the car. He 
also told us there had been a further misrepresentation as the cars engine had been 
manufactured by a third party. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Es complaint. He did not recommend upholding Mr Es 
complaint.
It appears that MBFS accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr E did not.
Mr E asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr E acquired his car by way of a finance agreement, as I have already mentioned. It 
appears that he entered into the agreement after first viewing the car at the car showroom of 
the car dealership a main dealer who I will call M. It also appears that in this instance as 
well as being the car dealership, M acted as a credit broker. Due to the nature of that 
agreement, and the role of M as a credit broker, if M made misrepresentations before Mr E 
went ahead with the deal then the relevant law says MBFS could be held responsible. And I 
would therefore say that it was fair and reasonable, taking the relevant law into account, that 
MBFS be asked to put things right.
Here a misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that induced Mr E to enter into the 
contract to his detriment. Mr E does not say that M told him the car had the features that he 
complains about. Rather he seems to suggest that M remained silent. Silence can be 
misrepresentation. However, in this instance whilst I think it likely M did remain silent on this 
point, I dont agree this is misrepresentation. It seems from what Mr E has told us he 
assumed the car would have the features of the model sold in the USA. He did not tell M he 
had made this assumption. There was nothing in the showroom as far as I am aware that 
suggested that M was displaying the model of the car that was sold in the USA. So, in these 
circumstances, I dont see how M could fairly and reasonably to be held as making any 
representations to Mr E about this point.  It follows that as I dont agree there was a 
misrepresentation made by M I cant fairly and reasonably say MBFS has to do anything 
further here. I dont uphold this complaint point for this reason.
Even if I am wrong about whether representations were made which I dont think I am, then I 
dont find they were material representations. I say this because it appears it took Mr E six 
months to complain. I think he would have complained much sooner if these features were 
so key to his decision to enter into the contract. Mr E explains this by telling us he did not 
drive the car much in the first six months - being overseas. But even if he drove the car very 
little if the missing features were so important to him Id have expected him to have noticed 
and complained sooner.  He also explains his wife drove the car mostly in that period and 
she did not notice the lack of features. But he also says one of the features in particular 
would have been very useful when doing the school run which is one of the reasons he tells 
us he acquired the car. However, it seems his wife was doing the school run during those 
first six months, so it is unclear why she did not notice. It follows for this reason too I do not 
uphold this complaint point.
Once Mr Es complaint was with us he raised further points about the quality of the car and 
about the engine in the car which he suggests was misrepresented to him. These appear to 
be new matters and they have not been considered by MBFS in its final response to Mr E. It 
follows that I am unable to look at these matters in this final decision. Im not saying Mr E 
cant raise a complaint with MBFS about these new points, merely that I cant deal with them 
as part of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman