DRN-3277538
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs K complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined to cover their 
claim for damage to their car port under their home insurance policy.
Mr S and Mrs K arranged their home insurance through their bank. But Aviva is the 
underwriter of the policy. As theyre responsible for accepting or declining claims on the 
policy Ill only refer to them in this complaint. 
What happened
Mr S and Mrs K have home insurance with Aviva. On 23 February 2021 their car port 
collapsed. They quickly reported damage to Aviva the same day. Mr S didnt know what had 
caused the car port to collapse, but thought it couldve been caused by strong winds. So 
Aviva advised him to get a builder to report on what had caused the collapse. 
Aviva initially declined the claim due to no storm conditions being recorded in the area. Mr S 
and Mrs K were unhappy with this decision and complained. Aviva then appointed assessors 
to visit the property to survey the damage. 
The assessors produced a report which recommended the claim be declined on the basis of 
poor workmanship related to the structure of the car port.
Aviva issued their final response to the complaint on 22 March 2021. They said theyd 
received the inspection report from their assessors. They said that the cause of the damage 
appeared to be that the structure hadnt been able to cope with the weight of the tiled roof. 
Aviva said that the recent weather conditions hadnt caused the collapse. But had only 
highlighted the poor design of the structure. They felt their decision to decline the claim was 
correct and they were maintaining that decision. They said that the assessors had advised 
Mr S and Mrs K that they needed to provide structural engineer drawings to evidence that 
the car port was built correctly, and that the brick structure was sufficient to carry the load of 
the pitched tiled roof.
Mr S and Mrs K told Aviva that the structure was temporary. And that they hadnt needed 
drawings or planning permission. Therefore they didnt have the requested drawings.
Mr S and Mrs K raised a number of complaint points:
Aviva had failed to raise a claim immediately and had failed to send a surveyor to 
assess the damage
Aviva had initially rejected the claim due to no storm conditions. But Mr S and Mrs K 
felt that the weather conditions had caused the damage
After theyd complained, Aviva had sent an assessor to survey the damage. But the 
surveyor only stayed for a few minutes and didnt carry any equipment or tools to 
assess the damage
Mr S and Mrs K said they hadnt realized they had enhanced Buildings accidental 
damage cover on their policy until the assessors visit. They said no one at Aviva had 
mentioned this to them. And felt that they were trying to hide this and not consider 
the whole of their cover
They felt the assessors report was poor. They said all the debris had been removed 
by the time of the inspection. They felt that the car port had been built sturdily
Mr S and Mrs K found a drawing of the plans for the car port and submitted it to Aviva. Aviva 
asked Mr S and Mrs K to provide further information about who had drawn up the plans. Mr 
S and Mrs K said that the plans had been drawn by a structural engineer. But they didnt 
have their details.
Aviva didnt consider that the plans Mr S and Mrs K had shared matched the structure that 
had been built. 
Mr S and Mrs K brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think it should 
be upheld. She felt that Avivas decision to decline the claim was fair.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then 
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the 
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, storm etc.  is 
covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by 
one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely one of 
the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion it is its 
responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
Mr S and Mrs K feel that the damage to their car port should be covered under their home 
insurance policy. Aviva believe that no insured event has been shown and therefore the 
damage cant be covered under the policy.
Should the damage have been covered without evidence of cause?
Mr S and Mrs K dont agree that Aviva shouldve required them to provide a report showing 
what had caused the damage. They felt that Aviva shouldve identified the cause. 
As I mentioned earlier, its the policyholders responsibility to show the damage theyre 
claiming for is caused by one of the policy perils. From what Ive seen and heard, when Mr S 
reported the damage he didnt know what had caused the collapse. When Aviva asked him 
what had caused the collapse he said he didnt know, but: probably winds. 
Aviva then asked Mr S what the car port was made out of and how old it was. Avivas notes 
from that call said that the agent didnt immediately decline the claim as she was unsure: on 
how weather would affect a car port which is why PH was advised to get a report as he 
stated it was only around 5-6 years old which I wouldnt expect a car port of that age to 
collapse.I consider that it was reasonable to request that a report be provided under the 
circumstances. Mr S hadnt been able to state definitively what had caused the collapse. And 
it is the policyholders responsibility to show that the damage being claimed for was caused 
by one of the policy perils. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to say that 
Aviva shouldve accepted the claim without evidence of cause.
So Ill now consider Mr Ss suggestion that the damage was caused by strong winds.
Was there evidence that a storm caused the damage?
When he first notified Aviva of the damage, Mr S suggested that winds probably caused the 
collapse of the car port. So I would expect Aviva to initially consider the claim under the 
storm part of the policy. Aviva did initially decline the claim as they found no evidence of 
storm conditions being recorded in the area at the time of the damage. So Ive considered 
whether this was fair and reasonable under the circumstances here. 
As our investigator mentioned, when our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are 
three questions to consider:
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three of these questions is yes, then a claim should likely succeed.
Mr S and Mrs Ks policy doesnt define storm. So Ive considered what this service 
considers to be storm conditions. And Ive checked independent weather records for the 
area surrounding the property around the date in question. Although Ive found winds of up 
to 33 mph, this doesnt meet what this service would consider to be a storm. As the answer 
to the first question is no, theres no reason to consider the other two questions. 
So Im satisfied that Aviva acted fairly when they initially declined the claim due to no storm 
conditions being recorded in the area.
Ill now look at the information Aviva relied on for their decision to decline the claim due to 
poor workmanship.
Did Aviva act fairly when they declined the claim for poor workmanship?
Under the terms of the policy (page 18), Aviva wont cover loss or damage if the damage 
was caused:
by faulty or unsuitable materials, design or poor workmanship
Mr S and Mrs K also had Accidental Damage Cover. The terms and conditions also exclude 
cover under that section (page 22) if the damage was caused:
by faulty or unsuitable materials or design, or poor workmanship
Aviva sent an assessor to report on the damage. They reported that the car port roof had 
collapsed from the ridge line inwards. And felt that the cause of this damage appeared to be 
that the structure has not been able to cope with the weight of the tiled roof. The assessor 
wasnt satisfied that the car port had been built to regulations based on what hed seen. Hed 
also noted cracks to the brickwork and mortar of the piers which he considered confirmed that they had been under stress from the weight of the pitched roof. 
Aviva asked Mr S and Mrs K to provide structural engineer drawings to evidence that the car 
port had been built correctly. Mr S and Mrs K did provide drawings. But Aviva didnt consider 
that the plans Mr S and Mrs K had shared matched the structure that had been built. So 
Aviva then considered that the cause of damage was poor workmanship, in line with the 
findings of the report. 
As our investigator noted, this service has to rely on independent expert reports and 
opinions when investigating complaints. We dont send out experts ourselves. But we do 
review evidence supplied by both parties to those complaints.
In this case, there is only one assessment to consider. And based on that report, Im 
satisfied that Aviva acted fairly and reasonably when they relied on the expert opinion to 
decline the claim. I say this in particular as Aviva have been given no other viable 
explanation for how the damage was caused. 
As the claim was declined under poor workmanship, it also couldnt be considered under 
the accidental damage section of the policy. So, based on all the available evidence, the 
damage wasnt insured under any perils. 
I acknowledge that Mr S and Mrs Ks position is that their policy should cover them against 
any eventualities. And that they feel the assessor didnt spend very long surveying the 
damage before hed decided that the damage was due to poor workmanship.  But Ive found 
no evidence that the report they produced is incorrect. 
Taking everything into account Im not persuaded Aviva did anything wrong. So I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman