DRN-3175422
The complaint
Miss K complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on 
her home emergency policy. 
What happened
In February 2021, Miss K contacted British Gas about one of her properties, which is 
tenanted. The tenants had reported that the central heating wasnt working.
British Gas arranged to attend. However the first couple of appointments were rescheduled 
so British Gas attended around a month after the claim was reported. It said the heating was 
working but there were cold spots on the radiators, so a powerflush was recommended, it 
also recommended the boiler be replaced.
It seems British Gas didnt take any further action, so shortly after Miss K complained. And it 
wasnt until the start of July 2021 that the powerflush took place.
Miss K said her tenants had stopped paying rent throughout the period theyd been without 
heating, so she wanted British Gas to reimburse that. She also wanted a refund of the 
premiums shed paid whilst the claim had been ongoing, and a new boiler. As she felt British 
Gas delays in arranging a powerflush had caused more issues with her boiler.
British Gas accepted the service had fallen below the standard it would expect, so it offered 
£250 as an apology for this. But it didnt agree to cover the rental payments. It said it wasnt 
made aware of the urgency of the matter and Miss K hadnt chased British Gas up for long 
periods of time. Unhappy with its response, Miss K brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator agreed British Gas service had been poor. But he thought overall, its offer 
of compensation was enough to put things right. Miss K didnt accept that and said shed 
made numerous calls to British Gas throughout the period.
Our investigator reviewed the calls in question. He found that calls had been made, but they 
related to other matters, or properties that Miss K had insured with British Gas. So he didnt 
think the compensation should be increased.
Miss K didnt accept that, she said she shouldnt be expected to chase British Gas, as she 
pays them for a service. She didnt feel £250 reflected the length of time this had gone on 
for.
Miss K didnt accept that, she said she shouldnt be expected to chase British Gas, as she 
pays them for a service. She didnt feel £250 reflected the length of time this had gone on 
for.
As Miss K didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that British Gas service was poor, so all I need to decide is whether its 
offer of compensation is enough to put matters right in the circumstances. And having 
reviewed everything, Im satisfied it is, Ill explain why below.
This claim was first raised at the end of February, it seems British Gas promptly arranged a 
first appointment, but this was then twice rearranged, meaning more than a month passed 
before the property was attended. So I think British Gas caused a delay of around three 
weeks here, which is the time from the first appointment was scheduled, to when the 
appointment actually happened.
British Gas attended on 30 March 2021, and by 6 April, when Miss K complained, nothing 
further had happened. A powerflush had been recommended but not booked. It wasnt until 
mid-June that British Gas contacted Miss K to arrange a powerflush. So I accept British Gas 
caused a further delay of two and a half months. 
When British Gas contacted Miss K in mid-June, its notes say Miss K didnt want to arrange 
a powerflush until shed spoken to someone about her complaint. But it was later booked for 
the start of July. So I dont think its fair to hold British Gas responsible for any delay here. 
But even so, it has caused more than three months of delays in getting the powerflush done. 
And I agree this is poor service.
Miss K has said she was contacted British Gas about the issue by phone many times, but I 
havent seen any evidence that she spoke to them about the issue from April, when she 
complained, until mid-June when British Gas contacted her. Miss K said it shouldnt be down 
to her to chase British Gas, and I agree with her, but it also isnt correct to say shed been 
caused the inconvenience of chasing British Gas, as it doesnt seem that she did. 
Miss K disputes that the heating was working at all, but on balance, from the evidence Ive 
seen, Im more persuaded that the tenants had some heating. So even though British Gas 
caused a delay, I dont think it would be fair to ask it to reimburse any rental payments the 
tenants withheld from Miss K. Its also not reasonable to ask British Gas to refund premiums 
Miss K paid throughout the period. Miss K still wanted to be insured by British Gas and 
would have been able to make other claims under the policy at this time. Miss K has also 
said she feels British Gas delays have caused more issues with the boiler, so it should pay 
for a replacement. But I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that British Gas delay 
has caused the damage Miss K has described.
Having considered everything, I think British Gas offer of £250 is fair and reasonable for the 
delay it caused. In deciding this Ive considered that Miss K wasnt living in the property, so 
wasnt directly impacted by the heating issue. And she wasnt caused added inconvenience 
by chasing British Gas, as it doesnt seem that shed done this.My final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Miss K £250 for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman