DRN-3466192
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy about the settlement and handling of an equipment claim by Aviva 
Insurance Limited under his commercial business equipment policy.
Mr F is acting on behalf of his company F, I will refer to Mr F throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr F contacted Aviva and made a claim for business equipment that he hired out but was 
never returned. Mr F said the thieves completed the hire documentation and paid a deposit.
There was some debate between Mr F and Aviva about whether policy cover applied and 
whether the items had been hired out or stolen from the start. Aviva said it had made a 
mistake when it said cover wouldnt apply and eventually it agreed to pay £7,000 for the 
stolen equipment under the hire section of the commercial policy. It also agreed to pay £100 
compensation as an apology for declining to pay the claim prior to this. Mr F didnt accept 
this as his loss was for a much larger amount. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said it wasnt fair that Aviva didnt consider the 
claim as a theft. She didnt think Mr F not reporting the matter to police on the same day was 
material to the claim. She said the thieves never had any intention of returning the items. 
Our investigator said Aviva should pay the claim in full with 8% interest added to the total. 
She felt the £100 compensation was fair.
Aviva didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Aviva said Mr F didnt carry out the full checks he should have done before hiring out and 
letting the equipment be taken from his premises. Aviva changed its mind about whether or 
not the claim was valid and if it should pay it. It accepted it was a valid under the hired 
section but at another point said it shouldnt be paying out at all as the policy didnt offer 
cover if the equipment was hired out fraudulently. Mr F said that Aviva had also agreed to 
pay the claim in full at one stage.
Mr F now said the hirers never had any intention of returning the equipment so this is a theft 
and should be treated as such by Aviva. Mr F said this means Aviva need to pay out for the 
equipment in full. He said this is how the police are treating the matter and provided 
evidence hes found of the thieves taking similar equipment from similar businesses and not 
returning the items.
I can understand how Mr F would be upset by Avivas stance in this situation as the items 
stolen are expensive and hes pointed out that this is his livelihood.
Mr F explained how the hire/theft took place and how and why he eventually let the 
equipment be taken. Its clear he was a little bit worried about the situation from the start.
Aviva said There is no theft from the premises, you allowed the equipment to leave the 
premises and you have advised they have provided false representation. If the items were 
stolen, then the police would have been contacted right away, also you have allowed the 
equipment to leave your premises, therefore not stolen. I appreciate the equipment was not 
returned but the action carried out was under the intention to hire this out.
Aviva continued The police were only contacted when the equipment failed to be returned. 
You mentioned this was a fraudulent booking, this means your sole purpose was hiring out 
the equipment. Obviously, you had concerns once the equipment was hired, however, when 
you handed over the goods, you knew nothing about the fraud/false information at that time.
Its accepted that there were some irregularities with the paperwork and the usual processes 
Mr F would run through with a hirer. But Mr F said it was a last minute thing and did his best 
to accommodate someone who seemed initially to be genuine.
Aviva made the point throughout that despite Mr F referring to how worried and anxious he 
was to get the hirers to leave his premises he still went ahead with the hire anyway. Aviva 
said if he had thought the items had been stolen from that point, hed have contacted the 
police right away. I think thats fair comment. Especially when Mr F said eventually I couldnt 
find enough reason to prevent them taking the gear and he followed up by confirming he 
rang them around 15 minutes after they had left with the equipment to check a couple of 
details but they got annoyed with him and hung up the telephone.
I know there has been much debate about which sections of the policy apply and both 
parties have referred to different policy sections at different times throughout the claim. But I 
think based on the comments above the offer from Aviva to pay the limit under the hire 
section of the policy for £7,000 is fair and reasonable. I think its clear from the details 
provided that a hire arrangement was set up for the equipment to leave the premises.
The limit for Hired out equipment is noted on the policy at £7,000. I can see there was also 
a debate about the excess charge that applies. And I can understand Mr Fs frustration with 
this point in particular. In an email from his brokers there is reference to the policy excess 
being increased. The email says it is increased to £1,000. But on the policy schedule details 
I saw an excess figure of £500 for hired equipment. Aviva said that the policy excess 
increases to £1,000 for theft. But if the settlement is based on the equipment being hired out 
rather than stolen then I think the fair and reasonable answer here is that the lower excess of 
£500 for hired equipment should apply.
Theres no doubt Aviva could have handled the claim better and been clearer about the 
policy cover from the start of this claim. So, I think Mr F makes a fair point about the claim 
handling and the service he received. Aviva referred to sections of the policy it later 
accepted didnt apply. Aviva had issues with whether or not the claim should be paid due to 
a fraud and dishonesty exclusion, the all risks section and the theft section of the policy. It 
took some time before any kind of reasonable settlement was put forward by Aviva. As the 
policy is in the name of the business rather than an individual consumer, I cant ask Aviva to 
pay any more than the £100 it has already offered.
Aviva should pay 8% simple interest on the settlement amount from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement.
As this was Mr Fs livelihood, hes said about how much of an impact this had on his 
business. If Mr F has details of business he lost in the aftermath of the claim and the delays 
then I think that ought to be considered by Aviva under any relevant sections of the policy. 
But thats for Mr F to provide to Aviva for it to consider and a separate issue from this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva responded and accepted the main point of the decision. It also accepted that the claim 
hadnt been handled as well as it should have been. But it said it had dealt with that through 
the compensation offer. It said there was no need for the 8% interest award as it was Mr F 
who had challenged its offer of the £7,000 settlement. Aviva said the delay was down to 
Mr F.
Mr Fs response was comprehensive, and Ive read and reconsidered all of it. But for the 
purposes of the decision Im only going to bullet point the main factors:
The thieves objective was to steal his equipment not to hire it.
The policy covers Mr F in full for this under his policy section for electronic equipment.
Police details confirm the criminal gang and that they targeted Mr F to steal his 
equipment, and more contact should have been made with the police by Aviva and this 
service.
This was theft via a well planned and rehearsed deception.
Calling the police any earlier would have made no difference at all and is partly why Mr F 
didnt call them immediately. It shouldnt impact on his claim.
The claim was fraudulent and doesnt fall under the £7,000 limit, it should be paid in full.

What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont accept what Aviva has said in response to the provisional decision. I think it did create 
the problems with this claim from the outset. It did decline the claim in full through different 
policy wordings and sections, flip flopped on settlements and amounts and lacked any clarity 
throughout its investigation. I totally understand why Mr F brought a complaint to this service. 
I dont think Mr F caused the issues here I think that is down to Aviva and its handling and 
settlement of the claim. In these circumstances its fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay 
interest on the settlement figure.
I do understand the points Mr F makes and I understand what he says about the impact on 
his business. But my decision is based on the evidence provided and that evidence shows 
Mr F hired out the equipment. As Aviva referred to Mr F allowed the equipment to leave the 
premises, he handed over the items. Mr F chose to do that. So, Ive considered whether 
Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably when it eventually offered to pay the £7,000 under the 
hire section of the policy. In this case the £7,000 is a fair settlement and I think is in line with 
what the policy covers.
I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Pay the limit under the hire section of £7,000 less the £500 excess.
Pay 8%* simple interest on the settlement amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay the limit under the hire section of £7,000 less the £500 excess.
Pay 8%* simple interest on the settlement amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman