DRN-1844454
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Green Flag, has damaged his 
vehicle following a claim under his breakdown policy.
What happened
In January 2020, following a car breakdown related to a broken offside front coil spring, Mr M 
contacted UKI to recover his vehicle. UKIs recovery agent attended and took the car to a 
garage. Mr M says the agent left the vehicle outside the garage with a flat tyre and had 
caused damage to the shock absorber while the car was in his care. He said UKI shouldnt 
have moved the car at all if there was a risk of further damage. And he says hes been 
charged for storage by the garage the car was brought to and he says UKI has unfairly 
refused to pay these costs.
UKI said the agent had considered loading the vehicle using different equipment but had 
said there had been a risk of puncturing a tyre regardless given the nature of damage. UKI 
provided a job sheet that showed damage was reported about the tyre upon entry of the 
garage, and it agreed to cover the cost of the tyre on the basis it couldve used other 
equipment and awarded £25 in compensation.
UKI also considered the damage to the cars shock absorbers. It said following arrival at the 
garage, its agent and garage staff pushed the car inside which was when the tyre popped. 
UKIs in-house engineers reviewed what happened and said the shock absorbers wouldnt 
have been damaged by these actions. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She said UKIs obligations were to get 
Mr Ms vehicle to a garage, then its liability ended. In light of this she said UKIs decision to 
pay for the cost of the tyre was beyond what she wouldve recommended, and there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to show UKI had caused any damage to the shock absorbers. She also 
said UKI wouldnt be liable for any storage costs and further repairs (beyond the tyre) as she 
wasnt satisfied these were linked to UKIs recovery agent.
Mr M disagreed, saying UKI had admitted it had made a mistake which led to the damage.
On Mr Ms request, our investigator sought an opinion from the garage itself. They said they 
believed UKIs agent caused the damage to the shock absorbers.
The garage said it told UKIs agent to reverse his truck to the entrance, then unload the car 
in a straight line. But instead he unloaded it at a 90-degree angle and turned the steering 
when he shouldnt have. And these actions caused damage to both the tyre and shock 
absorbers. The garage agreed the coil spring failed over time due to wear and tear, but said 
the lower cup of the shock absorber wouldnt have been affected, but for the recovery 
agents mistake.
These comments were shared with UKI who disagreed with the garages comments. It said 
instead there had been no issues unloading the vehicle and the spring had dislodged itself 
and punctured the tyre while it was being pushed into the garage. And it said the spring 
snapping couldnt have caused damage in keeping with that to the shock absorbers. 
UKI also said at this point the vehicle had no longer been in its care at this time, and instead 
was the garages responsibility. So it disagreed to cover any costs, saying the garage had 
made the choice to move the car in the manner they did, and while its engineer assisted, this 
was ultimately the garages method of choice to move the car.
Our investigator looked again. She said the evidence would need to persuade her its more 
likely than not that UKI was at fault, and based on the evidence she felt there wasnt enough 
to say this was the case. So she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed and said UKI 
had used the wrong equipment, and we shouldve looked at the original parts age to fully 
consider whether this could be attributed to wear and tear. Because Mr M disagreed with the 
assessment, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons our investigator has given.
Mr M claimed under his breakdown cover policy. Theres no dispute that UKI attended the 
scene and recovered the vehicle to the garage. What it is in question is UKIs method of 
recovery and delivery, and whether it caused unnecessary damage to Mr Ms car while it 
was in its care. 
UKI said its agent unloaded the vehicle safely and the damage to the tyre happened as a 
result of pushing the vehicle into the garage  and at which time it was no longer responsible 
for the vehicle as it had already recovered it to the garage. And instead the responsibility sat 
with the garages actions to move it as it did. But UKI has said the tyre may have been 
damaged during its recovery, so it agreed to cover the related costs and awarded £25 to 
Mr M for the inconvenience. 
The garage however disagrees, and instead claims UKIs agent was at fault through its 
method of unloading the vehicle at an angle. Both versions of events provided differ, 
specifically at the point of where the damage was caused to the shock absorber. So its 
difficult to conclude with certainty the cause of the damage.
In situations like this, I have to consider the evidence and testimony provided by both parties 
in determining what was most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. As 
Mr M has brought this complaint, its up to him to provide evidence to support that his 
version of events is most likely. So Ive asked myself whether it seems most likely that the 
shock absorbers were damaged as a result of UKIs actions upon delivery. 
Mr M has said UKI should cover the cost of the repairs as it accepted itd used the wrong 
equipment previously and took responsibility for the tyre. But this argument about the 
equipment used isnt in keeping with the garages comments about the cause of the damage 
to the shock absorbers or supported by other evidence. So, this doesnt change my mind. 
Mr M has also asked me to consider the age of the parts in question. But both UKI and the 
garage agree the coil spring broke due to wear and tear  so Im not persuaded I need to 
consider this further as the experts involved havent disputed whether this was a contributory 
factor in the cause of the damage to the shock absorbers. 
The garage has said additional damage was caused (to the shock absorbers) as a result of 
the unloading method used by UKIs agent. But having looked at all of the evidence, Im not persuaded theres enough to say this was most likely, or that the garages version of events 
outweighs what UKI has presented. 
So taking everything into account, Im not persuaded its most likely UKI was at fault for the 
damage related to the shock absorbers. And Im satisfied it has acted fairly by taking 
responsibility for the tyre. It follows Im not directing UKI to cover any additional costs or fees 
a result. Nor am I awarding any additional compensation for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman