DRN-3773389
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to provide accurate information 
regarding arrears on their mortgage account; about the impact of the arrears on their credit 
files; and about the service Barclays provided when they contacted them to resolve their 
concerns.
What happened
In 2013 Mr K and Mrs K took out an offset repayment mortgage of around £175,000 over a 
term of 25 years with Barclays.
During the coronavirus pandemic, they agreed two three-month payment deferrals with 
Barclays from March to September 2020. In around November 2020, Mr K unfortunately lost 
his job. Barclays initially agreed a further three-month deferral from January 2021. But they 
realised theyd already agreed six months deferrals in line with Financial Conduct Authority 
guidance relating to the pandemic. And, in February 2021, following discussions with Mr K, 
Barclays agreed to defer payment for January 2021 while they reviewed the account.
In February 2021 Barclays agreed to an interest only payment arrangement during February, 
March and April 2021. Barclays initially brought the arrangement to an end with effect from  
1 April 2021, instead of 1 May 2021. But they rectified that and wrote to Mr K and Mrs K 
letting them know theyd start collecting direct debit payments of around £795.50 from June. 
That meant a manual payment was necessary for May.
Mr K and Mrs K didnt make a payment in May. The June payment was returned. And the 
direct debit was cancelled at that point. After Barclays contacted them in July about the 
arrears that were building up, Mr K spoke to Barclays. They agreed to provide a statement 
of Mr K and Mrs Ks account and paid them £30 to resolve their concerns.
Mr K spoke to Barclays over the following months. He was still concerned they hadnt 
provided clear information about how the arrears were calculated. And he wanted that 
resolved before he and Mrs K made any further payments or agreed terms for repaying the 
arrears. Mr K felt Barclays had provided poor service since hed spoken to several 
representatives and had to explain his situation many times. And he was unhappy Barclays 
had recorded adverse information on his credit file.
No resolution was reached between Barclays and Mr K and Mrs K. They brought their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Barclays responded to Mr K and Mrs Ks 
complaint before we looked into it. They didnt feel theyd made any mistakes. Theyd 
explained theyd given Mr K and Mrs K options about paying the arrears in July 2021 but 
theyd failed to return the direct debit mandate; theyd told them how they could discuss the 
arrears in September 2021; the mortgage had been reported as being in arrears at the end 
of each month from July 2021 onwards; theyd posted £770.73 to the account due to an 
error theyd made with how the account was being managed which led to the offset 
amount being lost. And theyd confirmed the arrears as being £2,602.43.
Since Mr K and Mrs K didnt accept Barclays response, our investigator looked into their 
complaint. He thought Barclays had done enough to address Mr K and Mrs Ks concerns 
about the arrears by sending them a statement in July 2021 with a direct debit mandate for 
them to complete to reinstate payments. He thought Barclays had explained what Mr K and 
Mrs K needed to do to address the arrears and that they could have made arrangements to 
make their CMP by means other than direct debit, knowing a mandate wasnt in place. Our 
investigator noted Barclays had adjusted the account to take account of a mistake theyd 
made in the way theyd been managing it, which meant Mr K and Mrs K had lost out on the 
offsetting benefit for a time. And he thought it was fair that Barclays had recorded the 
missed payments on Mr Ks credit file since Mr K and Mrs K could have paid the CMP but 
failed to.
Mr K and Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators view and thought hed overlooked their 
concerns about the service Barclays had provided. So, their complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Ive come to a different view than our investigator, Im issuing a provisional decision 
to give the parties time to comment before I issue a final decision.
Mr K and Mrs K have an offset repayment mortgage with Barclays which operates on a 
payment reducing basis. Their mortgage is subject to a contractual monthly payment 
(CMP) made up of capital and interest. Broadly, any balances in accounts linked to the 
mortgage are offset against the balance of the mortgage thereby reducing it. And Mr K 
and Mrs K pay interest on the reduced mortgage balance. Since the amounts in the linked 
accounts and the mortgage balance change from time to time, the CMP can change too.
Mr K and Mrs Ks mortgage offer explained in terms that I think were clear, fair and not 
misleading  as Id expect them to be in line with Financial Conduct Authority rules  how 
the mortgage worked. So, I think its reasonable to think Mr K and Mrs K understood. And I 
can see Mr K was expecting their mortgage payments to be reduced through offsetting 
when he spoke to Barclays in November 2021. So, I think he knew how the mortgage 
operated.
Im conscious Mr Ks said he and Mrs K didnt receive some of the letters Barclays sent 
them. The letters Ive seen were correctly addressed. Ive no reason to think Barclays 
didnt send them. So, unless there were issues with the postal service at the time, Id 
expect them to have got to Mr K and Mrs K.
I think Barclays made it clear to Mr K that it would be necessary for him and Mrs K to make 
a manual payment when they were about to resume payments in May 2021. Barclays 
notes suggest they told Mr K that on the phone and the letter Barclays sent them on 11 May 
said clearly that direct debit payments would start again from June.
The June direct debit was returned, unpaid. Its not clear why. Barclays say that two 
direct debits had been missed which meant the direct debit was cancelled. Its unclear 
which two payments theyre referring to. But since Mr K and Mrs K didnt pay in May or 
June, arrears began to build up; and that led to Barclays writing to them about the 
arrears in July.
Barclays explained how the offset account worked on a call in July 2021. They said theyd 
send Mr K and Mrs K a statement for the previous year to date. And theyd put a paper direct debit mandate in the post for Mr K and Mrs K to complete. They didnt return the 
mandate.
The statement I understand Barclays sent then was for the year ended 30 September 2020. 
It set out the CMP as £774.14 and showed the payments due as being significantly lower, 
reflecting the offsetting. But it only provided information about payments that had been 
missed due to pandemic payment deferrals, which Mr K and Mrs K werent required to 
repay. It didnt explain the arrears Mr K and Mrs K wanted to clarify. So, I can understand 
the position was still unclear after the July conversation.
I think some of the later information Barclays provided was confusing and they made 
some mistakes in managing Mr K and Mrs Ks mortgage account. Theyve also given us 
some conflicting information. For example:
Barclays initially told us Mr K and Mrs Ks account was switched to interest only 
payments for February, March and April 2021. Their records suggest thats what 
they discussed with Mr K would happen. Theyve said recently a payment holiday 
was put in place, so nothing was paid for three months. And the annual statement 
for October 2020 to September 2021 suggests thats what happened.
Barclays had to make adjustments to the account in April 2021 to put right errors 
in switching the account back to repayment too soon and incorrectly capitalising 
some arrears.
Barclays wrote to Mr K and Mrs K in April and May letting them know theyd 
begin collecting a CMP of £795.50. But when they wrote to them in July about 
the arrears for May and June, they said an amount of £585.45 should be paid.   
Mr K questioned the different information about the arrears Barclays had 
provided.
Barclays notes suggest they had different information recorded on different 
internal systems about the arrears.
The statement of account Barclays sent Mr K and Mrs K in September 2021 listed 
three missed payments for June to August 2021 of £795.50, a total of £2,386.50, 
whereas the arrears were stated as £2,381.26. Barclays havent been able to 
explain the difference. And the figures dont seem to take into account payments 
missed earlier in the year or any offsetting that may have been appropriate at the 
time, since they were worked out at the full CMP.
The annual statement for October 2020 to September 2021 shows missed 
payments from February 2021 to September 2021 inclusive. The figures for June 
to August are different to those set out in the September statement of account. 
The total arrears figure shown as £3,176.76 isnt equal to the total of the missed 
payments set out in the body of the statement. And the amount due for September 
is shown as £795.50, whereas the other figures seem to have reflected offsetting.
In around December 2021, Barclays said the account was operating on the 
wrong basis  term reducing rather than payment reducing  which I 
understand meant Mr K and Mrs Ks monthly CMP didnt reflect the offsetting 
that ought to have taken place. Barclays seem to have made a payment of 
around £770 to the account in around January 2022 to put that right.Bearing the above in mind, I can understand why Mr K and Mrs K were reluctant to make 
any payments or set up a repayment plan for the arrears until Barclays had clarified the 
figures. I appreciate Barclays point that they explained to Mr K in July 2021 that the 
arrears may be showing differently on different letters due to the account offsetting. And I 
note Barclays had asked Mr K for income and expenditure information several times so a 
repayment plan could be set up.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr K and Mrs K to want a clear figure for what they 
owed before paying anything towards the arrears. But Id expect them to have arranged to 
make a manual payment for the CMP due in May, since Barclays told them that was 
necessary. It seems likely, from what Barclays have said, if theyd done that, the June 
direct debit would have been collected. And if Mr K and Mrs K had completed the direct 
debit mandate in July, further arrears wouldnt have built up and later issues would 
probably have been avoided.
Arguably Mr K and Mrs K had details of the arrears, for February to August 2021 at least, 
when they got the statement for the year ended 30 September 2021 in October that year. 
The statement suggests offsetting had been operating correctly until September 2021 when 
the full CMP appears as unpaid on the statement. I note Mr K provided income and 
expenditure information in November. An issue then arose about putting a repayment plan 
in place because Barclays noticed theyd been managing the account on the wrong basis, 
and an adjustment was required to the account to show the position correctly.
Bearing all of the above in mind I think Barclays are partly at fault here. But I think Mr K and 
Mrs K could have avoided arrears between May and September if theyd arranged to pay 
the CMP in May manually and completed the direct debit mandate in July. Regardless of 
their dispute with Barclays, I dont think it was reasonable for them simply not to pay.
Ive thought about how to put things right in a way thats fair and reasonable to both parties.
Im not aware Barclays have provided Mr K and Mrs K with a statement that clearly sets 
out all the arrears they owe. I think they should do so now. Id encourage the parties to 
then agree how Mr K and Mrs K will pay them off.
Mr K is concerned about information recorded on his credit file. Im not aware of what it 
shows. But Barclays are required to report arrears and payment arrangements, so its 
not unreasonable that they have done so in Mr Ks case.
I think its fair to say Mr K and Mrs K would have been in a position to start clearing the 
arrears from November 2021 if Barclays hadnt then made a mistake in managing the 
account. Based on the income and expenditure information Mr K provided in November, it 
seems he and Mrs K would have been able to pay £200 a month over and above the CMP 
of around £800. In January 2021 around £190 was being offset to bring the CMP down to 
around £610. So, subject to any changes to the accounts they were offsetting, Mr K and
Mrs K would have been able to pay around £390 towards the arrears.
From what Ive seen so far, I think Mr K and Mrs Ks credit files ought fairly to reflect:
The agreement to defer payment in January 2021
The payment holiday between February 2021 and April 2021
Missed payments between May and October 2021
That an arrangement to pay off the arrears could have been put in place 
from November 2021 onwardsSubject to any comments the parties may have, Barclays should adjust Mr K and      
Mrs Ks credit files accordingly. Based on what Ive seen I think these changes would 
fairly reflect what Barclays agreed with Mr K and Mrs K and what they could and should 
have paid.
In addition, I think Barclays should pay Mr K and Mrs K compensation to reflect the 
sometimes poor service they provided. Their initial decision to allow a payment deferral 
under pandemic guidelines was incorrect. They took payment in January 2021 when Mr K 
and Mrs K werent expecting it. They set up a payment holiday for February 2021 to April 
2021, when it seems that Mr K and Mrs K were expecting to pay interest only. Confusing 
information was provided between July and October 2021. And Mr K spent a lot of time 
trying to resolve things on the phone with Barclays. Barclays made a mistake about how to 
manage the account which delayed putting in place a plan to repay the arrears that had 
built up.
I can understand this was frustrating and time consuming for Mr K and Mrs K. But, as Ive 
explained, I think some of the inconvenience could have been avoided if theyd paid the 
CMP from May. On balance, I think it would be fair for Barclays to pay £250 for distress 
and inconvenience by way of compensation.
My provisional decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
1. Provide Mr K and Mrs K with a statement of arrears within 14 days of them 
accepting my final decision, should they choose to do so.
2. Amend Mr K and Mrs Ks credit files to reflect
a. The agreement to defer payment in January 2021;
b. The payment holiday between February 2021 and April 2021;
c. Missed payments between May and October 2021; and
d. That an arrangement to pay off the arrears could have been put in place 
from November 2021 onwards.
3. Pay Mr K and Mrs K £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Developments
Barclays agreed theyd provide Mr K and Mrs K with an arrears statement and amend their 
credit files to reflect all agreed arrangements. They agreed to pay the £250 compensation I 
recommended. 
Mr K and Mrs K were unhappy with the level of compensation I proposed. Mr K referred to 
the time hed spent on the phone with Barclays and in branch trying to resolve the issues. He 
was unhappy his credit rating caused by the situation with Barclays had prevented him from 
getting loans to buy a car, carrying out home improvements and changing his mortgage. 
Hed also felt obliged to pay a subscription to a credit reference agency to check his rating 
each month. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered Mr K and Mrs Ks concerns about the time spent and steps taken trying to 
resolve things with Barclays when coming to my provisional decision. Mr K had previously mentioned the problem hed had in borrowing. I note the impact it had. And I understand he 
wanted to keep up to date with his credit score. But it was his choice to incur a cost in 
checking each month. I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to meet that. 
The compensation I recommended reflected not only Barclays errors, but the contribution I 
felt Mr K and Mrs K made to their situation. Taking everything into consideration, Im not 
persuaded its fair to increase the figure.
So, my decision remains as set out in my provisional decision for the reasons I explained 
there. In case theres any misunderstanding on the part of Barclays, I expect the changes to 
the credit file to reflect not only arrangements that were in place, but also that an 
arrangement could have been put in place in November 2021. And the statement of arrears 
Barclays provide will need to take into account the offsetting arrangements.
Putting things right
I see no reason to change my mind from my provisional decision about how Barclays should 
put things right.
My final decision
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1. Provide Mr K and Mrs K with a statement of arrears within 14 days of them 
accepting my final decision, should they choose to do so.
2. Amend Mr K and Mrs Ks credit files to reflect
a. The agreement to defer payment in January 2021;
b. The payment holiday between February 2021 and April 2021;
c. Missed payments between May and October 2021; and
d. That an arrangement to pay off the arrears could have been put in place 
from November 2021 onwards.
3. Pay Mr K and Mrs K £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman