DRN-2868495
Complaint
Mr and Mrs G has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued applying 
charges to their overdraft when they were in difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should have 
realised that Mr and Mrs Gs overdraft had become unsustainable for them in November 
2017 and so it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr and Mrs Gs 
overdraft from this point. Lloyds didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman for 
review.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr and Mrs Gs 
overdraft in November 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr and Mrs G 
were in no position to sustainably repay what they owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Gs statements leading up to the renewal shows theyd spent prolonged periods 
in their overdraft. Indeed, theyd had returned payments and had also exceeded their limit. In 
these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent Mr and Mrs G might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty  especially as the statements also strongly hinted at a 
change in circumstances - were unlikely to be able to repay what they owed within a 
reasonable period with overdraft interest, fees and associated charges continuously being 
added. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive thought about the payments Lloyds has referred to. Lloyds 
has suggested that the credits Mr and Mrs G which could have been annual/quarterly 
bonuses, regular dividend or investment returns and these would have been taken into 
account as income. 
But its unclear to me as to whether it found about the source of the funds it has referred to, 
or whether it is simply speculating after the event. In any event, this doesnt negate the fact 
that Mr and Mrs Gs statements suggested a change in circumstances in the period leading 
up to the November 2017 renewal. 
I also find Lloyds apparent suggestion that Mr and Mrs G had sole responsibility for 
communicating any financial difficulties they might have been experiencing to be particularly 
disappointing. This completely ignores Lloyds obligation to monitor a customers repayment 
record for financial difficulty. And Im particularly mindful here that there was evidence of 
non-payment of bills (as a result of returned direct debits) and a loss of work around the time 
when Lloyds introduced its new charging structure, when it provided assurances that it would 
mitigate the effects for customers who couldnt afford it.  
So having carefully thought about everything, Im satisfied that think that Lloyds should have 
stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms in November 2017, stopped adding fees 
and charges and instead treated Mr and Mrs G with forbearance. 
All of this means that Lloyds should have realised Mr and Mrs G was experiencing financial 
difficulty, werent using their overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr and Mrs Gs overdraft usage and instead 
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs G ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating their financial difficulty. So I think that Mr and Mrs G lost out 
because of what Lloyds did wrong and that it should put things right.  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs G
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs Gs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after the renewal in November 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr and Mrs G to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on          
Mr and Mrs Gs credit file, it should backdate this to November 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr and Mrs G along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then Lloyds should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Gs 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman