DRN-3982579
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains about the loan given to the late Mr C by National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
The late Mr C borrowed money on a loan of £17,000 from NatWest in February 2004. It was 
to be paid back over 72 months. In 2002, he had given a Lasting Power of Attorney to his 
wife, Mrs C. In June 2011, NatWest obtained an interim charging order on the marital home - 
owned by Mr C and Mrs C. The full charging order was given by the court in September 
2011  when the loan was £19,992.65. Mr C sadly passed away in March 2021. Mrs C 
wants to borrow money on an equity release loan secured on the property, but the loan 
company wont lend to her because of the charging order in existence. The balance of 
NatWests loan was £19.167.36 in August 2022.
Mrs C is represented by her son in this complaint, but I will refer to Mrs C as the 
complainant. She says:
- The loan should not have been given to her husband in 2004 because she had a 
power of attorney over his affairs at the time.
- She (or her son) contacted NatWest in 2017-18 about the loan and were told that it 
might be written off.
- She (or her late husband) hadnt received any letters or communications about the 
loan, or the charging order.
- The charging order wasnt therefore fair and should be removed.
- She is short of money and is suffering from ill health  and needs to borrow money 
against the property to live off. She cant get an equity release loan because of the 
charging order on the property.
NatWest said theyd been contacted by Mrs Cs son in 2020 to discuss the loan. They asked 
for a letter of authority from Mrs C to be provided, and a copy of the Power of Attorney. But 
had no record of any further contact until November 2021  when Mrs Cs son contacted 
them to advise them of his fathers death in March 2021. NatWest said they didnt agree to 
write off the loan.
NatWest apologised that at that stage they didnt advise Mrs Cs son about the charging 
order. The loan hadnt been written off and needed to be repaid to remove the restriction on 
the property. But NatWest did say sorry for not advising Mrs Cs son about the restriction in 
2020 and paid compensation of £350.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said NatWest dealt with it reasonably. 
He said the matter of the loan being given in 2004 had been dealt with by NatWest  whod 
issued a final response in 2005. And because that complaint hadnt been referred within six 
months, we couldnt look at it further.
He said the courts had decided the loan was payable and had granted a charging order to 
NatWest. He said our service cant overturn a decision of the court to grant the charging 
order - that wasnt our role. He said Mrs C should take legal advice if she wished to 
challenge the courts decision. 
Because NatWest hadnt advised Mrs C or her son about the charging order in 2017/18 
when they were contacted about the loan  they paid compensation of £350. But that didnt 
detract from the fact that the loan still existed.
On the Power of Attorney, he said a POA doesnt stop someone doing something, rather 
what it means is  that the person acting as an Attorney can act on that persons behalf. In 
this case, it would only have come into existence if the late Mr C didnt have the mental 
capacity to make his own decisions. And he considered there was no evidence to suggest 
the late Mr C didnt have that capacity in 2004 when the loan was agreed to.
Mrs C didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. So  it has come to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are four aspects to Mrs Cs complaint:
- She says the loan should not have been given to her late husband in 2004.
- She (or her son) was told that the loan would be written off in 2017-18, or at least no 
action would be taken.
- There hadnt been any communication about the loan or its arrears.
- The charging order should therefore be lifted or set aside.
Loan in 2004: NatWest have told us that a complaint was raised in 2005 about the loan. 
Theyve told us a final response was issued in 2005. They dont have a copy of it. Given the 
passage of time, I dont think it is reasonable to expect NatWest to still have details of the 
complaint and the final response. But their records say one was issued. And  I think it is 
reasonable to conclude that was the case. So  we cant look at that aspect of the complaint, 
as it was closed then.
Contact in 2017-18: Mrs Cs son contacted NatWest about the loan in 2017-18. He told us 
that he was told no action would be taken on the loan and it might be written off. Neither he 
nor Mrs C heard anything further. So they assumed all was OK. He was therefore surprised 
when the existence of the charging order came to light recently - when Mrs C applied for an 
equity release loan, secured on the marital home. We asked NatWest more about this and I 
reviewed the notes on the account. There isnt anything recorded to say that NatWest 
wouldnt take any action on the loan or write it off. 
NatWest apologised they hadnt advised them then about the charging order - when they 
should have. They paid compensation of £350. Ive thought about this further  and the fact 
that compensation was paid was because of an error in communication, not because there was an error in NatWest obtaining the charging order. So - I think that was a reasonable 
thing for NatWest to do.
Communication about the loan: we asked NatWest more about this and they searched their 
records  but couldnt provide anything, given the passage if time. In all honesty, Im not 
surprised by this - as it was so long ago, and NatWest arent required to keep records going 
back so long.
Charging Order: Ive seen the courts papers on the charging order. An interim order was 
granted in June 2011, and this was confirmed by the court in September 2011. It says that 
the loan of £19,922.65 was then owed. So it was the courts decision that the money was 
owed, and to give NatWest the charging order. Here, our investigator is correct. Our service 
is an informal dispute resolution service. While we can ask firms to do certain things to 
resolve complaints, we cannot override a courts decision. If Mrs C wanted to challenge the 
courts decision and ask for the charging order to be set aside, she should take legal advice 
about that course of action (but see below).
So, in summary, NatWest havent done anything wrong here and therefore I am not 
upholding this complaint. Therefore, I cannot make NatWest do anything  for instance, pay 
additional compensation or release the charging order.
I then considered Mrs Cs situation  she is suffering from ill health and needs to borrow 
money against the property to live off. In those circumstances, I asked NatWest if they would 
consider writing off the loan and removing their charge on the property. And they agreed to 
do that as a gesture of goodwill and have started the process to do that. They will be in 
touch with the estate shortly. I hope that this is seen by the estate as a good outcome.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and the 
estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman