DRN-3117429
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Yorkshire Building Society unfairly applied an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they moved home. They also complain that it hasnt been flexible about 
extending the time for them to port their mortgage. They ask that it extends the porting 
window or refunds 50% of the ERC and the product fee they paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with YBS. Their fixed interest product was due to expire in 
April 2020. Mr P says due to the specialised industry he works in he was at risk of losing his 
job and having to sell their house. While they didnt want to go onto YBSs standard variable 
rate because of the higher payments, they were also concerned about taking out a product 
with an ERC. 
Mr and Mrs P took out a fixed interest rate product in February 2020 which allowed them to 
make overpayments of up to 50% of the balance without paying an ERC. Mr P says he 
thought this meant theyd only pay part of the ERC if they sold the house. Although Mr and 
Mrs P applied for the product online without advice, Mr P says he called YBS to check this.
Mr P was told in March 2020 hed be made redundant in May 2020. Mr and Mrs P took a 
three months payment deferral. They didnt want to extend this as they were concerned it 
would affect them taking out credit in future. They decided to sell their house and move in 
with family. This meant moving to another part of the country which caused disruption to 
their family life and their childrens schooling and friendships. When they sold the house, 
they were upset that YBS applied the full ERC of about £7,500. 
Mr and Mrs P say that YBS should extend the six months window for them to port their 
product. They say it should take into account the difficulties caused by the Covid-19 
pandemic, delays with applications due to increased demand during the Governments 
stamp duty holiday and allow Mr P reasonable time to find suitable employment.  
Our investigator said YBS had given clear information to Mr and Mrs P about porting and the 
ERC. YBS didnt have any record of Mr P calling to ask about the new product. She said 
YBS wasnt aware of Mr and Mrs Ps family circumstances or that they had financial 
difficulties. Our investigator said YBS hadnt treated them unfairly.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. Mr P said there were a number of reasons why it was unfair for 
YBS to apply the ERC. They were misled that theyd only pay 50% of the ERC. They sold 
their house because they were in financial difficulty. Its unreasonable to expect them to port 
within six months given the situation at the time with the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr P said the 
investigator hadnt commented on their personal circumstances and the effect moving had 
on their children. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps product was due to expire in April 2020. They agreed a new product in 
February 2020. This product included an ERC payable if the mortgage was repaid before 
June 2022. Mr and Mrs P agreed to this when they took out the product. Mr and Mrs P 
repaid their mortgage in December 2020 and YBS applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do 
under the mortgage terms and conditions. 
Did YBS give Mr and Mrs P clear information about the ERC?
Mr and Mrs P chose and applied for a new interest rate product themselves  they didnt 
receive advice from YBS. The product transfer offer sent to Mr and Mrs P in February 2020 
said an ERC would apply if they repaid all or part of the loan before June 2022. It set out the 
percentage amounts, the relevant dates and a cash example of the amount of the ERC. It 
set out the cash amount of the ERC payable if the loan was repaid before June 2021 (as 
was the case here). I think this was clear. 
The product allowed overpayments of up to 50% of the balance each year without incurring 
an ERC. An overpayment in excess of this would incur an ERC on the excess.
Mr P says the overpayment allowance is unclear and caused confusion. He says he called 
YBS before taking out the product to check his understanding  that it would only apply the 
ERC to 50% of the balance if they repaid the mortgage  was correct. YBS says it searched 
its calls records and cant find any record of this call. I appreciate Mr Ps frustration about 
this. But I think the product transfer offer set out the amount of the ERC Mr and Mrs P would 
have to pay clearly. Without evidence that YBS provided incorrect information which 
contradicted this, I cant fairly find that Mr and Mrs P were misled about the ERC. 
Should YBS waive all or part of the ERC due to Mr and Mrs Ps financial difficulties?
Mr and Mrs P took a payment deferral for May to July 2020. In early August 2020 YBS wrote 
to them to say their monthly payments would resume. This letter gave options for Mr and 
Mrs P if they thought theyd struggle to make their monthly payments. This included a 
possible further payment holiday, a number to call YBS for help and contact details for a free 
debt advisory service.
Mr P called YBS in August 2020 and asked about porting. Ive listened to the call. Mr P says 
they were looking to sell the property and move in with family until they found a property to 
buy. There was a discussion about porting and about the ERC, including whether the ERC 
would be applied to all or part of the balance. Mr P didnt say they were in financial difficulty. 
I dont think its fair to say that YBS should have offered support such as reducing the 
amount of the ERC.  
Mr and Mrs P say they borrowed money from family to make their monthly payments. Im 
sorry for the difficult position Mr and Mrs P were in. But I havent seen evidence that they 
contacted YBS to say they had financial difficulty and needed support. 
Should YBS extend the porting window?
When Mr P called YBS in August 2020 he was told hed have six months from completion to 
port the product and get a refund of the ERC. The product offer Mr and Mrs P received in 
February 2020 also said they needed to port their product within six months to get a refund 
of the ERC. So I think Mr and Mrs P were given correct information about this before they 
took out the product and before they sold their property.It might be fair to require YBS to extend the porting window in some circumstances  for 
instance if the deadline was missed due to delays by YBS. But theres no suggestion thats 
the case here. Mr and Mrs P were aware of the six months porting window in August 2021. 
Mr and Mrs P sold their house in December 2020, so they had until June 2021 to port their 
product.
Mr P described the difficulties involved in selling their house and moving to a different part of 
the country. He said they decided to move after he was made redundant. I dont think YBS 
was responsible for this decision. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P were affected by wider 
circumstances, including the pandemic, Government restrictions and the effect on the 
property market of the stamp duty holiday. And Mr and Mrs P had a lot to deal with, including 
moving their family to a different part of the country and Mr P looking for suitable work. I do 
sympathise with this. But I dont think YBS made an error here or treated Mr and Mrs P 
unfairly. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstance to require it to refund all or 
part of the ERC or the product fee or extend the porting window.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman