DRN-4089183
The complaint
Mrs C complains because Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) hasnt paid 
a claim under a joint life insurance policy which she held with her late husband, Mr C.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held three life insurance policies, provided by L&G. 
Unfortunately, Mr C very sadly passed away and Mrs C made a claim under the insurance 
policies. L&G paid one of the claims but declined the other two. L&G said this was because it 
thought Mr C hadnt accurately answered questions he was asked about his medical history 
when the two policies in question were taken out. L&G said, if Mr C had answered the 
questions accurately, it wouldnt have offered the insurance policies to him. L&G refunded 
Mrs C all the premiums which her and Mr C had paid for the two policies.
Mrs C complained to L&G. L&G maintained its stance about its decision to decline Mrs Cs 
claims. In its final response, L&G also referred to both a payment of £350 compensation 
which it had made to Mrs C for delays and mistakes it had made, as well as an offer of a 
further £50 compensation for a delayed call-back, which Mrs C had declined. 
As Mrs C remained unhappy, she brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of 
our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think L&Gs position 
was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me to make a decision, as the final stage in 
our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Mr Cs sad passing. This must have been a very difficult time for 
Mrs C, and Id like to offer her my sincere condolences for her loss. 
When considering L&Gs actions in this case, Ive taken into account the relevant law (The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)). Ive also had 
regard to good industry practice about misrepresentation, treating customers fairly and 
managing claims (namely the Codes of Practice set out by the Association of British 
Insurers), as well as what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care required is that of a reasonable
consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For a
misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, the insurer must show it would have offered the
policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation because
of how he answered the questions which he was asked on the insurance policy
application completed in April 2017. Ive set out below the questions which Mr C was asked, 
and Ive underlined the answers he gave.
Health  last 2 years
When answering the following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us about 
a medical condition, please tell us anyway. 
During the last 2 years have your see a health professional about:

a lung or breathing condition, for example asthma?
Yes
Please select from this list. Only select other when you cannot find a match.
Emphysema 

How often do you get symptoms such as a cough, wheezing or shortness of 
breath?
Occasional symptoms which are confined to winter
Other than when you have a flare up of symptoms of this condition, which of the 
following best describes your capacity to climb a flight of stairs?
Minimal shortness of breath on climbing a flight of stairs 
Im satisfied that the questions asked by L&G were clear and specific. Im also satisfied that 
the application form which Mr C completed gave a clear warning about the importance of 
providing truthful and accurate answers to the questions asked, as well as about the 
potential consequences of providing incorrect information. 
Im not a medical expert, so its not for me to reach my own conclusions about the severity of 
Mr Cs medical condition. Instead, Ive considered the available medical evidence to decide 
whether I think L&G acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Mr Cs medical records contain a letter from a Respiratory Consultant who reviewed Mr C as 
an outpatient on 1 May 2015 (so, in the two years before this policy was purchased), which 
described Mr C as having very severe COPD. The letter states that Mr C had FEV1 35% 
predicted value and breathlessness on minimal exertion. On a flat surface he can do up to 2 
miles at a slow pace. Mr Cs medical records also contain details of hospital admissions in 2015. I understand Mrs 
C disputes that one of Mr Cs admissions was COPD-related. But L&Gs decision to decline 
the claim wasnt based solely on this and, even if I disregard the hospital admissions, Im 
satisfied that the content and date of the letter relating to Mr Cs outpatient appointment on 1 
May 2015 demonstrates that Mr C didnt accurately describe the severity of his COPD to 
L&G when taking out this policy. This means I dont think Mr C took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation about his medical history. 
I understand Mrs C says that Mr C travelled on long-haul flights up until 2019, was still 
undertaking work which involved loading and unloading vehicles and was taking just two 
inhalers at the time this policy was purchased. Ive taken these comments into account  as 
well as Mrs Cs comments that Mr C had no hospital admissions in 2016, 2017 or 2018 - but 
I think the medical evidence which Ive quoted is clear, and I find it persuasive. I dont think 
L&G needed to reach out to Mr Cs consultants for further information before deciding 
whether the claim would be paid. Im satisfied that L&G already had sufficient evidence upon 
which it was reasonable for it to rely to make a decision about the claim.  
L&G has provided underwriting evidence which Im satisfied demonstrates that it wouldnt 
have provided cover to Mr C if he had answered the questions asked in the way I think he 
should have. So, I think L&G has demonstrated that Mr C made a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. L&G has treated Mr Cs misrepresentation as a careless 
one (not, as our investigator incorrectly stated, as deliberate or reckless) and I think L&Gs 
position on this point is reasonable. 
This means that, under CIDRA, L&G is entitled to avoid the insurance contract and refuse all 
claims. L&G should return the premium paid to Mrs C, which it has already done. I also note 
that L&G told Mrs C she could continue with her life cover on payment of the appropriate 
premium if she wished to do so.
In summary then, Im satisfied that L&G hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances by declining Mrs Cs claim under the policy take out in 2017. 
I understand Mrs C isnt disputing L&Gs claim decline under the policy taken out in July 
2019. But, for the sake of completeness, Im satisfied based on the available medical 
evidence that Mr C also made a qualifying misrepresentation when he bought this policy. 
L&G has paid compensation of £350 to Mrs C for issues surrounding its handling of the 
claim (including contacting Mrs C on the day of Mr Cs funeral). Im satisfied this payment is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the impact of the mistakes which L&G made. 
L&G also offered Mrs C an additional £50 compensation because of a delay in calling her 
back, which Mrs C declined. If Mrs C does now wish to accept this offer, she should contact 
L&G directly.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C and I know this wont be the outcome she was hoping for, but I 
wont be directing L&G to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 Leah Nagle
Ombudsman