DRN-3219759
The complaint
Mr H complains that Computershare Investor Services Plc failed to properly notify him of a 
corporate action affecting shares he held on its platform.
What happened
Mr H has shares in Company A which are held in Computershares corporate nominee 
account. 
Company A initiated a rights issue, allowing existing shareholders to purchase new shares at 
a favourable price. Computershare emailed Mr H on Company As behalf on 14 September 
2020 to notify him of this. The email explained there was a short timeframe for participation, 
and it directed readers to Company As website for full details of the rights issue. The final 
deadline for participation was 21 September 2020. 
Mr H says he didnt see the email at first because it went into his junk folder. He says he first 
saw the email on 21 September 2020. 
When he read the email and learnt of the rights issue, Mr H knew immediately that he 
wanted to participate. But he says that Computershares email wasnt clear on what he 
needed to do to get involved. So he called it the same day. 
Mr H says Computershares phone lines were busy and he couldnt get through, so he 
decided to try again another day. By the time he was able to speak to Computershare, the 
deadline for participation had expired.  
Mr H complained to Computershare. He said it wasnt his fault the email ended up in his junk 
folder. And that if the email had been clearer in its content, hed have been able to make full 
use of Company As rights issue. He also wasnt happy that Computershare was unable to 
answer his call on 21 September 2020. Computershare rejected Mr Hs complaint, so he 
referred the matter to us. 
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint, but didnt uphold it. As Mr H didnt accept our 
investigators findings, the matters been referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021  I said that I didnt intent to uphold the 
complaint. 
This is what I said: 
For the purposes of his shares in Company A, Computershare is Mr Hs nominee 
shareholder. Its terms and conditions say that in the event of a corporate action, like 
Company As, itll make efforts to treat Mr H as if he was a registered shareholder. So 
mindful of these terms, Id expect Computershare to promptly inform Mr H of any important 
information about his shares that he wouldnt otherwise know about. Especially when theres 
a choice to be made. And more broadly than this, when interacting with its clients, 
regulations require Computershare to communicate in a way thats clear, fair, and not 
misleading. Its for me to decide if Computershare has done so, and if it hasnt, to set out 
what should be done to put things right. 
Both parties agree the email this complaint stems from was sent to Mr H on 14 September 
2020. But from Mr Hs perspective, he says he didnt have the opportunity to review it prior to 
21 September 2020 because it ended up in his junk emails. 
Im sympathetic to Mr H in this scenario, but I cant reasonably blame Computershare for 
whats happened here. I can see the business records indicate Mr Hs preference is to 
receive communications by email, a point which Mr H hasnt contested. And I can also see 
that Computershares email to Mr H was sent within a few days of it learning of the rights 
issue, and in sufficient time that it wouldve given him as much as a week to review it and 
register for participation. The way Mr Hs email provider sorted and notified him of the 
incoming correspondence is not something Computershare could reasonably control. So Im 
satisfied that Computershares met with its obligations to Mr H here, and that its treated him 
fairly. 
Ive considered Mr Hs concerns that when he did receive the email, he found it unclear as to 
what hed need to do to participate in the rights issue. Ive reviewed a sample copy of the 
email which was sent to Mr H, but I dont find its content to be unclear. The email strongly 
recommends that recipients whore interested in the rights issue could obtain the full details 
by reviewing the prospectus available on Company As website. And makes it clear that 
because of the short deadline on participating, applications for additional shares must be 
made online. Ive reviewed the prospectus that Computershares email directed its readers 
to, and Im satisfied that it contained the key information about the rights issue. 
Im conscious the email itself doesnt explicitly set out the deadline for participating in the 
rights issue. It simply notes there is a short timeframe within which an application can be 
made. I accept therefore that it couldve been clearer. But this omission doesnt mean the 
email fails to meet with the standard required of Computershare. Crucially, the email was 
sent to Mr H in good time, and it highlighted the importance of reading the prospectus on 
Company As website which contained the full details. So in sending this email to Mr H, Im 
satisfied that Computershare has communicated with him in a way that was clear, fair, and 
not misleading.   
Its unfortunate that Mr H only discovered Computershares email on the day of Company 
As deadline. Its also unfortunate that due to the level of interest in the rights issue, 
Computershares phone lines were a lot busier than usual. But Computershares outlined the 
measures it took to try and cope with this sudden demand. Its explained it assigned extra 
staff to answer calls, and set up a call back service for phone calls it couldnt answer straight 
away. So whilst the circumstances were not ideal, I think Computershare has made a 
reasonable effort to make itself available to Mr H. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Computershares treated Mr H fairly in this matter. It sent him an 
email directing him towards a comprehensive document, a week ahead of the deadline. In 
my view, the primary cause of Mr H missing the opportunity was the fact he didnt see this 
email at an earlier stage. Whilst thats certainly unfortunate, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold 
Computershare responsible for Mr Hs loss of opportunity in these circumstances. 
Computershare accepted my decision without commenting further. But Mr H replied to say 
that: 
When he called Computershare on 21 September 2020, he waited on hold for fifteen 
minutes without answer  he didnt encounter the call back service Computershare 
has described. His follow up call to Computershare was the next morning on 22 September 2020.  
He feels that as his call went unanswered due to the high call volumes, 
Computershare ought to have made an exception and allowed him to participate. 
Hes quoted from rules which he believes wouldve required Computershare to allow 
him at least ten days to respond to its email.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. 
Unfortunately for Mr H, this wasnt a scenario in which Computershare had the discretion to 
simply amend the deadlines to allow his participation in the rights issue. Company A set the 
terms of the rights issue. And as the prospectus on Company As website made clear, the 
final deadline for participation was on 21 September 2020. As Ive said before, Mr H missing 
out on the opportunity to participate in the rights issue seems to have come as a result of 
unfortunate circumstances, not from Computershare treating him unfairly. 
With regard to Mr Hs concerns about Computershares telephone service, whilst I can 
sympathise, Ive already explained why I think the business did all it could here in 
challenging circumstances. I should also note that from what Ive understood, even if Mr H 
had been able to get through to Computershare, its likely he wouldve simply been directed 
back to the email which linked through to Company As website and its prospectus. Im 
satisfied that Computershares email to Mr H was clear enough in its instructions, that a call 
was unnecessary. The applications for Company As rights issue were being processed 
online. So even if I felt it was unfair or unreasonable that Mr H couldnt reach Computershare 
by phone, I dont think Mr Hs loss can reasonably be attributed to him not being able to 
speak to the business.  
Finally, Mr H has challenged the notion that he only had a week to consider 
Computershares email. Without full citation, hes referred to rules he says suggest any 
notification by email transmission to recipients should be given 10 days to respond. I know 
of no rule or law, which Computershare is bound by in its capacity as Mr Hs nominee, which 
would require it to provide him with a deadline of ten days when issuing correspondence 
relating to rights issues. As I established in my provisional decision, Computershares terms 
establish the way itll communicate with him. And more so, its obliged to communicate in a 
way thats clear, fair and not misleading. Mindful of the circumstances of Company As rights 
issue, I think that Computershare has met with its obligations to Mr H when it communicated 
with him. 
For the reasons given, I cant reasonably hold Computershare responsible for the fact its 
email was received into Mr Hs junk folder. Ive found its email was sent in good time and 
was sufficiently clear in its content that Mr H had a fair opportunity to participate in the rights 
issue. The evidence in this case persuades me that Computershare has met with its 
obligations to Mr H, were notifying him of the rights issue and his options is concerned. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Computershares treated Mr H fairly in this matter and I dont 
require it to take further action in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman