DRN-4054162
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined their claim under 
their life insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2011, Mrs H and Mr H took out a level term life insurance policy. The policy runs 
for 13 years, so expires in January 2024. It includes a terminal illness benefit.
In August 2022 Mr H was diagnosed with lung cancer. In September 2022 he made a claim 
for terminal illness benefit. This was declined by Aviva on the grounds that the policy 
definition of terminal illness had not been met.  Mrs H and Mr H complained, so Aviva 
reviewed its decision but maintained its position. 
Mrs H and Mr H were unhappy about this decision and came to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked into things for them but didnt uphold their complaint.  He 
was satisfied Aviva was reasonably entitled to decline the claim based on the medical 
evidence.
Mrs  H and Mr H disagreed so their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint.  I know this will be very unwelcome news 
for Mrs H and Mr H and I am sorry about that.  Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Mrs H and Mr Hs policy defines terminal illness as:
An advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness that, in the opinions of an 
attending Consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, means that the person covered is 
expected to die within 12 months and before the relevant cover end date.
Theres no dispute that Mr H has an advanced incurable illness. The issue in dispute is 
prognosis. 
In November 2022, his treating consultant oncologist, Dr M, gave the following opinion 
regarding life expectancy:
I would estimate his prognosis to be less than twelve months based on the diagnosis 
of metastatic lung adenocarcinoma, the time since he first represented with 
symptoms and this histology which is negative for PDL1 expression and has no 
actionable driver mutations.  
A further opinion was expressed in December 2022. By this point Mr H had commenced 
chemoimmunotherapy and Dr M anticipated performing a further scan in the new year to 
assess Mr Hs response to treatment. He said:
Estimating prognosis is always subject to a degree of uncertainty, however my 
opinion of 12 months or less seems a reasonable estimate from now.
But for the claim to succeed, the opinions of both the consultant and Avivas Chief Medical 
Officer (CMO) must support the policy definition for terminal illness.
Aviva obtained a CMO opinion from its consultant oncologist. The oncologist noted:
This client has commenced gold standard chemoimmunotherapy which significantly 
improves survival rates in PDL1 negative patients such as him. 62% of such patients 
were alive at 12 months in the key trial of this regimen.
On that basis Aviva declined the claim. When Aviva reviewed its decision, Mr H had had 
another CT scan, in December 2022. Dr M provided an update, stating that the majority of 
Mr Hs lung lesions were stable, although a few of them had reduced in size and there were 
also new lung nodules. However, he felt that on balance, the new nodules reflected 
inflammatory changes related to a respiratory tract infection rather than disease progression. 
It was agreed that treatment would continue with a repeat scan in 2-3 months.
Aviva again sought the opinion of its consultant oncologist. The oncologist explained that the 
December scan was being compared to a scan taken in July 2022 and showed stable 
disease overall, suggesting either indolent lung cancer or a positive response to treatment, 
both of which explanations indicated a better prognosis. 
Having reviewed the medical evidence against the policy term, I dont think Aviva has acted 
unfairly in declining Mrs H and Mr Hs claim. Their CMO wasnt satisfied on prognosis and 
Aviva is entitled to rely on his opinion. 
Finally, Im pleased to see Aviva has confirmed it would like to look at Mr Hs claim again 
once further scan results are available. Its said itll look at his response to treatment and 
whether theres been any progression to determine if at that stage the policy requirements 
for terminal illness are met.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman