DRN-3238656
The complaint
Ms S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc incorrectly reported to the credit reference 
agencies that she had a balance outstanding on her account when shed made a payment to 
clear the balance owed before the due date.
What happened
Ms S holds a credit card account with Capital One. 
Capital One sent an account statement dated 8 August 2021 to Ms S which showed an 
outstanding balance of £204.22. The statement said that the minimum payment was due on 
3 September 2021. Ms S says she sent a payment to clear the outstanding balance on or 
around 30 or 31 August 2021. Capital One received this on 1 September 2021.
Ms S later noticed that Capital One had reported to the credit reference agencies that she 
still had a balance outstanding on her account. She didnt think this was right given she had 
sent a payment to clear the balance. Ms S also said that her credit score had reduced, and 
this was because of what Capital One had reported. So, she complained to Capital One as 
she thought theyd made a mistake.
Capital One investigated Ms Ss complaint and responded at the end of September 2021. 
They explained they reported account information to the credit references at the end of each 
month. The information reported included:
the account balance on the last day of the month,
the balance on Ms Ss last statement, 
any payments received for her last statement; and
any payments that had been late or missed.
Capital One didnt agree that the information theyd reported was wrong. They also offered to 
amend Ms Ss statement and payment date if this helped.
Ms S wasnt happy with Capital Ones response. She thought they should only report her 
account after the payment due date. So, she decided to refer her complaint to this service.
Having considered Ms Ss complaint, our investigator didnt think Capital One had done 
anything wrong and had acted fairly and reasonably. But Ms S didnt agree with our 
investigators findings. She said that by reporting her account before her due payment date, 
any payment she made, on time, wasnt reflected in the balance reported. She thought 
Capital One were responsible for the reduction in her credit score.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Ms Ss complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One, as with other UK lenders, will report certain information about any individuals 
account to credit reference agencies on a regular basis. The nature and accuracy of that 
information is set down in rules by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Information 
is generally reported monthly.
Different businesses may submit their report on different days of the month. But a business 
will normally submit all the information they hold on the same day of each month. In Capital 
Ones case, they submit their reports on the last day of the month. As a result, their report 
acts as a snapshot at that point. Different consumers will have different payment dates, 
according to when they first opened their account. So, its commonplace that a business 
reporting date wont necessarily coincide with the payment date for each consumer. 
Its important the information is accurate on the date it is reported. So, if a balance is owed 
on that date, it will be reflected. But it will also reflect payments received during that month. 
This enables other prospective lenders to see whether an individual is making payments on 
time and how they are managing the credit they have.
In Ms Ss case, her payment due date is around the third day of each month. And because 
Capital One submit their reports on the last day of the month, its entirely reasonable to 
conclude that Ms Ss own file with show a balance owed at that time  unless Ms S was to 
repay that before the month end. 
I do understand why this might concern Ms S. She appears to want her credit file to show 
that she repays the balance owed each month. Her comments suggest that by reporting a 
balance owed, Capital One maybe implying she hasnt repaid what she owed. This isnt the 
case. In fact, an outstanding balance showed each month could demonstrate that Ms S is 
regularly using her account. The fact that no late payments are recorded could also 
demonstrate that she is managing her credit in a controlled way.
Ms S suggests that the nature of Capital Ones reporting has negatively impacted her credit 
score. Ive seen nothing that persuades me that is the case. Credit scores are different from 
a credit file. Different companies calculate credit scores in different ways based upon a 
range of factors. The information on Ms Ss credit file may be only one aspect.
Ms S believes Capital One should only report her account after her monthly payment date 
has passed. Unfortunately, that isnt usually practical. Each business generally submits their 
reports on the same day each month for all of their customers.
I would like to reassure Ms S that having reviewed all the information associated with her 
complaint and account with Capital One, Ive found nothing that suggests theyve done 
anything that would adversely impact her credit file. I do hope this provides her with some 
comfort. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman