DRN-2755543
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled his claim under his 
Commercial and Residential Landlords Insurance policy for damage caused by water 
ingress to his rental propertys ceiling. 
What happened
Mr Fs tenants let him know that there was water damage to ceilings inside the property. On 
investigation, he found that a dead bird had blocked the gully, causing rainwater to overflow 
and enter the property, damaging two ceilings in the rooms below. Mr F made a claim under 
his policy and AXA instructed surveyors to inspect and report on the damage.
Although Mr F wasnt claiming for external damage, AXA found rot in the roof timbers, 
suggesting it was an ongoing issue rather than a one-off insured event. Three months after 
the inspection, Mr F contacted AXA to chase an update on his claim. At this point AXA 
confirmed it had declined his claim.
Mr F carried out some temporary repairs to the ceilings. 
Three months on, Mr F contacted AXA again to challenge its decision. Hed had the roof 
repaired and retiled six years earlier following water ingress, and the roofer told him that 
although damaged, the timber beams wouldnt need to be replaced. So, while Mr F agreed 
that the beams showed some damage, water ingress wasnt an ongoing problem. He 
provided photos of the roof repairs and suggested that he and AXA split the cost of the 
ceiling repairs equally.
AXA responded more than two months later, initially offering £200 for the delays and 
maintaining its decision to decline the claim. It then offered to consider evidence from the 
roofer who completed the repairs in 2013. On receipt of the invoice and photos, AXA agreed 
to cover the claim under the escape of water peril because the claim was for the ceilings, not 
for the timber beams.
Mr F had provided an estimate for the work, totalling £4,392 but AXAs surveyor priced the 
work at £2,600. So, it offered Mr F £1,000 in line with his offer to settle at half the cost of 
repair (less £300 excess). Mr F complained because his suggestion wasnt based on AXAs 
costs. It maintained the offer of £1,000 but also gave him the option for its contractors to 
complete the repairs instead.
Our investigator recommended upholding Mr Fs complaint. He thought that AXA had made 
a fair offer in recognition of the avoidable delays in dealing with Mr Fs claim. But he didnt 
think AXAs claim settlement offer was fair. Our investigator pointed out that AXA offered to 
complete the work, so its cash settlement should be equal to what it wouldve paid. He also 
thought AXA should pay 8% simple interest on the cash settlement.
AXA didnt agree. It said that Mr F hadnt mitigated his loss, so its decision to offer half of its 
own cost to repair was reasonable. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
Claim
Mr Fs claim was for damage to the ceilings caused by water ingress. AXA declined the 
claim initially because of pre-existing damage to the timber beams. On receipt of evidence 
that Mr F had repaired his roof some years earlier, AXA agreed to his suggestion of splitting 
the settlement cost equally.
The water ingress was caused by a one-off event, which was resolved once Mr F removed 
the blockage from the gully. By agreeing to his offer to settle at half the cost, it seems to me 
that AXA accepted Mr F had a valid claim. While it now says he didnt mitigate his losses, 
that didnt form part of its consideration when initially declining, and then agreeing to cover 
half the cost. As AXA accepted the claim after receiving evidence from Mr F that hed 
repaired his roof some years earlier, it suggests to me that he had mitigated his losses. 
Therefore, I dont think its fair for AXA to limit the settlement now, for that reason, and Im 
satisfied that AXA accepted Mr F had a valid claim under his policy.
With that in mind, I note that Mr F hasnt claimed for any damage to the roof beams and his 
estimate was only for the internal ceiling repair work. So, when Mr F offered to settle at half 
the cost, its reasonable to say it was based on his own estimate. AXA made a counter offer 
which was to settle at half of its costs or to complete the work itself. I understand that using 
its own contractors wouldve cost AXA £2,600. Therefore, its offer was £1,000  half its cost 
less Mr Fs excess of £300. But by offering to complete the work, that tells me AXA was 
prepared to incur repair costs of £2,600. Half of Mr Fs estimate was £2,200. 
Looking at this information, it seems to me that each party is willing to settle the claim at a 
direct cost to them of roughly the same amount. Mr F isnt claiming for any more than AXA is 
willing to cover under his policy by doing the repairs itself. And AXAs reasons for limiting the 
cash settlement offer are based on damage that doesnt form part of the claim. So, to me, 
the fair thing to do here is to settle the claim in line with what it wouldve cost AXA to do the 
work. This is broadly in line with what Mr F wanted and its also consistent with the approach 
I think is fair when a cash settlement is the policyholders preferred option. It shouldnt 
usually cost AXA more to cash settle than it would cost it to complete the repairs itself. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that AXA should pay Mr F £2,300  the cost to AXA less his policy 
excess  to settle his claim. 
As the claim has been ongoing for two years, I think its reasonable to require AXA to pay 
8% simple interest from the date of Mr Fs claim to the date of settlement.
Delays
AXA offered Mr F £200 compensation because of the avoidable delays throughout his claim. 
The evidence shows that on three occasions, AXA took more than two to three months to 
respond to Mr Fs contacts. It also shows that AXA unsuccessfully attempted to contact Mr F 
by phone with the outcome of his claim, but he only received its decision because he chased 
an update several weeks later. So, for the direct inconvenience to Mr F as the landlord and 
policyholder, Im satisfied that compensation for the service shortfalls is warranted. I think 
AXAs offer of £200 is fair in the circumstances, and I understand Mr F accepted, so I wont 
be asking AXA to pay any additional compensation.Overall, its clear that AXA didnt handle Mr Fs claim promptly, and he had to chase 
reminders or wait a long time between communications. I think AXAs offer of £200 
compensation for the inconvenience was fair under the circumstances, and Im pleased to 
see that element of the complaint is settled. However, the evidence shows that there was a 
lack of clarity around AXAs response to, and acceptance of Mr Fs claim, and it unfairly 
limited his settlement. Therefore, Im satisfied that AXA should cash settle Mr Fs claim at its 
own cost to repair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and AXA 
Insurance UK Plc must:
cash settle Mr Fs claim at its own cost to repair, less his policy excess of £300, and
pay Mr F 8% simple interest* from the date of his claim to the date of settlement.
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman