DRN-3933405
The complaint
Mrs J, together with Mr J as trustees of the J trust, complains about the way ReAssure 
Limited has administered Mrs Js whole of life policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is detailed and is well known to both parties so I wont 
repeat it here. I sent out my provisional decision on 1 December 2022. In this decision I said 
the following:
Ive mentioned already that the submissions in this case are detailed and long. And 
although Ive not addressed each individual point, I have taken into account everything both 
parties have said throughout. This decision length and detail reflects the informal nature of 
this service.
Its important to note that this decision is based on the complaint we received in 2021 and 
does not seek to reopen or determine facts considered in the previous complaints. This 
complaint does reference the decision sent by another Ombudsman at this service as Mr 
and Mrs J feel ReAssure has acted against that decision. My decision focuses on what has 
happened after these previous cases were resolved and the mistakes ReAssure has made 
since then.
From looking at everything Ive decided to address the complaint in four main sections. 
These are as follows:
Increases applied to the original policy
Incorrect information about the policy values
Changing of policy numbers
Impact of ReAssures continual errors
Ive noted the January premium refund has been settled so I wont be addressing this issue 
in the decision.
Increases applied to the original policy
Mr and Mrs J believe that ReAssure is not allowed to apply any increases in premium to the 
original policy. For background, when Mrs Js policy needed a premium increase in the past 
ReAssure did this by way of top up policies. When Mrs J complained, an Ombudsman 
issued a decision to say ReAssure wasnt wrong in doing this. More recently, ReAssure has 
said its systems now allow it to apply the increases to the original policy.
Mr and Mrs J say that ReAssure now applying the increases to the original policy, rather 
than by way of a top up policy, is going against the final decision issued in 2017. Our 
Investigator explained to Mr and Mrs J that the decision said ReAssure can use top up 
policies and not that they must. Whilst I appreciate that Mr J feels this is semantics, I agree 
with the investigator.
As final decisions are published Ive included some relevant wording from that decision to 
demonstrate why I dont think ReAssure has gone against the decision. The decision says:
I also do not agree that ReAssure is acting incorrectly in interpreting the legislation it 
must follow when considering gender neutral rates or it is wrong in its view that it 
should do this by using top up policies.
I think we should draw an emphasis on the words its view here  the Ombudsman said that 
ReAssures view that it should increase premiums by way of top up policies wasnt wrong. 
The decision goes on to say:
I should clarify that it is my role to decide if ReAssure is doing something wrong  it 
is not my role to set best practice for it and it has commercial discretion as to how it 
makes changes. It has taken a decision as to how to apply increases in premium to 
maintain benefits and in terms of how it does this I do not believe I can say it has 
acted incorrectly.
This again simply says that ReAssure hasnt done anything wrong in choosing to increase 
premiums by using top-up policies, not that this was the only way it could increase 
premiums. The decision further concludes:
So my view is that whilst ReAssure can use top-up policies to maintain benefit 
levels, it must provide them on the same cover terms as apply to the original policies. 
That includes the frequency of the reviews. Although there is no indication that 
ReAssure will carry out a review more regularly than five years, if the original policies 
set out five yearly reviews, that must be adhered to on the top-up policies.
From this its clear to me that the Ombudsman said ReAssure can use top up policies, not 
that it must. The only thing that the Ombudsman concluded that it must do, is ensure that 
any top up policies, if used, should be on the same cover terms as the original policies. So, 
whilst I understand Mr and Mrs J strongly believe that ReAssure must only use top-up 
policies to increase the premiums and maintain policy benefits, I dont agree this is the case. 
ReAssure has now decided to amend the original cover to maintain the benefits of the policy, 
and I cant see anything to suggest it isnt allowed to do that.
Mr and Mrs J have said they dont accept that ReAssures ability to change the premium on 
the original policy is due to system changes. But ReAssure has explained that it used top-up 
policies because it couldnt amend the original policy and now its system allows this to 
happen. Ive not seen anything to suggest that this isnt correct, and Ive explained above 
why I dont think its wrong for ReAssure to do this.
Incorrect information about the policy values
It has been accepted that ReAssure gave incorrect details about the policy value at different 
points over the last few years. However, Im pleased to see it has now given Mr and Mrs J 
the unit statements for the last five years which confirms the policy value so I wont mention 
more about this except below when I address the continual errors.
However, Mr and Mrs J have raised issues about the unit statements. Specifically, they 
believe ReAssure has no need to increase the premiums to support the benefits. Mrs J says 
the units show the fund value for the life cover is £540.13 and the fund value for the critical 
illness is around £632. Therefore they believe theres a total of £1172 in the fund. They say 
that ReAssure has provided deceptive information.
Ive closely looked at the unit statements. And, I can see that the total fund value  across 
both the life cover and critical illness at the point of the 2021 review was £632. This was 
made up of the life cover fund value and the critical illness fund value which was less than 
£100 at the time.
I asked ReAssure to tell me why the increase in premium was necessary and it has 
explained the above. And said that as the fund for the critical illness part of the policy was 
low, this is the part that needed additional premiums. It confirmed that the premium for the 
life cover part didnt need to increase but the overall premium did, to continue to provide the critical illness cover for the next five years. Its projections showed that if no changes were 
made, the value for the critical illness part would only support the sum assured for around 
two years. Looking at the unit statements, Ive not seen enough to say that this wasnt the 
case. So, it follows that Im satisfied the information ReAssure has now provided to Mr and 
Mrs J is accurate and shows them the current state of the policy. Ive not seen enough to 
suggest the increase in premium wasnt necessary.
Changing of policy numbers
From looking at all the correspondence I believe this is the biggest issue here. Mr and Mrs J 
have been given different policy numbers which have led them to believe their trust may be 
invalidated.
Mrs Js policy had a specific number. When top up policies were required, there were 
additional numbers added. In 2018, following Mrs Js complaint, ReAssure had a senior 
member of staff set out what the policy numbers were so Mrs J could ensure that the 
purpose of the policy and trust could be maintained. However, in 2021, ReAssure quoted 
different policy numbers again. Whilst Ive summarised this briefly here, the effect of this on 
Mr and Mrs J has been significant. They have continually lost faith in ReAssure over the 
administration of these policies, and they are worried that because the policy numbers keep 
changing, they will lose track of the policies and they wont remain in trust which means the 
proceeds wont fall outside of the estate as intended.
When ReAssure has been asked to comment on why the numbers changed they gave 
conflicting answers, including that the numbers hadnt been changed. Both Mr J and Mrs J 
were given information at points suggesting their policies didnt exist which created a lot of 
worry.
As a result of the previous complaint, ReAssure sent out the policy numbers to Mr and Mrs J 
to confirm what they were and said these were finalised. So I can understand why they dont 
believe ReAssure when it says that those policy numbers were interim numbers and a 
system update means the current numbers are final.
Its clear from reading all the correspondence that the representatives at ReAssure arent 
clear on why the policy numbers have changed, and its disappointing that it didnt think to 
engage with Mr and Mrs J about this given it has been raised multiple times as an issue in 
the past. However, Ive nothing to suggest that the policy numbers that are being quoted 
currently are incorrect. Its also common for large businesses to update systems and this 
sometimes means there are administrative changes. I appreciate Mr and Mrs J feel that the 
change in policy numbers fundamentally changes the policy but ReAssure have explained 
the underlying policy is the same.
Given the stress that this has caused Mr and Mrs J, as they are worried about what it means 
for the trust, ReAssure suggested a trust addendum could be prepared to update the policy 
reference numbers. I think this is reasonable. But I echo our Investigator that ReAssure 
needs to instruct a suitably senior member of staff to issue a letter setting out the policy 
numbers  including which numbers they replace, and that no actual changes to the policy 
have taken place aside from administrative ones. If, following that, the trustees believe a 
trust addendum is necessary, ReAssure should pay the reasonable cost of facilitating this.
Impact of ReAssures continual errors
Ive not yet listed the number of errors that ReAssure has made when talking to Mrs J about 
this policy, and I wont list them all. But it has taken a significant amount of time for Mrs J to 
get details of her policy value as she was given incorrect fund values on a number of 
occasions. There have been changes to the way premiums are increased without 
explanation, despite this being the topic of a complaint before. And they have been given a 
variety of policy numbers to the point that any person would become confused and 
concerned. ReAssure also issued letters suggesting Mrs J had missed a premium and have subsequently said it cannot find records of these letters being sent even though it appears 
she hasnt missed premiums. Put simply, it became extremely difficult for Mrs J to 
understand her policy and what was happening.
Its very clear from looking at the communication from Mr and Mrs J how much these policies 
mean. And, given the purpose of the policy is to provide a lump sum at death to fall outside 
of the estate, Mrs J cannot simply cancel the policy and move to another provider. She is in 
a position where she cannot go elsewhere but is getting conflicting information from 
ReAssure. Alongside the miscommunication, changing policy numbers, failures to call back, 
incorrect policy values and missed reviews, ReAssure hasnt been able to be clear on how 
Mrs Js policy works. And its even failed to collect premiums and put the policy on hold 
whilst it collated statements  leading to Mrs J believing her policy may lapse. All of this has 
caused her significant stress as well as inconvenience.
Our Investigator, in both her views, outlined at length many of the failings and the impact this 
had on Mr and Mrs J. It is very clear how Mrs J needs to be aware of how her policy is 
working and be able to track it. The way Reassure has communicated with her has meant 
she simply wasnt able to do this. I agree with our Investigator that £1,500 compensation is 
fair and reasonable for the significant stress that ReAssure has caused Mrs J.
Going forward
I appreciate that Mrs Js trust in ReAssure has been lost, and thats a difficult position to be 
in when these policies are supposed to be in place for the rest of her life. Unfortunately, its 
impossible for this service to predict what issues may crop up in future. But I think the 
redress set out below goes some way in ensuring Mrs J doesnt lose out and is able keep 
track of her policies  which from what I understand are still in place and have only had 
administrative changes which shouldnt affect the trust. And, if the trustees feel it necessary, 
then an addendum can be put in place, the reasonable costs of which should be met by 
ReAssure.
Putting things right
In summary, ReAssure hasnt treated Mrs J fairly. To resolve this complaint it must do the 
following:
Ensure that both the original and top-up policy are reviewed on the contractual 
review date
Issue a letter (written by a suitably senior member of staff) setting out the new policy 
numbers, including which numbers they replace, and that no changes to the policy 
have taken place other than administrative ones
Pay the reasonable cost of facilitating a trust addendum if deemed necessary by the 
trustees
Pay Mrs J a total of £1,500  ReAssure may deduct any compensation already paid 
in relation to this complaint from this amount.
Responses to the provisional decision
ReAssure responded and has outlined in the main its acceptance to the provisional decision. 
It also explained why it couldnt provide the dates on which the policy numbers were 
changed.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed. They have submitted detailed correspondence in relation to this 
complaint and the provisional decision and set out what they believe the Ombudsman should 
be considering. Ive summarised their key points as follows:
- Reassure is breaking UK trust laws
- The Ombudsman hasnt considered the 2017 and 2018 complaint files- The 2018 correspondence from ReAssure set out that the policy numbers were final 
so Mrs J does not accept any changes to the numbers
- Neither the Financial Ombudsman Service nor a Court can change policy numbers in 
an irrevocable trust
- The Financial Ombudsman Service should only accept facts backed up with 
evidence and Mrs J doesnt accept ReAssures explanations as fact
- The previous decision issued in 2017 ruled that ReAssure must use top-up policies 
for premium increases  ReAssure cannot go against this ruling which it is now doing
- It is wrong to accept ReAssure made a mistake when it said the previous policy 
numbers were final
- ReAssure hasnt provided unit statements in the correct format
- The Ombudsman hasnt covered the changing of policy numbers in the provisional 
decision, and that change is a contractual change which ReAssure isnt permitted to 
do
- ReAssure has combined two policies  a life policy and a critical illness policy  into 
one which is breaking regulations
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered in great detail the submissions of Mr and Mrs J. I first want to point out 
that the scope and purpose of this decision is to address the complaint made in 2021. Mr 
and Mrs J have continually referenced a decision made in 2017  one which Ive referenced 
above in my provisional decision. Whilst this is referenced, this complaint and decision is 
solely about what has happened after this.
Ill also point out that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to court. 
We are a dispute resolution service and our remit is to reach decisions which are fair and 
reasonable on individual complaints. We do not provide a forensic service or reach 
outcomes in the same way a court would. With that in mind Ill address the additional points 
made in response to my provisional decision.
Neither party has given me any additional evidence in this case, and so my decision remains 
the same as set out in my provisional decision (extract above) for the same reasons. 
The 2017 and 2018 complaint files
Mr and Mrs J have referenced the outcomes of both their 2017 and 2018 complaints. My role 
isnt to expand on those outcomes. However, Mr and Mrs J have said ReAssure were told in 
the 2017 decision that it can only use top up policies for premium increases. I already dealt 
with this point in my provisional decision where I concluded that ReAssure wasnt acting 
unreasonably in using top up policies for premium increases. Nothing Mr and Mrs J have 
sent in relating to the wording of that decision leads me to conclude that ReAssure was 
bound to only use top up policies in the future. I concluded that ReAssures reasoning of a 
system update which enables it to now apply increases to the original policy was reasonable 
and I still dont think its done anything wrong in doing this.
It is not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to direct a business on how it should 
operate, this includes the way it administers its policies. Ive not seen any evidence to show 
ReAssure has gone against a previous decision, or that it is administering its policies in a 
way which goes against the terms.
Changing of policy numbersThis remains the key issue. Mrs J has said that I hadnt covered this off in my provisional 
decision but I had ensured it was addressed. Mrs J has said she doesnt accept the policy 
number change. I can understand why she feels this way, but Ive not seen evidence to 
suggest ReAssure is able to reverse the change. Whilst Mr and Mrs J dont accept the 
reasons put forward by ReAssure, I dont consider them unreasonable. Whilst ReAssure has 
given conflicting information, it has said the policy numbers have changed due to system 
changes which I think is likely. I have already pointed out that this was disappointing, 
particularly after the correspondence in 2018. And Ive accounted for that when awarding 
redress in this case. But Ive not seen evidence to suggest that the policy number change 
was anything other than administrative.
Mr and Mrs J say they spoke to the FCA, and that it said ReAssure cannot change the terms 
of the contract in the way that it has done. I do not believe that the change in the policy 
number here has changed the terms of the contract. Its not uncommon to see changes 
around policy numbers when systems are migrated  which happens during company 
changes. Ive not been persuaded that Mrs Js underlying policy has been changed as a 
result of the policy number change.
Trust issues
Throughout this complaint Mrs J has outlined the legal implications of ReAssures actions. 
Shes talked about the fact the policies are written into trust and that it cannot be amended. 
Mrs J has said her lawyers advised her the trust had been invalidated, but throughout the 
length of this complaint Ive not seen evidence to support this. And Im directing ReAssure to 
pay the costs for an addendum to the trust should one be necessary. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs J have said they chose to put the policies in an irrevocable trust to 
prevent any further changes. But I should point out that theres no guarantee administrative 
changes wont happen in the future  and I cant see that they were ever given such a 
guarantee previously.
Mr and Mrs J say the Financial Ombudsman Service should only accept facts backed up 
with evidence. I must note at this point that they havent provided evidence to show me their 
trusts are invalidated. And in any event, my role here is to weigh up the evidence I do have 
to determine what is fair and reasonable. In this case, I think its fair ReAssure pays towards 
the legal costs if its deemed necessary for a trust addendum to be put in place because of 
the policy number changes. And this is because ReAssure shouldnt have told Mrs J in 2018 
that the policy numbers were final when it ought to have known the numbers were interim.
Other issues
The other issues Mr and Mrs J have raised relate to the unit statements ReAssure sent and 
that they believe the new policy numbers are fictitious. Ive seen the unit statements, I dont 
think ReAssure needs to send these in a different format. 
Mr and Mrs J have said they feel ReAssures new policy numbers have been made up. The 
statements they have sent Mrs J show what the policy numbers are. Whilst they have 
changed, Im satisfied that it covers the same policy that Mrs J has. Im also satisfied that 
whilst both types of cover (life and critical illness) are listed under the policy number, this 
doesnt lessen Mrs Js entitlement to either benefit. Its not uncommon to see a policy which 
contains both life cover and critical illness cover. And Ive not been given any evidence to 
show that this has an effect on the trust or is against any regulations
I understand Mrs J will be unhappy with this decision. And I appreciate that she has spent 
the last few years raising issues with ReAssures handling of her policies. Ive concluded that 
ReAssure hasnt acted in the way Id expect and its clear it hasnt treated Mrs J fairly. This is 
reflected in the redress. But Ive not seen evidence to suggest that it wasnt permitted to 
make the policy number changes, top ups to the original policy or that these changes have invalidated the trust set up. Mr and Mrs J have referenced their legal team many times. Id 
like to point out that they are free to reject this decision and pursue legal action.
Going forward
I appreciate that Mrs Js trust in ReAssure has been lost, and thats a difficult position to be 
in when these policies are supposed to be in place for the rest of her life. Unfortunately, its 
impossible for this service to predict what issues may crop up in future. But I think the 
redress set out below goes some way in ensuring Mrs J doesnt lose out and is able keep 
track of her policies  which from what I understand are still in place and have only had 
administrative changes which shouldnt affect the trust. And, if the trustees feel it necessary, 
then an addendum can be put in place, the reasonable costs of which should be met by 
ReAssure.
Putting things right
In summary, ReAssure hasnt treated Mrs J fairly. To resolve this complaint it must do the 
following:
Ensure that both the original and top-up policy are reviewed on the contractual 
review date
Issue a letter (written by a suitably senior member of staff) setting out the new policy 
numbers, including which numbers they replace, and that no changes to the policy 
have taken place other than administrative ones
Pay the reasonable cost of facilitating a trust addendum if deemed necessary by the 
trustees
Pay Mrs J a total of £1,500  ReAssure may deduct any compensation already paid 
in relation to this complaint from this amount
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited must follow the 
directions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J as 
trustees of the J trust to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman