DRN-3343977
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as W has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Miss S, a director of W, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf. 
What happened
W held a business protection insurance policy with Allianz. It claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Allianz turned down Ws claim. It said the interruption to Ws business had been caused by 
the Government Regulations rather than because of damage or a notifiable disease at Ws 
premises. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, W brought its complaint to our service. It referred to the 
Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business Interruption 
Insurance test case in support of why its claim should be paid. 
W said one of its employees had been at its premises and had experienced symptoms of 
Covid-19. It provided a staff rota, medical records and text messages which it thought 
supported this. W also said that its policy didnt specifically exclude cover for Covid-19 or 
similar diseases and an exclusion for Covid-19 had been added at the policy renewal, which 
indicated that the policy in place at the time of the claim provided cover. 
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
W asked for an ombudsmans decision. It referred to Corbin and King Ltd v AXA Insurance 
UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) (Corbin and King) as it thought this meant its claim 
should be paid. W said the policy covered closure or restrictions placed on the premises and 
so its claim should be paid.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ws business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ws claim.
Premises closure or restrictions
The most relevant part of this extension covers loss resulting from business interruption or 
interference in consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a 
Notifiable Human Disease occurring at the Premises
W has referred to part of this extension, but it needs to be considered in its entirety. 
That means each part needs to have occurred in order for it to provide cover. For this 
to provide cover for Ws claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would 
need to be as a result of a notifiable human disease occurring at the premises. The 
policys definition of a notifiable human disease includes Covid-19.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
W has provided a copy of a rota showing that its employee was working at its premises 
between 16 and 19 March 2020. It has also provided GP consultation notes from March and 
June 2020 and text messages from March 2020. While the GP notes and text messages 
show that the employee was unwell they dont indicate that its likely that the employee had 
Covid-19. I have to bear in mind that most people at that time didnt have Covid-19 and the 
GP hasnt indicated that they think the symptoms were as a result of Covid-19. Therefore, I 
dont think I can fairly conclude that W has shown its more likely than not that Covid-19 
occurred at its premises. 
W has also referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case. However, the 
wording considered in the test case was different to that within Ws policy and whether a 
claim should be paid still depends on the wording of the policy. Ws policy requires the 
closure or restrictions to have been as a result of notifiable disease at its premises and as 
W hasnt shown thats most likely, its reasonable for Allianz to say this extension doesnt 
cover its claim. 
Denial of access
This extension covers loss resulting from business interruption or interference in 
consequence of:
Damage from the Insured Perils to property within a one mile radius of the 
Premises which shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to the Insured's 
Premises whether or not there has been Damage to the Premises or Property of 
the Insured but excluding the property of any supply undertaking from which the 
Insured obtains electricity gas water or telecommunications services subject to a 
maximum of £100,000 for any one lossThe policy defines damage as Loss destruction of or damage to the Property insured. 
For this extension to provide cover the interruption to Ws business would need to be due to 
damage, as defined in the policy, to property within a one mile radius. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that the interruption to Ws business was due to damage to property 
within a one mile radius that hindered the use of or access to Ws premises, so this doesnt 
cover its claim. W has referred to the judgment in Corbin and King, but I dont think the 
judgment impacts Ws claim. Thats because the clause in Ws policy is different to that 
which was considered by the court, and in Ws case there is a requirement for there to have 
been damage to property in order for the policy to provide cover. 
W has also pointed out that at the renewal of its policy Allianz added an exclusion for Covid-
19. However, this doesnt mean the policy in place at the time of the claim provided cover, as 
there wasnt a clause in the policy that covered the circumstances of the claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome W was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I cant fairly require Allianz to pay Ws claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman