Page 1 of 5The complaint
Mr S complains that Omni Capital Finance Limited unfairly declined his claim under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a shed hed acquired under a fixed sum loan which 
he says wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mr S entered into a two-year fixed sum loan which was only to be used for 
the purchase of certain goods or services, which in Mr Ss case was for a shed hed selected 
from a retailer. The total cost of the shed was £1,470 and Mr S paid £147.20 as deposit.
The shed was delivered to Mr S in April 2022. He says that in line with the assembly 
instructions that were provided with the shed, hed treated the shed parts prior to building it. 
Mr S also says that due to where the shed was to be positioned, it wouldnt have been 
possibly to treat the wood once it had been installed.
Mr S says that he and his son are both experienced in working with wood and they arranged 
to assemble the shed together. He says that before building it, they had found that the shed 
panels werent in line leaving large gaps. Mr S says that due to the quality of the shed parts 
he then decided not to assemble it. Mr S complained to the retailer about two weeks after 
the shed had been delivered. 
Mr S told the retailer he thought the shed wasnt of satisfactory quality and that he wished to 
have it collected and the agreement cancelled. He also provided photos of the various shed 
parts to support his complaint. The retailer declined Mr Ss request as it said he had treated 
the wood before assembly which wasnt in accordance with the agreements terms and 
conditions as it had been modified. 
Mr S made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to Omni. Omni 
investigated and declined Mr Ss claim as it said the retailer hadnt breached their contract 
with Mr S. Mr S complained to Omni about its decision, but it didnt uphold his complaint.
Omni said that the retailer was unable to take back items that had been started to be 
assembled. It also said that as set out in the retailers terms and conditions Wood is a 
natural material and carries unique characteristics. This results in no two pieces being the 
same in appearance. Whilst we endeavour to make sure all sections are as equal to one 
another as possible, its inevitable there may be misalignment from time to time. This is 
normally caused by thermal expansion/contraction and with the panels made in different 
batches, this cannot be remedied. In action to this, we supply cover strips which take the eye DRN-3678277
Page 2 of 5away from cladding that doesnt match perfectly. It said that the issues raised by Mr S were 
covered by the terms and conditions.
Mr S was unhappy at Omnis response and complained to this service. He said he was 
following the instructions in treating the wood before assembling the shed and that it had 
never actually been assembled because of the gaps that had been discovered when lining 
up the sides.
Our investigator recommended Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
assembly instructions had said both that the shed should be treated before assembly and 
also afterwards. Our investigator that the retailer had considered the treating of the wood as 
modifying the structure, but he thought that was unfair as the terms and conditions didnt set 
out that treating the wood would be considered as making modifications.
Our investigator said hed seen that the retailer had accepted that Mr Ss photos showed that 
the shed was under par compared to our usual standards and that given Mr Ss experience 
working with wood, that his assertion the panels didnt line up was reasonable. He said Mr S 
had sought to exercise his short-term right to reject under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
which the retailer had unfairly rejected. 
Our investigator said he thought it would be fair for the shed to be collected, the finance 
agreement to be cancelled and Mr S to refund his deposit and any monthly payments hed 
made under the agreement. Our investigator also said it would be fair for Omni to pay Mr S 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty 
shed.
Mr S agreed with the view of our investigator, but Omni disagreed. It said that the photos 
provided by Mr S showed acceptable shed sections that were within the tolerances for wood. 
It also said that as per the terms and conditions the retailer couldnt accept return of goods 
that werent in their original condition.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Omni has acted fairly and reasonably in its 
response to Mr Ss claim under section 75. And where evidence is contradictory or 
missing then I have to decide what I think is the most likely thing to have happened.
Mr S requested that due to a breach of contract due to the quality of the shed that 
the finance agreement for the goods should be cancelled and all payments made by 
him be reimbursed. Omni declined the claim as it said there hadnt been a breach 
because the issues raised by Mr S werent faults but within usual tolerances from 
wooden materials.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 may apply when the goods purchased via 
a credit agreement cost over £100 and up to a limit of £30,000. The general effect of 
the section is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a credit agreement 
and they have a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like claim against the credit 
provider, which here is Omni.
In reaching my decision as to whether Omni has acted fairly, Ive looked at the photos Page 3 of 5provided by Mr S and also considered the contractual terms and conditions that applied 
when Mr S purchased the shed. Omni says the photos dont show there were any faults with 
the shed but rather minor defects that should be expected due to the material and which 
dont impact on the use and purpose of the shed.
Ive seen that the terms and conditions set out that its inevitable there may be misalignment 
from time to time and that the retailer supplied cover strips which take the eye away from 
cladding that doesnt match perfectly. These terms also set out that the shed came with a 
guarantee which states that Due to the nature of the timber used in the manufacture of the 
building, there are characteristics that are not covered by the guarantee as minor defects will 
occur naturally in the material and are also due to changes in the external environment and 
wont affect the integrity of the building. These are:
Splits in the timber that may occur naturally or due to damage from the assembly.
Warping of the timber, as this will occur naturally over time.
Chips in the timber from knot holes, as these can be repaired easily using non-toxic 
wood glue.
Sap residue from timber as this occurs naturally.
Colouration of the timber, where pressure treated timber will slightly change in colour 
over time.
Gaps caused by the expansion and contraction of the timber throughout the seasons.
So, I accept that its clear from these terms and conditions that it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect the shed not to have some minor defects. However, Ive seen Mr S is experienced in 
handling and working with wood so I think its fair to say he would have a good 
understanding of the nature of the material.
Mr S has provided a number of photos of the various parts of the shed. Im aware the shed 
wasnt actually assembled as Mr S said the quality of the parts meant it couldnt have been 
built to suitable standard.
Looking at these photos I can see that the shed panels cladding would have been 
misaligned and I accept that this, although impacting on how it looked, wouldnt have 
necessarily affected its function. There are also some splits in the wood around screw holes 
which again I accept may not have affected the sheds function. However, it is also clear 
from some of the photos that the panels werent straight by a large margin which would have 
meant sizeable gaps in the walls when assembled.
Ive also seen in an email sent by the retailer to Omni that on viewing Mr Ss photos it 
accepted the shed was definitely under par. I think it is reasonable to think that the retailer 
considered the shed wasnt as would be expected. And although the retailer says that due to 
the goods being wooden, they would change, move and shape over time, Mr S had only 
had the shed for around two weeks. So, although wood may change over time, I think its 
reasonable for Mr S to have expected hed be able to build the shed without gaps and 
crooked walls. The shed should have been of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose when 
supplied to Mr S.
Mr S described the following in respect of how hed found the shed, the floor would not join 
together square. Trying to join the panels, not one panel was aligned with another side by 
side, all out of square. If the top met, the bottom didnt and if the bottom met the top didnt 
and so full of gaps it would leak like a sieve when it rains.  I think the photos that have been 
provided support Mr Ss description of the shed.
Im satisfied on the evidence that I have seen that the shed wasnt of a satisfactory quality at 
its point of supply to Mr S. However, Omni says that because Mr S had treated the shed 
parts this was in breach of the contract terms and conditions and the retailer was justified in Page 4 of 5declining to accept it back. However, I disagree with that view. Looking at the assembly 
instructions provided to Mr S, these set out that the wood could be treated both before and 
after assembly. The terms and conditions state that the wood should be treated at the time 
of the first build which I think is open to be interpreted as shortly before or after erecting the 
building. 
I also think it was reasonable for Mr S to have treated the wood before the shed was 
constructed as that would have been far easier than when erected when looking at where Mr 
S planned to position the shed. So, looking at the instructions and the terms and conditions, I 
dont think it was made clear that if the wood was treated before the shed was assembled 
then Mr S wouldnt be entitled to return it.  I dont agree that treating the wood is modifying it 
since that is not set out in any of the information provided to Mr S. And in any event, I think 
this reason for declining to take the shed back is unfair on Mr S when the shed itself had 
been inherently fault at the point of supply to him.
Ive seen that the retailer was unhappy not to have been given an opportunity of repairing 
the shed. But Im satisfied on the evidence that I have seen, that Mr S attempted to use his 
short-term right to reject the goods as set out in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and which is 
also set out in the terms and conditions of the contract. The terms and conditions say that if 
the goods were found to be defective then Mr S would be entitled to the following: a) Up to 
30 days: if your goods are faulty, then you can get an immediate refund. b) Up to six months: 
if your goods cant be repaired or replaced, then youre entitled to a full refund, in most 
cases. Mr S had complained to the retailer about the quality of the shed within 14 days and 
requested to return the goods and cancel the agreement.
I think the retailer acted unfairly in declining to allow Mr S to reject the shed as the evidence 
hed provided in the form of photos corroborated his complaint that the goods werent of 
satisfactory quality and that there had been a breach of the contract. 
So, looking at the evidence I dont think Omni has acted fairly in declining Mr Ss section 75 
claim in respect of the shed. I think Mr S provided the necessary evidence to show the shed 
was of unsatisfactory quality and that there had been a breach of contract. He also showed 
hed sought to reject the goods within the first 30 days of receiving them and so would have 
been entitled to a full refund. Im therefore upholding his complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Omni to do the following:
Arrange for the collection of the goods from Mr S at a time suitable to him.
Cancel the finance agreement and mark it as settled.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Mr Ss credit file.
Refund Mr S his deposit of £147.20.
Refund Mr S all the payments he has made towards this agreement.
Add 8% simple interest to all refunded amounts from the date of payment until the
date of settlement.
I further think that it would be fair for Omni to pay Mr S compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by his having to deal with the faulty shed and for denying his claim, 
which included Mr S receiving some subsequent correspondence to Mr S from the retailer. I 
think £150 would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Page 5 of 5My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Im asking Omni Capital 
Retail Finance Limited to do the following:
Arrange for the collection of the goods from Mr S at a time suitable to him.
Cancel the finance agreement and mark it as settled.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Mr Ss credit file.
Refund Mr S his deposit of £147.20.
Refund Mr S all the payments he has made towards this agreement.
Add 8% simple interest to all refunded amounts from the date of payment until the
date of settlement. *
Pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused dealing with
the faulty shed and for having his section 75 claim declined.
*HMRC requires Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited deduct tax from this interest. It must
provide Mr S with a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman