DRN-3107447
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has dealt with a claim she made 
after a water leak in her utility room. 
What happened
Ms P had a leak in her utility room which led to some water damage to the floor and units in 
the room.
Ms P put in a claim under her home insurance and UKI agreed to replace the damaged units 
and flooring in the room. UKI tried to source the same units as Ms P had, but they were no 
longer available, so it explained shed need to choose new units. She then asked UKI about 
her kitchen units. She explained that shed had the utility room and kitchen done at the same 
time and put in as a matching set. So she wanted the kitchen units to be replaced too, so 
everything still matched. She explained she had this cover under her policy.
UKI explained that it didnt consider the units in the utility room and kitchen a set. And it 
also explained that even if it had, there wasnt matching set cover under the Buildings 
element of the insurance, this was excluded. Ms P didnt agree and brought her complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. She didnt agree the units did 
form part of a matching set. Or that they would be covered by this claim. Ms P disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms of Ms Ps cover and the layout of her home to determine whether 
she is covered for both her utility room and kitchen units under her policy.
Ms P has explained that she bought the kitchen and utility room units together, and as she 
had a matching set of units before the flood, she should have one after. But I dont agree this 
is how her policy works. 
While Ms P has some matching set cover, it is listed under the Contents section of her 
policy, not Buildings. Her claim for the leak is under the Buildings element of her cover. The 
Buildings cover section has a specific exclusion for sets, but Ill come to that after my 
consideration of whether the units do constitute a set.
Ms Ps utility room is separate from the kitchen  it has four solid walls and a solid door to 
enter the kitchen. So Im satisfied it is its own room and would be defined as such on any 
plans. Due to this, while I accept Ms P bought the utility and kitchen units at the same time, I 
dont agree they actually form part of a matching set. It was Ms Ps personal choice to 
match the rooms and I appreciate why she did this, but that doesnt make them a set. So I 
dont consider a matching set term could be applied in this situation.
Ms P has argued that she hasnt been indemnified by the policy if the units no longer match, 
as she is in a different position after the flood than before it. But I dont agree its within the 
scope of her policy to update her entire, undamaged kitchen to make it match another room. 
Her policy is designed to rectify damage from insured events. She had a water leak in her 
utility room, and this damaged it  the insured event. So the policy is required to restore this 
room to its pre-damaged state. Ms P is aware that the units she had arent available 
anymore, so the policy cant directly replace these as they dont exist. So instead, the insurer 
has agreed to replace the units with ones of Ms P choice. I think this is the policy acting as 
intended, once this work is complete, she will again have a utility room with undamaged 
units. And if Ms P now wants the rooms to match, its for her to cover these additional costs. 
UKI has explained to Ms P that even if her kitchen units were considered part of a set, as 
shes claiming under the Buildings cover section, there is an exclusion for any undamaged 
parts of a set. I dont consider we need to apply this exclusion as they arent a set, but 
having read it through, even if I considered that the units were a set, Im satisfied this 
exclusion would then apply to this claim. So Ms Ps undamaged kitchen units arent covered 
by her policy and UKI doesnt need to replace them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman