DRN-3950130
The complaint
Mr G complains DFS Trading Limited misled him into making a purchase, and in turn, 
completing a credit application to finance it. His also unhappy there was a search listed on 
his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 27 January 2023. In this, I explained DFS should pay 
Mr G £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mr G is experiencing due to their 
mistake. DFS accepted my provisional decision, but Mr G didnt. He said the following:
Hes unhappy DFS sent him a cheque for £250 (without a letter of apology) despite 
him not agreeing to settle his complaint.
Hes still being treated for his mental health conditions, and I hadnt asked him for 
medical reports or prescriptions.
He doesnt consider taking two weeks to request removal of the credit search was 
prompt.
He never said that he was unable to get credit or a financial product.
DFS obtained his personal data unlawfully, and hes worried about what the adviser 
did with them. This makes him concerned to share his personal data with other 
businesses.
I didnt clarify why he isnt entitled to compensation over £1,500.
Ive considered what Mr G has told us. However, Ive not been persuaded to change my 
decision. Ill explain my reasoning below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint (albeit not as he wants) for 
these reasons:
DFS have demonstrated theyve taken steps to remove the search from Mr Gs credit 
file. DFS accepted they made a mistake, so it was only fair this search was removed. 
Businesses, like DFS, deal with multiple customers at any given time, meaning they 
cant always provide immediate responses or respond in the timeframe a customer 
would prefer. They had eight weeks to investigate and resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
Given they removed the search in two weeks, and told Mr G at the same time, I still 
consider they did so quickly. The timeframe in which this was done persuades me 
that DFS took Mr Gs concerns seriously.
While Mr G may not have explicitly expressed concern about being able to obtain 
credit, my decision was based on his testimony. This explained his unhappiness with 
having a search on his credit file  and he sent me a copy of a search he said was 
still showing. Because of that, I felt it necessary to address this point  and its for me 
to decide how best to comment on the points referred to our Service.
As explained in my provisional decision, Ive not seen anything to persuade me 
Mr Gs credit score or ability to obtain credit was affected by DFS mistake. The 
extract of Mr Gs credit file that he sent us refers to a soft search, but also doesnt 
mention the name of the business who conducted it. Soft searches arent visible to 
lenders, nor do they impact a persons credit score. This explanation is visible on the 
website Mr G used to check his credit file, so Im satisfied he had access to this 
information.
I appreciate Mr G has said he doesnt know what DFS adviser did with his personal 
details. However, Ive seen nothing to demonstrate the adviser handled Mr Gs 
personal data outside his capacity as an employee for DFS. Its not for our Service to 
make findings on hypothetical situations. And in the absence of any evidence to 
suggest what happened was anything other than a mistake, my position remains the 
same on this point. I should also add that I dont consider its unusual Mr G didnt 
speak with the same adviser again, or that DFS should be penalised for their advisor 
taking annual leave. I cant agree thats a reason to safely conclude the 
circumstances complained about were more than a mistake.
Before issuing my provisional decision, I asked Mr G to explain how his health had 
been impacted and what treatments he was receiving. When responding to this query 
Mr G could have provided medical reports if he wished, but he didnt. However, Im 
satisfied he provided sufficient information for me to reach a decision. I have no 
reason to disbelieve what he told me and explained the same in my provisional 
decision. Its for this reason I dont consider its necessary to wait for additional 
medical evidence before issuing my final decision. Additionally, we are an informal 
alternative to the Courts, and unfortunately it seems Mr G is hoping for a level of 
investigation and commentary our Service doesnt have the power to provide. That is 
why I havent commented on whether DFS has acted unlawfully or referenced 
specific case law, legislation, or regulations. While I have taken these things into 
consideration, our role is to make a finding on what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable  and thats what Ive done.
Mr G says I didnt clarify why he isnt entitled to a minimum of £1,500 compensation. 
However, Im satisfied my provisional decision clearly explained what I considered 
was a fair award and the reasons why. What this comes down to is a difference of 
opinion. Taking everything into consideration, I still consider an award of £250 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. While I empathise with the difficult time Mr G is 
going through, I cant ignore the fact his main concerns are hypothetical situations. 
There is no guarantee or evidence to persuade me that DFS mistake means Mr G 
will experience something similar, or worse, at the hands of another financial 
business. So, I cant place weight on those concerns when deciding an appropriate 
award. However, its reasonable to conclude there would have been a level of 
disappointment, worry and inconvenience when Mr G realised he couldnt receive the 
bed he ordered; and that he'd mistakenly been made to complete a credit application. 
And its Mr Gs specific circumstances with his health that made me consider an 
award of £250 is fair. Were it not for the impact on his health, the award would have 
been lower. 
For these reasons, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Gs complaint about DFS Trading Limited.
DFS Trading Limited has already sent Mr G a cheque for £250 to settle his complaint, and 
as mentioned above, I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman