DRN-3457073
The complaint
Mr U complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (AFS). 
Mr U has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mr U 
in my decision.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr U acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with AFS. 
The purchase price of the car was £41,305. An advanced payment of £6,570 was made, 
which meant that the total amount financed on this agreement was £34,735 payable over 45 
monthly repayments.
Mr U explained that about a month after acquiring his car, it started experiencing electrical 
faults. Mr U said he wasnt able to use the multimedia interface (MMI) screen, which 
included the satellite navigation (satnav) or make any phone calls which included an 
emergency call function. Mr U said it was distressing for him particularly when his family 
were in the car with him when the MMI system failed.
Mr U said he brought the car to a franchised dealership for repairs but was told they couldnt 
fix the problem. Mr U said he complained to AFS in May 2021 and again in September 2021. 
Mr U said AFS confirmed this was a common problem with some of their models that they 
didnt have a solution for. Mr U said VWFS offered him £807 to resolve the complaint but he 
declined it as they couldnt assure him the car would be fixed.
Mr U said he wanted a full refund of the monthly repayments hes made for the car and 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
In September 2021 AFS provided their final response to Mr Us complaint. AFS upheld his 
complaint and said they offered Mr U a full rejection and refund of his deposit which Mr U 
declined. AFS said the dealer then offered Mr U £250 in recognition of his dissatisfaction 
which he also declined.
AFS confirmed that in recognition of the inconvenience caused, theyd offered Mr U a 15% 
reduction of his monthly repayments for a year, which amounted to £807, and a repair to the 
car when it became available.
Unhappy with AFS final response, Mr U brought his complaint to our service for 
investigation. In December 2021 AFS advised that a software update had likely taken place 
on Mr Us car to address the reported issues. Mr U confirmed the update had taken place, 
but that the issues still persisted. AFS confirmed that a further update was expected in April 
2022 which they believed would fix the problem. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Us complaint and gave their initial view that a rejection with £200 
compensation was fair. However, as Mr U didnt want to reject the car, and AFS advised of a 
potential fix through a software update, a second investigator who took over the case gave 
their view that AFS offer of a 15% refund of the monthly repayments made was fair in the 
circumstances.
In consideration of the offer, Mr U said he felt a 50% refund of his monthly repayments would 
be fair compensation in the circumstances. Unhappy with our investigators view, Mr U 
asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
In July 2022 Mr U confirmed in an email to our investigator that following a further software 
update that took place in April 2022, he hasnt experienced any further issues with the MMI 
system. 
My initial thoughts on Mr Us complaint has been shared with each party as my proposed 
resolution differed to what our investigator had recommended. Each party was invited to 
share their comments. AFS didnt respond. However, Mr U explained that he felt the 15% 
offer was low because he believed more than 50% of the cars driving activity was affected 
by the MMI system that wasnt working properly. He also reiterated that he decided against 
driving longer distances, because the driving experience was impaired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. AFS is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that AFS supplied Mr U with a brand-new car which was priced in excess 
of £40,000. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect 
there to be no issues with the cars quality and that it could be used free from any issues for 
a considerable period of time.
From the information provided Im satisfied there was a fault with the cars MMI system. This 
is apparent from Mr Us description of events, along with the vehicle history report provided 
by AFS, detailing the issues reported by Mr U and the attempted repairs carried out by the 
garage workshop. 
Mr U said he experienced the issues with the MMI system around a month after being 
supplied the car. AFS confirmed in their final response there was an outstanding software update required on Mr Us car. AFS have also upheld Mr Us complaint and offered to 
compensate him for the issues hes experienced, so I dont think either party disputes that 
the car was faulty or that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr U. 
Having considered the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr U, Ive 
considered whether AFS offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr U said he didnt want a rejection of the car because he wanted to continue to have use of 
it. Having initially wanted a full refund of his monthly repayments along with a repair of the 
issues, after further consideration Mr U said he felt a 50% refund of the monthly repayments 
hed already made would be a fair outcome, in recognition of the inconvenience caused to 
him and the impaired usage hes had of the car.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied with the offer made by AFS to refund 15% of the 
monthly repayments made by Mr U for the faulty MMI system. Theres no perfect science to 
calculating the percentage refund in this situation, however, in the circumstances I think the 
15% refund is a fair recognition for the failure of the MMI system. When Mr U reported the 
electrical issues, he advised that the car was still driveable. And Ive seen no evidence to 
say the mechanical performance of the car was affected by the MMI system failure.
However, I also think AFS should pay Mr U £200 compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience this situation has caused him. Considering this was a brand-new car that Mr 
U acquired and for a price that wasnt insignificant, I recognise this would have been a 
disappointing situation for Mr U to be in. Im persuaded its likely Mr Us intended experience 
would have been considerably impacted. Mr U said he felt terrified when the MMI system 
failed, particularly when his family were in the car with him and that it made him not want to 
drive the car as much as hed intended. 
Mr U has confirmed that since the most recent software update in April 2022, hes 
experienced no issues with the MMI system. So, to resolve this complaint, Ill be instructing 
AFS to refund to Mr U 15% of the monthly repayments he made up to April 2022, when the 
MMI system had been repaired. Ill also be instructing AFS to pay Mr U £200 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Audi Financial Services to:
Refund to Mr U 15% of all monthly repayments made by him from inception of the 
agreement up to April 2022 
Pay 8% yearly simple interest on the above refund calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr U £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part of 
my award, it should tell Mr U how much its taken off. It should also give Mr U a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman