DRN-4332720
The complaint
Mr H complains that Black Horse Limited unfairly applied a default to his account 
What happened
Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in April 2019. The agreement 
required 35 monthly payments of around £253 to be made followed by a balloon payment of 
£9,309. Mr H made the monthly repayments and then contacted Black Horse. He says he 
was told to cancel his direct debits and that someone would contact him about setting up a 
repayment plan. Mr H says he made a couple of payments online to reduce the outstanding 
debt and that a few months later a repayment plan was agreed. However, he then 
discovered that his account had been defaulted without him being told this would happen. 
Black Horse didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said it issued an arrears letter dated 
2 September 2022 which said that if the arrears werent paid it may send a default notice. It 
said that Mr H was informed on three calls in September 2022 that his credit file would be 
impacted due to the outstanding arrears on his account. It noted that Mr H said he was 
applying for finance externally and would make monthly payments but that this wasnt an 
agreed plan. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He 
said that Mr H had wanted to refinance his balloon payment, but this was declined. He said 
Mr H had been informed on several occasions of the impact not paying the balloon could 
have on his credit file.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he told Black Horse he wanted to 
settle the balloon payment with another agreement and while telephone appointments were 
agreed these didnt happen. In June 2022 a default notice was issued, and Mr H made 
several calls about this, and Black Horse agreed to remove the default due to the delays in 
its refinancing team contacting him. He said he then made several payments to lower the 
balance outstanding. After five months a new agreement was discussed and declined by 
Black Horse for reasons Mr H doesnt know and he said he would try to seek alternative 
finance elsewhere. While he received letters about the balloon payment, Mr H said he didnt 
receive a default notice. In October 2022, Mr H received a letter saying his case had been 
taken over by the recoveries team and it wanted to try to resolve the issue. Mr H said it was 
agreed he would settle the balloon payment at end November 2022 or as a second option 
over two payments in November and December 2022 and Mr H says there was no mention 
of a default. However, he then received an email from a credit reference agency saying a 
default notice had been issued. Mr H says that had the recoveries team and Black Horse 
been communicating it would have seen this was a mistake. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H entered into a 36 month hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in April 2019. He 
made the monthly payments due and in March 2022 contacted Black Horse about the final 
balloon payment. I can see that an appointment was made, and that Black Horse called 
Mr H in March, April and May 2022 but wasnt able to speak to him until 13 June 2022 when 
an appointment was made for a call the following day. Unfortunately this call didnt happen 
and a default notice was issued dated 13 June 2022.
Mr H raised a complaint about the calls not taking place at the required times and this was 
upheld. It was agreed that any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file for April, 
May and June 2022 would be removed. 
Following this Black Horse made further unsuccessful call attempts in June and July 2022. 
This shows that it was trying to discuss the situation on Mr Hs account with him. Mr H has 
explained that he discussed the possibility of a new agreement with Black Horse, but this 
wasnt accepted. On 26 July Black Horse spoke with Mr H and the call notes show that Mr H 
was provided with his options, and he said he would get finance from elsewhere to settle the 
agreement. 
As an alternative finance agreement hadnt been accepted, Mr H had no agreement in place 
and so it is reasonable that Black Horse would contact Mr H about the need to settle the 
outstanding balance. Black Horse said it issued an arrears notice to Mr H dated 2 
September 2022 that explained if payment wasnt made then a default notice might be sent. 
At this point, as Mr H had previously received a default notice in June 2022, I think he should 
have been aware of the implication of not making the payment required to settle his account. 
Three calls then took place between Mr H and Black Horse in September 2022. On these, 
Mr H explains that he is still looking for alternative finance and would continue to make 
monthly repayments while doing this. The advisers welcome Mr Hs monthly payments and 
explain this will reduce his outstanding balance but they also explain that his account is in 
arrears and that this could affect his credit file. Mr H notes the previous issues which meant 
adverse information was removed from his credit file, but it is confirmed that as that 
happened before the refinance was declined and Mr H was in arrears his credit file could still 
be affected. Given this I find that Black Horse made Mr H aware of the status of his account 
and that his credit file would be affected if the outstanding balance wasnt repaid. 
I understand that the default was applied in October 2022 and that Mr H discovered this from 
a credit reference agency rather than Black Horse. I can understand how upsetting this 
would have been. I also understand that Mr H feels he was being reasonable by still making 
monthly payments while looking for external finance. But, given the time that had passed 
since the balloon payment had fallen due, that no new agreement had been put in place and 
that Mr H had been given time to find alternative finance but hadnt done so, I do not find I 
can say Black Horse was wrong to take further action. And as Mr H was told of the impact 
not paying his arrears could have, I do not require Black Horse to make amendments to 
Mr Hs credit file. 
Mr H received a letter dated 5 October 2022. This letter was from the Legal Recoveries 
team, and it is explained it is sent on behalf of Black Horse. I note Mr Hs comments about 
receiving letters from this team and the actions not being co-ordinated, but the letters are 
clear that the actions are being taken on behalf of Black Horse. The letter dated 5 October 
2022, warns Mr H that court proceedings could be started if an adequate response isnt 
received. As Mr H still had a large balance outstanding, I do not find that Black Horse was 
wrong to start considering options for reclaiming this. I do not find this letter, or the 
subsequent letters mean the default shouldnt have been applied to Mr Hs credit file in 
October 2022.
In conclusion, for the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman