DRN-4435935
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC took money from his account without his 
authority.
Mr K wants Barclays to refund the money with interest.
What happened
In 2012, Barclays exercised its right to set-off £16,000 from Mr Ks Barclays current account 
against an outstanding credit card debt. After Mr K contacted Barclays in March 2012, it 
refunded half the payment.
In 2014, Barclays set-off a further £4,000 but then refunded the entire amount back to Mr K.
In 2020, Barclays carried out a review of its operating procedures and identified that it may 
not have contacted customers like Mr K before applying money from an account in credit to 
another account in debit.   As part of this process, it wrote to Mr K and paid him £75 
compensation.
Mr K later complained to Barclays to say that he thought Barclays should not have used the 
right to set-off as the credit card account had been migrated to Barclays from another lender. 
Barclays didnt agree that it had made a mistake as the set-off was carried out in line with its 
processes at the time. 
When our investigator first considered Mr Ks complaint, he thought it had been made out of 
time under the rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service. After further 
correspondence, our investigator changed his mind and Barclays agreed that we could 
consider Mr Ks complaint.
Having done so, our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint be upheld. In 
summary, our investigator thought Barclays had properly exercised its right to set-off in line 
with its terms and conditions. 
Mr K responded to say that Barclays didnt give any notice of the set-off and that the 
investigation outcome seemed to imply that it did give notice. 
Mr K didnt think Barclayss terms and conditions allowed it to set-off money where it had 
bought the debt from a third party. He thought this made it particularly important that 
Barclays should have given him advance notice before taking the money.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that I have summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and that I have 
done so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to take this 
approach but this does not mean that I have not considered everything that both parties 
have given to us.
I appreciate that Mr K does not think that Barclays terms and conditions allowed it to 
exercise its right to set-off in circumstances where it had bought the debt from a third party 
but I dont agree. Once Barclays bought the credit card account form the third party, it owned 
the account and any amount due was payable to Barclays. 
The terms of Mr Ks current account in 2012 entitled Barclays to use money in the account to 
reduce or repay an amount that Mr K owed on a credit card and it allowed Barclays to do so 
across its group of companies. Barclays has shown that Mr K owed money on the credit card 
account that it bought so I dont consider it acted unfairly when it set-off money in his current 
account against the credit card debt.
I appreciate Barclays didnt give Mr K advance warning of its intention to set-off. Mr K is 
unhappy with this and I can understand why. But it doesnt mean that I must require Barclays 
to refund money that it took in line with the terms of Mr Ks account at the time. 
Im satisfied that Barclays responded fairly when it agreed to return half the amount that it 
took. I also note that the terms of Mr Ks account at the time didnt require Barclays to 
provide advance notice of its intention to exercise its right to set-off. I also think that if Mr K 
had been negatively impacted by Barclays decision back in 2012, he would have 
complained much sooner than he did.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays apology and compensation payment went far enough to 
recognise any inconvenience caused to Mr K when it didnt contact him ahead of exercising 
its right to set-off. This means I dont require Barclays to refund any money or take further 
action in response to Mr Ks complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman