DRN-3876151
The complaint
In summary, Mr D has complained about the service and information he received from 
Santander UK Plc in respect of accounts he has with it.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr D contacted Santander about an account he wasnt familiar with. He phoned 
Santander on the number shown on his account statement. He said the call handlers he 
spoke to werent familiar with the account and told him to contact another company that I will 
refer to as E.
Unhappy with the service he received, Mr D complained to Santander. It said that the 
problems he encountered with his shareholder account werent down to any mistakes on its 
part. This was because E was responsible for any dividend payments and account closures. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds concerns. He asked Santander for information 
about Mr Ds accounts. In its response Santander explained that: 
The Santander shareholder accounts (SSA) were set up to provide Santander 
shareholders with an account that share dividends could be paid into. This could then 
be used to buy more shares. 
The linked dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) was terminated in 2015. Reinvestment 
of dividends would need to take place through a new dividend reinvestment plan 
provided by the other business. The notice of variation would also have informed that 
the interest rate was reducing to 0.01%. Santander went on to say that it was 
unfortunate Mr D had been bounced from Santander to E. 
It also said complaints about the SSA needed to be dealt with by Santander UK as 
the provider of the account. And the T&Cs for the product stated that the funds in the 
account could only be withdrawn on closure of the account. Mr D joined the new 
DRIP in 2015 and the last deposit into the account was in 2018
Our investigator then wrote to Mr D explaining why he didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong.
In response Mr D explained why he didnt agree with the investigators assessment. In 
summary he said:
The investigator had said E was responsible for the account but referred to terms and 
conditions for the account which was contradictory. 
After contacting E, he had been referred back to Santander. The terms and 
conditions state that to close the account he should contact Santander.
If the account wasnt administered by Santander, he asked why its phone number 
was on his statement.
The account he was complaining about was set up by Santander to receive dividend 
payments. The account had an attractive rate of interest when it was set up. A 
dividend reinvestment scheme was then set up by Santander. 
The account he was complaining about had money in it and was managed and 
controlled by Santander. 
He was incorrectly advised to contact E. He asked why Santander would hold the 
T&Cs for an account that it wasnt responsible for.
The T&Cs he had supplied refers to contacting Santander if the account was to be 
closed. 
The account was administered by Santander and the phone number on the 
statement should have had the correct number on it for the relevant team that dealt 
with those accounts. He remained unhappy that he had been given incorrect 
information when he called Santander.
He was unhappy with how it had dealt with his complaint in that he was directed to 
complain E. 
He didnt think relying on a letter sent seven years ago was good customer relations. 
He didnt think that his initial enquiry and subsequent complaint had been handled in 
an acceptable way. 
The case was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional decision on 9 December 2022, 
explaining why I was intending to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I asked for any responses to my 
provisional decision to be provided by 23 December 2022. Santander replied and said it had 
nothing further to add. It was prepared to pay the compensation I proposed. No response 
was received from Mr D. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr D called Santander to enquire about the account he had received a statement for, 
he was told that he had come through to the wrong department. That call appears to have 
ended prematurely, so Mr D phoned Santander again. 
In the subsequent call Mr D provided details of the account and asked if it could be on his 
online banking. He was told someone was going to talk to the digital team. The call handler 
said she thought it was a shareholder account and had the details on her system. She 
thought it was an investment thing and said she would contact the digital team. She spoke 
to a colleague who said that Mr D would need to speak to E. This information was passed on 
to Mr D.
Mr D also contacted E and was told that Santander was responsible for the Santander 
shareholder account.
Mr D contacted Santander again. He was told that they could only be closed and couldnt be 
added to his online banking and that no dividend payments had been made into the 
accounts since 2018. 
Im satisfied that when Mr D initially spoke to one of Santanders call handlers, he made it 
clear what account he was enquiring about. And the details of the accounts were confirmed 
by the call handler. Im also satisfied that there was confusion on the part of the call handler 
Mr D spoke to. I say this because its apparent from what was said in the call, that the call 
handler didnt understand the accounts Mr D held or how they operated. And this resulted in incorrect questions being asked of her colleagues and incorrect information being provided 
to the call handler. This resulted in Mr D incorrectly being referred to E.
In its response to the investigators request for information that Ive summarised above; Im 
satisfied that Santander accepts that it made a mistake as it said; 
it was unfortunate that Mr D was bounced from Santander to E. 
And Im surprised that given the information available to it, that Santander has taken the 
approach to Mr Ds complaint that it has. And as a result of the incorrect information 
Santander gave to Mr D and its response to his complaint; he has been caused some 
inconvenience. This has resulted in him being incorrectly directed to contact E, and him then 
having to go back to Santander. 
Mr D thinks that Santander shouldnt have put the contact phone number that it did, on the 
statement it sent Mr D. But I think it is a matter for Santander to decide what contact number 
it provides to customers such as Mr D. But Santander needs to make sure that a customer 
such as Mr D is provided with the correct information and directed to the right department 
when they contact Santander. And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it did that in 
Mr Ds case. 
I understand that Mr D is frustrated that he cant just transfer the money held in his accounts 
and that this can only be done by closing the accounts. The information Ive seen indicates 
that this is part of the T&Cs for the accounts. And given the nature of the accounts I dont 
think it is necessarily wrong for the account to be operated in that way. So, I dont think that 
Santander has done anything wrong by explaining to Mr D that this is what he needs to do in 
order to move the money remaining in the accounts to his current accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint about Santander 
UK Plc. And if Mr D accepts my decision, I direct it to pay him £150 for the inconvenience he 
has been caused by its shortcomings in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman