DRN-4107954
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C have complained about the service they received from Aviva Insurance 
Limited when making a claim under their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr C and Mrs C 
appealed. They felt the sum offered by Aviva of £100 was derisory for the service failings 
they had encountered. As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr C and Mrs C feel strongly about this matter and Im sorry to disappoint 
them. But having reviewed everything I agree with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator. 
Firstly though Im aware Im summarising the complaint and Ive done so using my own 
words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it 
isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
for these reasons:
Aviva authorised treatment for Mr C under his policy in July 2022. In October he 
advised that he was struggling to get booked in for surgery, he had understood that 
Aviva would make the appointment for him. An appointment was subsequently made 
with another consultant but it transpired that he wasnt surgical. Aviva hadnt been 
made aware of the change to his practice preference so I cant say it is to blame 
here. 
Aviva said that it was unable to confirm a surgical appointment with a specialist at Mr 
Cs choice of hospital. But in fact Mr C had expressed no preference as to which 
consultant treated him or at which hospital. He had made clear that he was happy to 
see any consultant anywhere in the country for expediency. I can see it would have 
been frustrating for them when a response to their complaint was framed in this way. 
Aviva has no control over the availability of consultants. It is most unfortunate that the 
first consultant suffered a bereavement, which impacted Mr Cs treatment. Ultimately 
Mr C proceeded to have treatment on the NHS, with which he was happy. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs C were frustrated by the lack of contact from Aviva and I 
understand why Mr and Mrs C didnt feel they received the service they were paying 
for. Calls and messages went unanswered. They had private insurance but 
eventually didnt use it on this occasion for the surgery that Mr C required. However I 
dont find that Aviva were responsible for any misunderstanding as to how the policy 
operated. This includes the operation of the excess on their policy. Neither do I find 
that the fact that the surgery wasnt carried out under the policy means that Mr C and 
Mrs C are entitled to a refund of the premiums they paid. The policy was in force and 
cover was available.
Aviva recognised that the service it provided could have been better and offered 
£100 by way of apology for the distress and inconvenience that the matter had 
caused. I find that this was reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
find this is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr C and Mrs C £100 if it hasnt 
done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman