DRN-3994389
The complaint
Mr F complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Novuna) wrongly allowed him to borrow money he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr F entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Novuna, arranged 
through a retailer. The purpose of the finance was to fund the purchase of home electronics. 
The total amount payable under the agreement was £3,040.32, to be repaid by 48 monthly 
payments of £63.34. Payments were deferred until November 2020, and the agreement 
gave Mr F the option to avoid interest by repaying in full before the first payment fell due.
Mr F signed to confirm his understanding of the agreement. In doing so, he also made a 
declaration as to the accuracy of the information he gave in support of the finance 
application. That information, as detailed on the loan agreement, stated that he was a home 
owner with a mortgage, was employed with a gross income in excess of £50,000, and that 
hed been with his employer for more than four years.
As things turned out, Mr F didnt pay off the loan by November 2020, and when the monthly 
payments became due he told Novuna he needed more time as he was struggling to meet 
his financial commitments. Mr F explained to Novuna that his employment and earning 
ability was seriously affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Novuna deferred the first payment and subsequently agreed a 3-month payment holiday. But 
when that ended Mr F found himself using savings to meet the payments. Eventually he 
stopped making payments and the account developed arrears.
In April 2022 Mr F complained to Novuna, saying that it hadnt undertaken proper checks on 
his ability to afford the credit. He said that if Novuna had done so, it would have established 
that his income was significantly less than stated, and that his other expenditure and 
commitments meant the loan was unaffordable to him. He offered to make reduced 
payments of £25-30 per month while Novuna investigated his complaint.
Novuna noted Mr Fs stated financial difficulties and provided details of its specialist support 
team to discuss his payment proposals. It also suggested third party debt assistance 
charities Mr F could use to help him manage his financial commitments and other creditors.
However, Novuna didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint about its original lending decision. It said it 
undertook checks on Mr Fs credit history and existing credit balances, along with an 
assessment of his ability to afford the payments based on his stated income, a 50% share of 
the monthly mortgage commitment, and using a national average of general expenditure. 
Based on this, Novuna considered that it undertook appropriate affordability checks before 
agreeing to lend. Mr F didnt agree with Novunas response and referred his concerns to us.
Our investigator was satisfied that Novuna undertook reasonable and proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that Mr F would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. She didnt 
consider the level of borrowing applied for necessitated an in-depth review of Mr Fs financial 
position. And she felt it was reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Fs case for Novuna to 
accept what he had told it about his income and likely future earnings by the time the loan 
payments became due. Overall, the investigator wasnt persuaded that Novuna had failed to 
make a fair lending decision.
Mr F hasnt accepted the investigators conclusions and has sought this review. He has 
objected to the basis on which she has made some of her findings. He thinks the investigator 
failed to have proper regard for the wording of regulations set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).
Mr F says that these regulations make requirements around creditworthiness checks that 
ought to have prompted Novuna to verify not only what hed told it about his income, but also 
in respect of his expenditure. Hes questioned Novunas decision to use an estimation of his 
costs, particularly the assumption that he was paying only half the mortgage.
Mr F disputes that it is responsible to take into account future income when making a lending 
decision. And he feels Novuna didnt give enough assistance in light of his financial difficulty, 
saying it ignored his request for a second payment holiday. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive summarised here Mr Fs response to the investigators assessment, I want to 
reassure him that Ive read that response in full. Having done so, while I understand his 
strength of feeling, there are some points that I think its worth clarifying.
As our investigator noted, Novuna had certain regulatory obligations it needed to comply 
with in assessing Mr Fs creditworthiness. Those obligations are set out in part 5.2A of the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that forms part of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook. I appreciate both the investigator and Mr F have referenced part 5.2 in 
their correspondence. However, this part was no longer in effect by the time he applied for 
the loan in November 2019. I accept this might be the root cause of at least some of the 
reasons Mr F has disagreed with the investigators reading of the regulations.
In the FCA Handbook R denotes a rule and G denotes guidance. Mr Fs loan meets the 
definition of a regulated credit agreement as set out in the relevant legislation1 CONC 
5.2A.4(1)R says that before entering into a regulated credit agreement, a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer and, under 
CONC 5.2A.5(2)R, have had proper regard to the outcome of that assessment in respect of 
affordability risk.
CONC 5.2A.7R says
a firm must base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information:
(1) of which it is aware at the time the creditworthiness assessment is carried out;
(2) obtained, where appropriate, from the customer, and where necessary from a 
credit reference agency, and
the information must enable the firm to carry out a reasonable creditworthiness 
assessment.
1 The relevant legislation here is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001CONC 5.2A.20R deals with the scope, extent and proportionality of the creditworthiness 
assessment. It says:
(1) The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment, and the steps that 
the firm must take to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a reasonable one, 
based on sufficient information, are dependent upon, and proportionate to, the individual 
circumstances of each case.
(2) The firm must consider:
(a) the types of information to use in the creditworthiness assessment;
(b) the content and level of detail of the information to use;
(c) whether the information in the firms possession is sufficient;
(d) whether and to what extent to obtain additional information from the customer;
(e) whether and to what extent to obtain information from a credit reference agency;
(f) any other sources of information to use;
(g) whether and to what extent to verify the accuracy of the information that is used;
(h) the degree of evaluation and analysis of the information that is used; and
(i) the steps to take to determine or estimate the customers income or non-
discretionary expenditure (where such a determination or estimate is required),
having regard to the factors listed in (3) where applicable to the agreement.
(3) The factors to which the firm must have regard when complying with (2) and deciding 
what steps are needed to make the creditworthiness assessment a reasonable one 
include each of the following where applicable to the agreement:
(a) the type of credit;
(b) the amount of the credit or, where applicable, the credit limit;
(c) the duration (or likely duration) of the credit;
(d) the frequency of the repayments;
(e) the amounts of the repayments;
(f) the total amount payable;
(g) the total charge for credit;
(h) the annual percentage rate of charge;
(i) whether the rate of interest or any other charge (except any charge for non-
compliance with the agreement or any charge payable by the customer under a hire-
purchase agreement in respect of an exercise of an option to purchase the goods to 
which the agreement relates) is fixed or variable;
(j) any other costs which will or may be payable by or on behalf of the customer in 
connection with the agreement, including any charge for non-compliance with the 
agreement but excluding any charge payable by the customer under a hire-purchase 
agreement in respect of an exercise of an option to purchase the goods to which the 
agreement relates; and
(k) any other potential adverse consequences for the customer arising under the 
agreement from a failure to make a repayment by the due date.
In summary, in undertaking a creditworthiness assessment the lender needs to take steps to 
make a reasonable assessment, based on sufficient information, of the customers 
propensity and ability to make the payments under the credit agreement. That includes 
assessing whether the repayments will have a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation over the term of the agreement. The assessment doesnt need to be 
exhaustive, but it does have to be proportionate to the individual circumstances in each 
case.
Bearing these obligations in mind Ive reviewed the factors Novuna says it took into account 
when deciding to lend to Mr F.Having done so, Im satisfied Novuna made a reasonable assessment of the risk Mr F 
wouldnt make repayments on time. It has explained the checks it performed and the 
information it established in relation to Mr Fs credit history and current level of credit debt. I 
dont think that information ought to have led Novuna to conclude it shouldnt lend to Mr F.
But as Ive observed, assessing the risk of whether someone will make repayments by the 
due date isnt the only part of a creditworthiness check. There is the affordability risk to take 
into account; that is, the risk to the customer that they will be unable to make repayments. In 
this respect, Novuna relied on what Mr F told it about his employment status and income and 
made certain assumptions about his outgoings.
CONC 5.2A.15R deals with the way a firm should assess a customers income and 
expenditure. It says (among other things) that a firm must take reasonable steps to 
determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers income. and that 
the firm must take account of the customers income it has determined or estimated
I should note at this point that guidance in CONC 5.2A.16(3)G includes that:
For the purpose of considering the customers income under CONC 5.2A.15R, it is not 
generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by the 
customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party 
or by the customer).
That suggests the declaration Novuna accepted from Mr F relating to his stated income may 
not in itself be sufficient. And it doesnt appear supporting information was obtained via the 
credit reference checks Novuna did undertake. Given Novuna used the income figure it did, I 
can only reasonably conclude that it relied solely on what Mr F told it about his income.
While the guidance says thats not generally sufficient, it leaves open the possibility that in 
some situations a statement of current income might be enough. Ive thought about that in 
the context of other guidance in CONC 5.2A.16G that suggests in some circumstances it can 
be reasonable to estimate a customers income, or indeed to take into account an expected 
future increase in income.
I have little doubt, from what Mr F has described, that he anticipated his earnings to be at or 
around the level he indicated when he made his application, notwithstanding the amounts he 
was at that time drawing as an income. The alternative would be that Mr F knowingly 
provided a significantly inflated figure as his current income. If that were the case, he could 
not reasonably expect to be compensated for the lenders failure to establish what he knew 
to be the true position. Mr F, as director of his own business, considered it reasonable to 
expect his income to be in excess of £50,000. I see no obvious reason for Novuna to have 
concluded otherwise.
With this in mind, and taking into account the factors set out in CONC 5.2A.20R, I find that 
the information obtained by Novuna in respect of Mr Fs income was not substantiated by 
independent verification, but that this does not in itself make Novunas assessment 
unreasonable.
When considering the matter of affordability, in addition to income there is also the question 
of expenditure. Even if Novuna accepted Mr Fs income at the stated level, it needed to 
make a reasonable assessment of his outgoings. That assessment needed to take into 
account more than the level of existing credit he carried. CONC 5.2A.17R requires that a 
firm must take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary expenditure and must take account of that 
determination or estimate in its assessment.
CONC 5.2A.19 indicates that the use of statistical data is acceptable in pursuit of this aim, 
unless the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect the statistical data is unlikely to 
be reasonably representative of the customers situation. Im aware Mr F has pointed to the 
facts of his case as demonstrating that it was inappropriate for Novuna to use statistical 
data. But Ive no reason to conclude that, at the time it made its lending decision, Novuna 
knew or had reasonable cause to suspect the statistical data would be unrepresentative of 
Mr Fs situation. So I dont find it was unreasonable of Novuna to use this method in its 
assessment of Mr Fs expenditure, even if other methods were available to it.
That said, I dont consider Novuna was entitled only to use 50% of the monthly mortgage 
commitment in its assessment of Mr Fs outgoings. CONC 5.2A.18G says that Where there 
is a reasonable expectation that the customer will have responsibility to pay only a share or 
a part of a payment required pursuant to a contractual or statutory obligation then the firm 
may, in appropriate cases, take this into account. I havent seen anything to suggest this 
was a reasonable expectation on Novunas part. Mr F has said that while the mortgage loan 
is held jointly with his wife, she has limited personal income and he is responsible for the full 
mortgage payments. I find Novunas assessment didnt meet a reasonable standard in this 
respect.
Would that have made a significant difference to its decision to lend to Mr F? I cant see that 
it would. The additional monthly commitment in relation to the mortgage would have been in 
the region of another £440. But based on the rest of the assessment Novuna undertook, 
there was still sufficient available disposable income to indicate the loan payments of £63.34 
would be able to be met without a significant adverse impact on Mr Fs financial situation 
over the term of the agreement. 
Overall then, while I find there were some shortcomings in Novunas creditworthiness 
assessment, for the reasons Ive set out Im not persuaded that made the lending decision 
irresponsible, or that those shortcomings warrant Novuna compensating Mr F.
I recognise that the pandemic had a significant impact on Mr Fs anticipated income and 
dont doubt what he says about the hardship hes experienced. I can see that Novuna has 
taken steps to respond to Mr Fs situation. It allowed him to extend the deferred payment 
period beyond the initial 12 months. And its pointed him towards third parties, and its own 
specialist team, to see what can be done to help manage the difficult situation hes found 
himself in. I consider these to be appropriate steps that demonstrate Novuna has had regard 
for its obligations under CONC 7.3.
A firm isnt acting unreasonably by not offering additional payment holidays when the 
customer asks it to do so. And it does strike me that Novuna has told Mr F it is willing to look 
at his financial position to see what can be done to negotiate an affordable plan to deal with 
his loan commitment. I think thats fair, and would encourage Mr F to enter into negotiations 
with Novuna in this respect, to see what forbearance measures might be made available in 
line with CONC7.3.5G guidance. 
My final decision
I hope Mr F is able to come to a suitable arrangement with his lender (and other creditors) 
that will ease the pressure hes been under. But for the reasons Ive set out here, I cant 
uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman