DRN-2817374
The complaint
Mr W has complained that when he applied for a Metal account in July 2019, N26 Bank
GmbH (N26) failed to provide him with the terms and conditions for the insurance products
included with his account.
Mr W says this later led to him suffering an uninsured loss.
  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 7 July 2021, in which I explained why I was minded to 
uphold this complaint. I have included an extract of my provisional decision below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
Having reviewed everything that both parties have provided, I am currently minded to uphold 
this complaint. I will explain why.
As the seller of a packaged account, N26 was essentially acting as an insurance 
intermediary, on behalf of the insurer(s) of the respective insurance products that were 
included as benefits of the Metal account.
This meant that N26 was required to provide Mr W with the policy terms during the sales 
process. This was so Mr W could make an informed decision about whether the insurance 
products met his needs.
Unfortunately, N26 has been unable to provide a screenshot of what exactly Mr W did see
when he applied for the Metal account. But it has provided screenshots of what it says he
was likely to have seen. Overall, I see no reason why the screenshots that N26 has provided
were likely to have been significantly different to what Mr W did see when applying for the
account.
Having looked through the screenshots, I can see that part of the application process did 
summarise the benefits of the account. For example, the screenshots show that Mr W would 
have seen that the account offered things like fee-free withdrawals abroad and free 
payments worldwide. It also explained that the account included insurance cover for car 
rental, mobile phones and travel. And Mr W does seem to have been aware of the summary 
of cover. For example hes said he was aware that it included 60 days of purchase protection 
insurance for items purchased with the card, up to a value of £2,500. But I cant see that 
these summaries included any information about what exactly was and wasnt covered. So I 
dont think these benefit summaries contained enough information to have met Mr Ws 
information needs.
In the screenshots of the application process, it does look as though Mr W was required to 
tick a box to say hed read the banking and insurance terms and conditions. I presume that 
Mr W was only able to proceed with the application once hed ticked these boxes. But, I dont 
think requiring Mr W to tick a box is enough to say that N26 did what it was required to do, in 
terms of providing Mr W with the policy terms. I say this because it appears that Mr W was 
able to tick the box without actually seeing the documents. And even if he had to open them 
to proceed, once hed ticked the box, I cant see that he was then able to go back to that 
screen to access the insurance terms again.
In addition to the summary of account features and the tick box, N26 says that once Mr Ws 
application was submitted, he wouldve automatically been sent an email containing the 
insurance terms and conditions. Unfortunately, N26 is unable to provide a copy of the actual 
email that it says it sent to Mr W. But it has provided a sample of the email that it says 
shouldve been sent to Mr W. And the sample document does suggest that the insurance 
terms and conditions wouldve been included in the email sent to Mr W.
However, Mr W has provided our service with a screenshot of his email inbox that contains 
the emails he sent to, and received from, N26 and the insurer. He has also provided our 
service with a copy of the emails he received from N26 around the time he applied for the 
account.
Looking through these emails, I can see that on 8 July 2019 N26 sent Mr W an email 
thanking him for signing up and asked for him to confirm his email address. Attached to this 
email were N26s banking terms and conditions and an account price list. But there were no 
insurance documents attached.
N26 sent Mr W two other emails on 8 July 2019. One confirmed that Mr Ws phone was 
paired to his account, and another confirmed that a debit card will be sent to him  but again 
neither of these emails contained insurance documents. And looking at all the other emails 
that Mr W received from N26, I cant see that he received a copy of the insurance terms and 
conditions until 16 January 2020  which was well after hed applied for the account and also 
after hed submitted his insurance claim.
Ive considered the possibility that N26 sent Mr W an email that contained the terms and
conditions and this was caught by a spam filter or accidentally deleted. But I dont think that
was likely as Mr W was clearly receiving (and acting on) emails from N26 and still has many
emails stored in his inbox. So I find this scenario unlikely in the circumstances.
I note that Mr W says he asked for a copy of the terms and conditions twice and still didnt 
receive them. Whereas N26 says Mr W contacted it three times, but none of those occasions 
were about insurance. N26 said that if Mr W had not received them, it wouldve expected 
him to have asked for a copy.
But having looked at the emails in question (dated 30 July 2019), I can see that Mr W did 
ask for a copy of the insurance terms and conditions. But these emails were actually sent to
the insurer rather than N26. And, as outlined above, I am not considering whether the 
insurer did anything wrong in this case. But it does appear from the responses that Mr W has
provided, that the insurer never sent him a full copy of the terms and conditions either. It had
instead, for some reason, paraphrased aspects of the policy document  albeit parts that did
not include the purchase protection aspects of cover.
However, the fact that Mr W proactively asked twice for a copy of the insurance terms and 
conditions after hed applied for the Metal account (and months before the claim) in my view 
only adds weight to his point. That is, that hed never actually received them during (or 
shortly after) the sale of the account.So, having considered everything that N26 and Mr W have been able to provide, I am 
currently of the view that, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, N26 failed to do 
what it was required to do. That is, to provide Mr W with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the insurance products, when he applied for the Metal account.
Finally, N26 has said that the terms and conditions were also available both on the app and 
on its website, under the Legal Documents link. But I dont think its reasonable to put the 
responsibility onto Mr W to find information that N26 shouldve (but didnt) sent him. And Mr 
W said he did try looking for the information on the app and website. But says he could only 
find the summaries of cover and no detail about what was and wasnt covered. And I see 
little reason to doubt this, because he even said in his email on 30 July 2019 that hed tried 
looking for this information in the app and website and couldnt find it anywhere.
Did Mr W suffer any detriment as a result of the shortcoming?
So as far as I can see, when Mr W purchased the laptop, bag and watch he did so in the 
knowledge that items purchased with his Metal card would be covered for 60 days, up to 
£2,500. But I dont think that he was aware that watches were specifically excluded. And I 
think this was because N26 had failed to provide Mr W with the policy terms and conditions 
when it sold him the account.
Mr W says that, had he been given the insurance terms and conditions, he wouldve 
checked them. And upon seeing that watches were specifically excluded, he says he 
wouldve arranged for his watch to be insured with another provider.
Overall, I am persuaded that what Mr W says he wouldve done, had things gone as they 
shouldve, seems plausible and likely in the circumstances.
I say this because firstly, the watch cost £1,255. So I find Mr Ws comments that he wouldve
got it insured elsewhere had he known it wasnt covered under the N26 cover seems likely,
given that it was a high value item. Furthermore, the importance of understanding what 
exactly he was covered for under the N26 policies can clearly be seen in his second email to 
the insurer, sent on 31 July 2019. In that email, Mr W said: 
Thats helpful but I still dont know what my cover is for
5) Purchase Protection
It's also not clear to me what paying a qualifying expense or eligible good means in relation
to each part of the insurance. Eg I'm paying for a holiday this week. What is my coverage for 
that holiday if I buy the flights and accommodation with my [other bank] account instead of 
my N26 account?
I'm a bit surprised how little information is provided with the policy. What good is having 
insurance if I don't know what it covers and how it works?
Therefore, I think that Mr W suffered a financial loss as a result of N26s shortcomings during 
the sale of the Metal account.
Putting matters right
Had things gone as they shouldve, I think its likely that Mr W wouldve obtained insurance
elsewhere for the watch. So I currently think N26 should do the following, to put matters
right:
Pay an amount that is equivalent to the amount Mr W paid for the watch (Mr W willneed to provide proof of purchase);
Less £60 (which represents an approximation of what Mr W wouldve paid to insure
his watch elsewhere); and
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount owed, calculated from the date of claim to
date of settlement.
Both Mr W and N26 responded to my provisional decision. N26 did not agree with my 
findings, but did offer to pay Mr W 50% of the value of the watch, as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr W did not accept N26s offer. But he did say that he would be willing to accept to settle 
this complaint if N26 donated £3,750 to a charity of his choice and N26 issued him with a 
letter of apology from its CEO. N26 wasnt willing to do this. 
As both parties were unable to agree on a proposed settlement to this complaint, the 
complaint has been passed back to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case. And having reconsidered everything, I still 
remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld. And I still think the redress that I set 
out in my provisional decision is a fair way to resolve this complaint. I will explain why.
In response to my provisional decision N26 raised a number of points, that for the sake of 
brevity, I wont list them verbatim in this decision. However, I have considered all points 
raised and will address some of them here.
N26 says the absence of an email appearing in the screenshot of Mr Ws inbox is not 
indicative that an email was not sent - as Mr W mayve deleted it to support his narrative. 
I have considered this scenario and touched on it briefly in my provisional decision. And of 
course, I understand its possible that mayve happened. But I have to consider what I think 
is most likely to have happened in the circumstances of this case. And based on what I have 
seen, I dont think that is the most likely scenario. Mr W has shown he has retained many 
emails from N26 and the insurer, including ones of relatively little ongoing importance e.g. an 
email confirming his phone was paired with his account, and another saying a debit card will 
be sent to him. So I find it unlikely that he did receive the insurance terms and conditions but 
then happened to delete that one email, but kept the rest. I also think the fact he went on to 
ask for a copy of the insurance terms and conditions twice (albeit from the insurer) again 
makes me think the most likely scenario here is that, for whatever reason, he just never 
received them from N26 when he took out the Metal account.
N26 also explained that Mr W opened a standard N26 account on 8 July 2019 and had 
actually applied to upgrade his account to the fee-paying Metal account (which included the 
above mentioned insurance products) on 17 July 2019. N26 says that Mr W has provided 
misleading information about the sale of the Metal account, as his emails suggest that the 
Metal account was sold on 8 July rather than 17 July. 
In response to this point, Id like to explain that our service specifically asked Mr W to 
provide a copy of the N26 email from 8 July 2019. The reason for this is because, until both 
parties responded to the provisional decision, it had never actually been made clear by 
either party that the sale of the metal account took place on 17 July 2019 and not the 8 July 
2019. Before then, both parties had generally only referred to the Metal account being sold in July 2019, and so wed asked for a copy of the email from 8 July to ensure we had all the 
key evidence from Mr W. I should add at this point, that when looking through Mr Ws 
contact with our service, I dont think he had necessarily been misleading. And if anything, I 
think N26 couldve done a better job in making the date of sale clear when it submitted its file 
on this complaint.  
I understand that, as the sale of the Metal account was essentially just an upgrade to an 
existing account, N26 says Mr W wouldve only needed to agree to the terms and conditions 
to complete the process. And as set out in my provisional decision, I think that Mr W was 
presented with a tick box to say hed read the insurance terms and conditions before 
agreeing to the Metal account. However, I understand he was able to proceed without 
actually having to read them. And I still think, for the reasons already outlined in my 
provisional decision, that this was not enough to say that N26 had provided Mr W with the 
insurance terms and conditions, as it was required to do. I also note that N26 says that the 
insurance terms and conditions were sent to Mr W and says that they shouldve been sent 
as part of an automated process. But the fact remains N26 has not actually provided 
evidence to show that they actually were sent to Mr W, and just because they shouldve 
been sent, does not necessarily mean that they were.
N26 says that Mr W says he had no idea what cover he had, but also says had he known 
what the cover was, he wouldve sought alternative cover. N26 says this is contradictory. But 
I dont think it is. Mr W confirmed he knew the headline cover i.e. up to £2,500 for items 
purchased with his Metal card, for up to 60 days from the date of purchase. And had relied 
on that cover, without realising that there was a specific exclusion for watches. N26 also 
points out that Mr W contacted the insurer for the terms and conditions, but never N26 
directly, until February 2020, at which point he was provided them within minutes. But Mr W 
says that he used the email address provided by N26 to ask about the insurance, and I see 
no reason to doubt this, because I cant see where else he wouldve got the email address 
from other than through N26s app or website. So I think its unfair to say Mr W had failed to 
ask for this information from N26, when Mr W was clearly using the contact details that N26 
had provided for queries relating to the Metal account insurance products.
N26 has said that it was not logical or responsible for Mr W to have used the lack of 
information about the insurance cover as a license to assume that his purchase protection 
cover was without limits or exclusions. However I am not persuaded by N26s argument on 
this point. From what I have seen N26 was required to give Mr W the insurance terms in 
good time from the sale of the Metal account. And as far as I can see, N26 failed to do that 
on this occasion. Mr W has said that he was aware of the general level of cover it provided. 
And from my experience, it is fairly common for consumers to purchase and rely on 
insurance cover, without necessarily knowing entirely all the ins and outs of the policy. And 
in this case, Mr W has shown that he did try and establish what the specific terms and 
conditions were, but unfortunately never received them.
I do appreciate that after the sale of the Metal account, Mr W did contact the insurer, rather 
than N26, to get a copy of the insurance terms and conditions. And it does appear as though 
the insurer failed to provide him with a full copy, and instead it appears to have paraphrased 
aspects of cover. But that does not negate the fact that N26 was obliged to provide a copy of 
them to Mr W in the first place. And from what I have seen, I dont think that happened. And 
as a result of that, I think that Mr W has lost out financially.
So taking everything into account, I still think it is reasonable to hold N26 responsible for the 
financial loss that Mr W incurred.
Putting things rightTherefore, had things gone as they shouldve, I think its likely that Mr W wouldve obtained 
insurance elsewhere for the watch that he purchased. So I think N26 should do the following, 
to put matters right:
Pay an amount that is equivalent to the amount Mr W paid for the watch (Mr W will
need to provide proof of purchase);
Less £60 (which represents an approximation of what Mr W wouldve paid to insure
his watch elsewhere); and
Pay 8% simple annual interest on the amount owed to Mr W, calculated from the 
date of claim to the date of settlement.
  
My final decision
Because of the reasons outlined above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this 
complaint and require N26 Bank GmbH to do what I have set out above, to put matters right.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman