DRN-3846990
The complaint
R, a partnership complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) sent sensitive information to 
an unauthorised third party.
R is represented by its partners.
What happened
R complained to BOI after finding out that bank statements for its business account had 
been enclosed in correspondence sent to a third party. BOI upheld the complaint, 
apologising for its error and later paying R £150 compensation.
R feels the resolution is unfair and wants additional compensation, so it referred the 
complaint to this service. R says the statements were sent to a rival business and meant the 
third party had access to sensitive information  including client information, transaction 
details and the sources of Rs funding.
One of our investigators recommended that BOI increase its compensation to £300. BOI 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share the view that increasing the compensation award to £300 is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint  Ill explain why.
BOI already accepts that it made an error. The bank says it has taken steps to avoid 
something like this happening again and has contacted the relevant third party. BOI has also 
apologised, so Im satisfied that it has recognised what it has done wrong and has taken 
steps to put things right.
All that remains for me to consider is whether the compensation BOI has paid is fair. 
Although its positive to see that BOI recognised that compensation is appropriate here, I 
dont think the £150 compensation the bank has paid R goes far enough in putting things 
right.
R says BOI disclosed sensitive client information to a rival firm, creating the potential for the 
third party to identify clients, income and funding information and the type of work R is 
involved in. I havent seen anything that suggests R experienced a financial loss or that any 
of this information was used in the way R points out. But Rs partners were both left 
distressed by the prospect of this. So I think that increasing the compensation award to £300 
is a fair way for BOI to make up for the distress it caused both partners. 
Despite what BOI says, R seems to be a partnership. So this service wouldnt treat it as a 
separate legal entity and my powers allow me to treat the partners as individuals when 
considering any award I make. And as I explained, £300 is a reasonable award for the 
distress experienced by both partners.
Putting things right
BOI caused Rs partners unnecessary distress and inconvenience when it made an error by 
sending Rs bank statements to a third party. BOI has already paid R £150 compensation. In 
my opinion, to put things right, BOI should pay R an additional £150 compensation.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. If R accepts my final decision, Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should 
settle the complaint in line with what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman