DRN-4384468
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complains about how their insurer, One Insurance Limited (One), handled a 
claim under their motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to One in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In July 2022, Mrs T and Mr T had an accident in which their vehicle was hit from behind by a 
motorcycle. Due to the injuries sustained by the third party, Mrs T and Mr T werent able to 
obtain their insurance details. They contacted One to tell them about the accident and lodge 
a claim. One appointed an engineer to inspect the vehicle and assess the damage. Based 
on their inspection, the engineer concluded the vehicle was a total loss.
One subsequently made a settlement to the finance provider for the outstanding finance on 
the vehicle. The balance of the settlement, which was based on the Pre Accident Value 
(PAV) of the vehicle, was then paid to Mrs T and Mr T.
One said they received confirmation from the third party insurer that the third party (the 
motorcycle rider) didnt have insurance cover (an active policy) at the time of the accident. 
So, the claim would have to be made through the Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB) to recover 
the cost of the claim. This also meant the claim would have to be made in the first instance 
through Mrs T and Mr Ts policy (and then through to the MIB). As such, Mrs T and Mr T had 
to pay the excess under their policy (£550) which in turn One would seek to recover through 
the MIB. The excess was deducted from the settlement value.
However, Mrs T and Mr T said they were told  by the third party insurer through the MIB 
and then the police - the third party did have insurance cover at the time of the accident. So, 
they wanted the excess refunded. As they were not planning to replace the vehicle, they also 
wanted a refund of the balance of premiums theyd paid under the policy.
Unhappy at the time being taken by One to consider the issue of refunding the excess 
payment and balance of premiums, given theyd provided evidence from the MIB and police 
the third party was insured, Mrs T and Mr T complained to One.
One didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, One noted the circumstances of the 
accident and that as theyd been told the third party didnt have insurance cover at the time 
of the accident, theyd have to assess the claim under Mrs T and Mr Ts policy in the first 
instance, then seek to recover the claim costs through the MIB. One apologised for the 
stress Mrs T and Mr T had suffered but didnt think theyd acted incorrectly. 
Mrs T and Mr T then complained to this Service. Theyd told One the motorcycle rider did 
have valid insurance, but they hadnt received the £550 excess deducted from their claim 
settlement. Theyd asked for a refund on their policy premium as their vehicle wasnt being 
replaced, but One had told them as there wasnt a third party insurer against which to 
reclaim the costs of the claim, it would have to be made against Mrs T and Mr Ts policy. 
They wanted One to refund the £550 excess and refund the remainder of their premium. 
They also wanted an acknowledgment of the stress theyd suffered from the incident and 
how One had handled the claim.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint, concluding One didnt need to take any 
action. On the issue of refunding Mrs T and Mr T the excess deducted under the policy and 
the balance of premiums, the investigator thought this depended on whether One could 
recover the costs from the third party insurer. While Mrs T and Mr T had provided evidence 
from the police and MIB the third party was insured, One had provided evidence the third 
party insurer told them there was no active policy at the time of the accident and so couldnt 
accept a claim. So, One had acted fairly by pursuing the claim through the MIB. But the claim 
was still open, and should they be able to recover the costs of the claim, they would consider 
refunding Mrs T and Mr T any costs due back to them under the terms of the policy.
Mrs T and Mr T challenged the investigators initial view, referring to the information theyd 
received at the time of the accident from the police indicating the third party was insured.  
They contacted One and were told One used the wrong registration for the motorcycle that 
collided with their vehicle. So, One would reopen the claim and pursue matters. 
Given the new information, our investigator issued a second view upholding the complaint, 
concluding One hadnt acted fairly. Mrs T and Mr T provided evidence to One in October 
2022 indicating the third party was insured, including the correct registration of the 
motorcycle. But One maintained the third party wasnt insured. However, One subsequently 
accepted it had used an incorrect registration number, which is why theyd been told the third 
party wasnt insured. Acknowledging its error, One offered £300 compensation to Mrs T and 
Mr T  but they didnt think it adequately reflected the inconvenience theyd suffered. 
One told Mrs T and Mr T in September 2022 the third party didnt have insurance, the point 
at which the error occurred. But it wasnt until July 2023 that One discovered the error theyd 
made (only after further challenge from Mrs T and Mr T. So, there was a ten-month delay in 
pursuing the claim with the third party insurer, meaning a potential consequent delay in Mrs T 
and Mr T having their claim resolved (and receiving any refunds of costs and/or premium that 
might be due under the policy). Taking these factors into account, our investigator thought 
One should pay Mrs T and Mr T £450 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
As One didnt respond to our investigators second view, the complaint has been passed to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether One has acted fairly towards Mrs T and Mr T.
Looking at what happened and the information and evidence available, the key issue in this 
complaint is the time taken in assessing the claim and establishing the third party had 
insurance cover at the time of the accident. I recognise Mrs T and Mr T originally complained 
about the delay in  as they see it  being refunded the policy excess and balance of 
premiums. However, until the claim is finally settled, including the question of whether One 
are able to recover the claim costs from (as it now turns out) the third party insurer, this 
aspect cannot be resolved. So, this decision doesnt cover this aspect.
Coming back to the issue of the delays from One saying they were told the third party didnt 
have insurance, before accepting theyd made a mistake with the registration number of the 
motorcycle. From the sequence of events set out above, the evidence indicates Mrs T and Mr T made One aware of what theyve been told by the police (the third party insurer and the 
MIB) as early as October 2022, including the correct registration of the motorcycle. While 
One were told the third party wasnt insured, this was because they used the wrong 
registration. While I recognise mistakes can be made, it isnt clear why the mistake wasnt 
identified much earlier than it subsequently was. 
Taking these points together, Ive concluded there was a significant, avoidable delay in One 
accepting the third party was insured and then pursuing recovery of costs under the claim 
(notwithstanding what I understand is the third party insurer disputing liability). As opposed 
to pursuing costs through the MIB. 
I think this delay would have meant substantial distress and inconvenience to Mrs T and Mr 
T, particularly given their having to raise the issues with One and  from what Ive seen  
challenging them and leading to One accepting theyd made a mistake. So, Ive concluded 
One havent acted fairly or reasonably.
Looking at the circumstances of the case and the guidelines we operate to as a service, then 
Ive concluded £450 in compensation for inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint. 
I require One Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs T and Mr T £450 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
One Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mrs T and Mr T accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman