DRN-1653660
The complaint
Ms V is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
her buildings and contents insurance policy. She has tried to make claims on her policy and 
realised that she hasn't been insured.
What happened
Ms V received a renewal quote from Triton to renew her buildings and contents insurance 
policy in August 2019. As she had been a customer of Triton for several years, Triton 
confirmed to Ms V that her policy was renewed, and a payment could be made later.
Ms V paid Triton in full by bank transfer in mid-September 2019. The amount paid was 
£653.37.
In November 2019 Ms V noticed that her roof had started leaking, leading to some internal 
ceiling damage. This had followed a period of stormy weather. Ms V tried to contact Triton to 
start the claim process, but her emails and calls werent returned. She went ahead and had 
the damaged work repaired and provided the invoice to Triton. Ms V needed to make 
another claim in January 2020 following an accident with her laptop. Again, she tried to 
contact Triton without success and, because she needed a laptop, she replaced it with a 
cheaper model. 
As Ms V hadnt been able to speak to Triton about her claims, she called the underwriting 
agency shown on her insurance documents. They told her that they didnt have an agency 
with Triton when the policy was renewed, and Ms V didnt have a policy in place. The agency 
also confirmed that Triton hadnt passed on Ms Vs insurance premium. So, they were 
unable to help with the claims. They advised Ms V to get in touch with Triton in the first 
instance. She tried to do this, and Ms V also took out alternative insurance. 
She didnt hear anything from Triton, so she raised a complaint with them. They didnt 
respond to that, so Ms V brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator asked Triton 
to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator upheld the complaint for Ms V. She 
asked Triton to treat Ms V as though she was insured and pay for Ms Vs claims that would 
have been covered, minus any policy excesses that would have applied. She also asked 
Triton to pay 8% interest from the dates the claims were made to the date they make the 
payment. Ms V was also awarded £100 compensation for the upset shed been caused.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with any information, so my decision is based solely on what Ms V has provided. I find her 
information plausible and persuasive.
Ms V paid Triton to ensure her policy remained active. And, once she was aware she didnt 
have any insurance cover in force, she made sure she sought cover immediately.
Ms Vs insurers cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. Unfortunately, Triton 
havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide Ms V with an explanation 
as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Ms V renewed her policy in good faith 
expecting to have a valid insurance policy. Im also satisfied that Triton shouldnt have 
offered Ms V any insurance cover with the insurer. As Ms V renewed the policy in good faith, 
its fair for Triton to put her back in the position she would have been had the insurance 
policy been active. They should treat Ms V as if shes insured. Triton should pay for all Ms 
Vs losses that would have been covered by the insurance policy, minus any policy excesses 
that were applicable. 
Ms V has also shown that she tried to contact Triton several times to discuss her claims, and 
the subsequent problems she encountered when she found out her insurance hadnt been 
set up. None of Ms Vs calls or emails were returned. Because of this upset, its also 
reasonable for Triton to pay Ms V £100 compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises 
the inconvenience and upset in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Treat Ms V as if she was insured;
They should pay all Ms Vs losses that would have been covered by the policy, less 
any applicable excesses;
Pay interest at 8% simple on the amount due from the dates the claims were made 
until the date this amount is settled;
Pay Ms V £100 compensation for the upset caused.
 
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Ms V how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Ms V a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman