DRN-3494291
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt deduct a 
refund from his account balance.
What happened
Mr B says he received a refund applied to his AESEL credit card account in December 2021. 
He says he was still required by AESEL to pay the balance despite the refund which he says 
meant his account was in credit. Mr B says that cant be fair and would like AESEL to amend 
its terms and conditions about this issue. He would also like his annual account fee of £250 
refunded and complains about how his complaint was dealt with.
AESEL says its terms and conditions make clear that it doesnt treat any account refunds as 
a payment. It accepts it didnt raise a complaint when Mr B spoke to it and has paid £75 
compensation.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought AESEL had acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions by 
not applying a refund to an account balance. The investigator thought Mr B could have 
requested that the refund be paid to him from AESEL and explained that we couldnt 
consider the complaint handling part of the complaint.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and in summary says AESEL was not acting as a responsible 
lender and says the terms and conditions are irrelevant in these circumstances. He 
questions why effectively AESEL is now a deposit taker and says he is appalled that it is 
suggested he should ask for his money back. Mr B also says that it shouldnt matter if he 
makes the payment or if its made in the form of a refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate his frustration about 
AESELs policy on this issue. I hope Mr B appreciates that we are not AESELs regulator 
and so its not our role to direct it to change its policy or tell it how it runs its business.
They key part of this complaint concerns the account terms and conditions which set out the 
agreement between Mr B and AESEL and which Mr B would have agreed to when the 
account was opened. The terms and conditions make clear that a refund will not be treated 
as a payment towards an account balance. So, Im satisfied that AESEL didnt make a 
mistake or act unfairly by requiring a payment to be made in these circumstances and by not 
treating the refund as a payment.
I appreciate that Mr B says it should not matter how a payment is made. But its not the role 
of this service to decide upon such matters, and I have made clear that the agreed terms 
and conditions are clear about this issue, that a refund will not be regarded as a payment.
The investigator has explained that complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so is 
not something I can comment on further in this decision. I also cant comment on what Mr B 
says about AESEL becoming an approved deposit taker.
Overall, Im satisfied that AESEL acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions and 
that is the only real issue I need to consider in this complaint. I appreciate Mr Bs frustration 
about how refunds are considered but that is not something this service can consider. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman