DRN-3094501
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account without notice. Mr B wants to 
know the reason for the closure and wants compensation.
What happened
Mr B had a current account and an ISA account with Barclays.
Mr Bs account was sent £20,000 in error by a friend. Mr B contacted Barclays and let them 
know this money wasnt his. 
Barclays reviewed Mr Bs accounts and decided to close the accounts on 11 May 2020.
Barclays removed the balance on his account of £2,084.73. The ISA account was also 
closed and £87,219.44 including interest was returned to Mr B by cheque. But there was a 
delay of nearly a month in returning the ISA funds to Mr B.
Mr B complained to Barclays. They agreed they shouldnt have closed his accounts.
They accepted the closure of the current account meant some of Mr Bs direct debits were 
not paid and he had to borrow money from family and friends.
Barclays reopened Mr Bs account on 26 May 2020.They credited Mr Bs re-opened account 
with  an extra £824.90 -£750 of that was by way of apology for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and £74.90 was for the extra interest Mr B would have received had 
his ISA account been left to mature. 
Because Mr B didnt receive his ISA cheque as promised, he complained again to Barclays. 
Barclays reopened the complaint. Mr B was also credited with £550 compensation for the 
time it had taken Barclays to return the ISA cheque to him and the problems with the 
reinstated account. They accepted he had to make numerous calls and it had taken a long 
time to resolve the complaint.
Mr B was unhappy with the compensation figure, so he complained to our service.
Mr B said he had been put through two months of stress  he felt very stressed and this 
affected him physically and mentally- he spent many hours in phone calls with Barclays  to 
get things sorted.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint  Barclays had agreed they had made 
errors. He looked at the impact on Mr B and considered the compensation paid by Barclays 
was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr B disagreed. He said he would expect compensation over £2,500.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have admitted they made mistakes, so I will limit myself to deciding the amount of 
compensation Mr B should receive. In order to do this, I have looked at the impact Barclays 
error had on Mr B.
Impact on Mr B 
Mr B has told us the impact the mistake had on him. He has told us he was newly separated 
and had moved to a new home with all the associated bills.
 
At the time of the closure of the account he was working away from home so being left with 
no access to his funds was very difficult. He had to borrow money from family and friends, 
and he has said he felt embarrassed to ask.
He has told us he was worried about his direct debits and one of them was declined. He had 
sleepless nights and was affected physically and mentally by the whole situation.
I appreciate that Mr B was a long-standing customer of Barclays and he contacted them 
immediately he spotted the £20,000 in his account. He had done the right thing and been a 
loyal customer for years and still he felt he was treated badly.
Mr B has said that he was concerned about his ISA and whether he would lose all the 
interest as his ISA account was also closed.
Mr Bs interactions with Barclays could have gone better and even after they admitted their 
error and tried to put things right- further errors were made which resulted in him not 
receiving his ISA balance and not being able to use his reinstated account properly.
I dont doubt that as Mr B has said he had a very stressful 6 weeks when he was very 
worried and Im sure he wondered if things would ever get sorted.
In total the business has paid Mr B £1,300 in compensation for their errors as well as £74.90 
in lost interest on his ISA account.
Mr B has said that he considers £2,500 would be fairer considering what he went through.
I appreciate what Mr B is saying. But having looked at all the information before me and 
taking into account everything that Mr B has told us, I think that £1,300 already paid is a fair 
amount of compensation and in line with our approach. I appreciate Mr B will be 
disappointed by my decision, but Barclays have done enough to put things right and I wont 
be asking them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above my final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to do anything else to resolve Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman