DRN-1545005
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Virgin Money plc has overcharged them interest on their buy to 
let mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs E owned a property. They decided to move out and buy a new property, but 
instead of selling the old one they took out a buy to let mortgage to rent it out. The mortgage 
was with Northern Rock and they initially took a two year fixed rate.
By the time the fixed rate had expired, Northern Rock had collapsed. It wasnt in a position to 
offer new interest rates itself. But it wrote to its customers  including Mr and Mrs E  to say 
that it had arranged with another bank to transfer mortgages to that bank if customers 
wanted to apply. Mr and Mrs E say they didnt get that letter.
Northern Rock also offered to refer customers to a mortgage broker so they could explore 
re-mortgaging more widely. Virgin Money says Mr and Mrs E were referred to the broker at 
the time, after Mr E spoke to Northern Rock about the interest rate. But for whatever reason, 
Mr and Mrs E didnt move their mortgage elsewhere, and it went onto Northern Rocks 
standard variable rate (SVR).
In 2012, Northern Rock became Virgin Money. In 2015, Virgin Money made new interest 
rates available to buy to let mortgage customers. It contacted borrowers whose mortgages 
went on to SVR from then on  but not those who were already on SVR, such as 
Mr and Mrs E.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs E contacted Virgin Money to ask to reduce their interest rate. And they 
complained that it hadnt offered them one before, and they said they had been overpaying 
for ten years. Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint, so Mr and Mrs E asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs E say they werent aware their mortgage went onto the SVR or that they were 
paying too much. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think thats right. Virgin 
Moneys contact notes show conversations between it and Mr and Mrs E from around the 
time the fixed rate ended. As a result of these conversations, Mr and Mrs E were referred to 
a broker to see if they could re-mortgage elsewhere. I dont know why they didnt; it may be 
that they didnt follow up the referral, or they did but the broker couldnt help them. At any 
rate, they stayed with Virgin Money.
I accept that, ten years on, Mr and Mrs E might not remember these conversations. Thats 
quite likely; human memory is fallible. But given theyre recorded in the notes from the time, I 
think its likely they did take place. And so I think Mr and Mrs E did know that their fixed rate had ended, that they had moved on to the SVR, and that they had options to do something 
about that.
Mr and Mrs E say they didnt get the post from the time. As part of the conversations around 
this time, Mr E told Northern Rock of their new address, but it said it needed confirmation in 
writing. It never received that. And Mr and Mrs E say they received various items forwarded 
from their buy to let property (and former residence) over the years, which would have told 
them it was still writing to their old address. But theres no evidence they asked Virgin Money 
to correct the address before 2018, after the conversation in 2009, or that they confirmed the 
change in writing as requested.
Until 2015, Virgin Money didnt offer new interest rates to any of its buy to let customers. 
Mr and Mrs E therefore werent being treated differently to any other customers with similar 
mortgages. And it had given them options to move to another lender if they wanted or were 
able to do so. So I dont think they were treated unfairly over that period.
Once it did offer new rates, from 2015 onwards, Virgin Money wasnt under any obligation to 
contact customers already on SVR to let them know.  It did contact customers moving onto 
SVR  it was obliged to tell those customers that their payments would change  but 
Mr and Mrs E didnt fall into that category.
This is a buy to let mortgage. Its not secured over Mr and Mrs Es home. Its secured over a 
property they rent out to profit from. Its essentially a business proposition. And, as a buy to 
let mortgage, its not a regulated mortgage contract. 
Mr and Mrs E say they werent financially sophisticated or knowledgeable about mortgages. 
So Virgin Money owed them a duty of care. But Ive explained that it wasnt obliged to tell 
them about its new interest rate products. It had no knowledge of any particular factors that 
made Mr or Mrs E vulnerable. And as this was a business venture by Mr and Mrs E, I think 
they had some responsibility to keep a watch on their costs and explore ways of keeping 
them down.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs E wish they had paid less over the last ten years  either 
by moving to another lender after 2009, or taking a new product with Virgin Money after 
2015. But Im not persuaded that it was Virgin Moneys fault that they didnt, or that its 
treated them unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman