DRN-1548721
The complaint
Mrs T says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2002.
What happened
Mrs T bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card through an 
internet application. She said none of the terms and conditions was explained to her; and 
she was not told the PPI was optional. She didnt need PPI because she had good 
employee benefits. So she concludes the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with our adjudicators view, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to look at again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. I know this will be a disappointing result, so I 
will explain the reasons why.
I first looked to see if Canada Square Operations made Mrs T aware the policy was an 
optional product because she says she wasnt told the policy was optional. However, I 
think Canada Square Operations made Mrs T aware on her internet application form that 
she had a choice about buying the PPI. I say this because Ive seen the internet 
screenshots which Canada Square Operations says its consumers would have seen 
around the time of Mrs Ts sale. I can see the consumer was presented with a choice of 
Yes or No to buy PPI. And Canada Square said the application could not progress to 
the next web page until a consumer had said yes or no to PPI. So as there was a choice 
given to Mrs T, I think the policy was shown as optional. I think that as Mrs T chose to take 
PPI, she consented to have it added to her credit card account  although she cant now 
remember this.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T, so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to give her enough information which was 
clear, fair and not misleading, so she could make her own decision.
I looked at the information Canada Square Operations said it gave to Mrs T. I think 
the information about the cost and benefits was clear enough for her on the internet 
application. And as I think she chose to take out the PPI - it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover  so I dont think that any more detailed information would have 
put her off from buying PPI.
Mrs T told Canada Square Operations that she had no savings and good employee 
benefits at the time of the sale. I noted the PPI could pay out for longer than and in 
addition to her employee benefits, so I think the PPI could have been useful for her. 
Mrs T also told us she could have relied on her other insurance policy  but she 
hasnt produced any documents about it. Mrs T said it provided life cover, critical 
illness cover and income protection. However, I think the PPI could still have been 
useful for her as the PPI covered different insurance events and it would leave her 
other insurance to cover other lifetime events.
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the exclusions would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown to be an optional product and 
Mrs T consented to have it added to her credit card account. I think the information was 
probably clear enough for her to make a decision. So I am not going to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman