DRN-4276737
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs R complain about the way Ageas Insurance Limited has handled a claim they 
made on their home insurance policy for damage.
What happened
In 2021, Mr S and Mrs Rs home was damaged by a car. They have a home insurance policy 
with Ageas. The policy covers their property and three other flats in the same building. Mr S 
and Mrs R notified Ageas of the damage and it accepted the claim. In November 2021, 
Ageas responded to a complaint from Mr S and Mrs R, they were unhappy with the delays 
and poor communication. That complaint wasnt referred to this service.
In April 2022, Ageas responded to another complaint about the service that had been 
provided, and an offer of £150 compensation was made. 
In September 2022, Ageas responded to a further complaint from Mr S and Mrs R. They said 
matters had not progressed and the repairs still hadnt been carried out. Ageas accepted its 
service had fallen below what it would expect, and it offered Mr S and Mrs R £250 as an 
apology for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. Unhappy with this 
response, a complaint was brought to this service.
By the time our investigator reviewed the complaint, Ageas had made a cash settlement 
payment to Mr S and Mrs R for the cost of the works, for around £9,500. This included the 
cost for the damaged render on the outside of the property, as well as some internal works 
needed. 
Mr S and Mrs R said they were happy with this amount, but Ageas hadnt offered anything 
for them being out of their property for over a year. They also said they were having trouble 
getting anyone to do the repairs, as their home was part of a building with three other flats in 
it. 
Whilst our investigator was reviewing matters, Ageas said it had paid Mr S and Mrs R too 
much. It said it had paid Mr S and Mrs R for the full cost of the external damage. But under 
Mr S and Mrs Rs policy, they were only liable for a quarter of the cost of the external 
damage, as the cost would be spread among the other flats. It said it would look to recover 
some costs from Mr S and Mrs R. 
Our investigator said it wouldnt be fair for Ageas to claim the money back, because doing so 
would mean the repairs to Mr S and Mrs Rs property wont be carried out. She said Ageas 
taking this action had caused further unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mr S and 
Mrs R, so Ageas should pay a further £200 compensation to reflect this.
Our investigator didnt think Ageas needed to pay any amount for alternative accommodation 
(AA), She said under the policy, AA would only be paid if the property was uninhabitable, 
she wasnt satisfied this was the case.
Mr S and Mrs R accepted the findings of the investigator. Ageas didnt. It maintained it 
should be able to recover costs from Mr S and Mrs R. So the matter has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Ageas point that there are other policy holders on this policy, but theyve only 
received one claim. And having considered everything, I dont think it would be fair to Mr S 
and Mrs R for it to ask for the money it paid to be returned.
The damage to the render has been sustained to Mr S and Mrs R property. They have been 
told by the managing agent of the property that the repairs will need to be done through 
them. And Mr S and Mrs R have been trying to get this done. If Ageas were to ask for the 
funds to be returned, then Mr S and Mrs R would be left in a position where theyre unable to 
have the render fixed. They say the cracks in the render is allowing water to ingress into the 
property, causing further damage. So it is important theyre able to repair their property. 
Ageas has accepted it has delayed the progress of this claim and has given compensation 
for these delays on separate occasions throughout the claim. And Ageas was aware from 
early in the claim that this was a policy with more than one policyholder. I consider it had 
ample opportunity to consider the impact of other policyholders. So it now wouldnt be 
reasonable to put any more barriers in the way of the property being repaired.
Its possible Ageas is considering there may be other claims, from other policyholders 
relating to this damage further down the line. I dont consider this to be Mr S and Mrs R 
fault. It has also, as far as Im aware, been able to recover its outlay from the third-party 
insurer of the car that caused the damage. If any other claims were to be made, Ageas will 
need to take whatever steps it thinks are appropriate.
Mr S and Mrs R say theyve been unable to return to the property whilst the repairs were 
outstanding. I agree with our investigator that Ageas dont need to pay costs relating to 
alternative accommodation. I dont doubt this has been a distressing time, Mr S and Mrs R 
have said the trauma of the event is one reason they havent felt able to return. Thats 
understandable given what happened. But under their policy, Ageas would only pay for 
alternative accommodation if the property was uninhabitable. And Im satisfied that wasnt 
the case. 
As noted above, Ageas accepts its service has fallen below its usual standards, since 2022 it 
has paid a total of £400 for the impact of delays and poor communication. I agree with our 
investigator that it should pay a further £200. This is for the substantial distress caused by 
unfairly telling Mr S and Mrs R it would be asking for funds to be returned. Ive no doubt the 
additional worry, and the delay this has likely caused in any work being able to progress, has 
had an impact on Mr S and Mrs R.
I understand Mr S and Mrs R have had other challenges in starting the works, due to the 
managing agent. But since Ageas has now paid its cash settlement, and it wont be asking 
for any funds to be returned, it wouldnt be responsible for any further delay from this point. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited isnt able to reclaim any costs its paid to  
Mr S and Mrs R relating to the claim.It also needs to pay a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
in its handling of the claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman