DRN-3149633
The complaint
Mr A complains that Amtrust Europe Limited declined his claim for legal expenses under a
home insurance policy. Reference to Amtrust includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr A renewed his home insurance policy via a broker. The policy 
included buildings cover, home assistance and family legal protection.
Mr A has a dispute with the underwriter of his buildings cover, who Ill refer to as L. I 
understand that Mr As property suffered water damage. L agreed to settle Mr As claim, but 
Mr A didnt agree with the amount of the settlement. Mr A made a separate complaint about 
L to this service. He asked Amtrust to assist with a claim against L under his family legal 
protection cover.
Amtrust declined Mr As claim. It relied on exclusions in the policy which Ill refer to in more 
detail below. Mr A pursued his complaint. He wants Amtrust to provide legal cover and to 
compensate him for his losses as a result of it refusing cover.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. The investigator didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable for Amtrust 
to rely on the exclusions it had referred to.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
His legal expenses policy is an add-on and not part of his policy.
The underwriter of his buildings cover, L, isnt aware that he has a legal expenses    
policy and, likewise, Amtrust isnt aware that L are his building insurers. 
The underwriters referred to in the exclusion are Amtrust.
The exclusion relating to financial service products doesnt include home insurance.
Amtrust said that it wasnt declining his claim based on the exclusion about financial 
service products
The legal expenses policy can be bought as a stand-alone policy.
Mr A asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision
On 8 October 2021, I sent the parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
intended to uphold the complaint and direct Amtrust to consider Mr As claim under the 
remaining terms of the policy. I said:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy, 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Mr A wants to make a claim against his family legal protection cover in relation to Ls 
decision about settlement of his claim against his buildings cover. Ls final response to 
Mr A in relation to that was in October 2019. So, the event Mr A wants legal assistance 
with occurred in the policy year December 2018 to December 2019. So, thats the 
policy I refer to below.
The family legal protection part of Mr As policy says: 
What is not insured
There is no cover in respect of the following:- 
[]
3) Claims concerning a dispute between You and Us or the Underwriters. 
[]
11) Claims arising from or relating to: 
[]
xxi) Civil claims or complaints in respect of financial service products, banking or 
misselling of financial service products including bank and building society charges.
The definitions section of the family legal protection cover includes the following: 
Underwriters AmTrust Europe Limited []
We/Us/Our [] acting on behalf of the Underwriters.
Mr As home insurance policy includes buildings cover, home assistance, and family 
legal protection. The buildings cover is underwritten by L. The home assistance and 
family legal protection cover are underwritten by Amtrust. The three parts make up  
Mr As home insurance policy. Its not unusual for there to be more than one 
underwriter in policies like the one here. As this is a claim on the legal expenses 
insurance, its those terms that apply.
The legal expenses policy excludes Claims concerning a dispute between You and 
Us or the Underwriters. The policy defines Underwriters as Amtrust. The definition 
doesnt include L. So, I dont think that Amtrust was right to decline Mr As claim 
against L on the basis of that exclusion.
Amtrust referred to the exclusion relating to claims or complaints about financial 
service products in its correspondence with Mr A. Mr A says that Amtrust told him 
that it wasnt relying on that exclusion. I havent seen anything to support Mr As 
recollection about that. On balance, I dont think that I can safely conclude that 
Amtrust waived its right to rely on this exclusion.But I dont think its clear to the average consumer that financial service products 
includes a home insurance policy, particularly as the description in the policy terms 
refers to things like bank accounts. I think that Amtrust could have been clearer  
about that and I dont think its fair for it to rely on this exclusion to decline Mr As 
claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A agreed with my provisional decision. Amtrust said:
It agrees that the exclusion relating to disputes concerning the underwriter didnt 
include disputes against L (the underwriter of Mr As buildings cover). 
I should reconsider my conclusions about the exclusion relating to claims or 
complaints about financial services. 
Its common for insurance policies to be referred to as financial service products and 
both the legal expenses cover and the home insurance are covered by the 
Financial Conduct Authority, which is shown in the policy documentation. 
This service has previously looked at Mr As separate complaint against L, which 
was about a financial service product and Mr A has clearly understood this 
services role in investigating complaints about financial service products.
It disagrees that the unspecified average consumer wouldnt understand that home 
insurance is a financial service product as its clear from the policy wording. 
Whilst the exclusion doesnt specifically refer to insurance, there are many other 
financial products not listed in the exclusion and it would be impractical to list every 
possible financial service product. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the exclusion relating to financial service products, which is set out 
above. 
Amtrust says Its common for insurance policies to be referred to as financial service 
products and that  both the legal expenses cover and the home insurance are regulated by 
the FCA, which is shown in the policy documentation. I dont think that it would have been 
clear to Mr A that a shared regulator necessarily means that financial service products 
includes a home insurance policy. And I dont think that fact that Mr A has previously 
complained to this service about L means that hed know what the exclusion meant in this 
case. 
I dont agree that its clear from the policy wording that home insurance is a financial 
service product. I appreciate that it would be impractical to list every financial service 
product in the exclusion. But in the particular circumstances here, where theres no 
reference to insurance in the exclusion, which specifically refers to things such as bank 
accounts, I dont think that it would be clear to Mr A that his claim against L wouldnt be 
covered by the policy. It follows that I dont think its fair or reasonable for Amtrust in these 
circumstances to rely on that exclusion to decline Mr As claim. Ive considered whats been said but I remain of the view that Amtrust didnt act fairly and 
reasonably in declining Mr As claim for the reasons it gave. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Amtrust should consider Mr As claim under the remaining terms
of the policy.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited should now take 
the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman