DRN-2287438
The complaint
Ms S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Ms S bought a regular premium MPPI policy in May 1997 alongside a mortgage. The policy 
covered Ms S against unemployment, accidents and sickness.
Ms S says she was told it was a requirement to take out insurance with her mortgage. She 
says she was mis-sold the MPPI policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. As Ms S doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Ms Ss complaint because of the following reasons:
Ms S says she was told it was a requirement to take out insurance with her 
mortgage.
I acknowledge what Ms S has said about this. I cant be sure exactly what was 
discussed between Ms S and Lloyds when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that 
the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections of what happened 
can fade over time.
Lloyds hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising either given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases 
Ive seen. 
Without anything else to support what Ms S has told me and based on what I know of 
sales conducted by Lloyds during that time, I cant safely conclude that Lloyds didnt 
make her aware of the policy or that it was optional and that she chose to have it. 
Moving on, Lloyds has said it recommended the MPPI to Ms S during the meeting 
and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this 
was the case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Ms S, it had to ensure during the 
sale that the policy was suitable for Ms Ss needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Ms S based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Ms S 
says she would have been able to use 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay. But 
the MPPI policy would have paid in addition to any provisions she would have had 
and more likely for longer (in the case up to 12 months a claim). So, the benefit 
would have been of use to Ms S during a difficult time as she could have used her 
provisions to pay for other expenses. I think, on balance, Ms S had a need for this 
cover at the date of sale, for any extended period of need. I also couldnt find any 
other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would make the policy 
unsuitable for her either.
Lloyds has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that 
Ms S took out but even though it has provided information detailing how much it cost 
it hasnt provided details on the benefit provided and I cannot be sure that the costs 
were disclosed to Ms S in a clear and fair way at the time of sale either. That said, 
even if they were disclosed clearly, I dont think Ms S would have done anything 
different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already 
given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Ms S wouldve been affected by any of these.
In conclusion, although I know it will come as a disappointment, I do not uphold Ms Ss 
complaint. But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman