DRN-3105041
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declared her boiler beyond economical repair 
(BER) whilst handling a claim under her home emergency policy, leaving her without heating 
or hot water.
What happened
Mrs Bs home emergency policy provides for servicing of her boiler. Aviva carried out a 
service in April 2021. During the service the engineers determined there were several faults 
with the boiler. They felt it needed to be isolated for safety reasons. Unfortunately, this left 
Mrs B without heating or hot water. In assessing the faults with the cost of repairs, Aviva 
confirmed the boiler was BER.
Aviva said it would supply a new boiler, under the terms of its policy, but Mrs B needed to 
pay for the installation. Mrs B was unhappy that the boiler had been deemed BER and she 
would have to pay for the installation of a new one. She thought the engineers must have 
damaged the boiler during the service. 
The day after the visit, Aviva sent fan heaters for Mrs B to use while the boiler wasnt 
working. And a quote for installing a new boiler. She complained about the BER decision 
and another engineer went to inspect the boiler just over a week later. He supported the 
decision that the boiler was BER. 
Mrs B referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She 
thought Aviva had shown the boiler was BER and had acted in line with its policy terms 
when offering to provide a boiler but charge for its installation. Our investigator thought it was 
appropriate that fan heaters had been supplied, and that Aviva had responded in a timely 
manner.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. It has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing for her, but I will explain why I think this is fair.
For clarity, issues relating to the installation of the new boiler are subject to a separate 
complaint. This doesnt form part of my consideration here. 
The terms of Mrs Bs policy say:
Beyond Economical Repair (BER) (applies to the boiler only): Upon making a claim, the 
total cost of parts (including VAT) required to repair the boiler will be determined by us using 
reputable suppliers. If this cost exceeds 85% of the manufacturers current retail price (or if 
this is not available, the average current retail price available through leading UK suppliers) 
for a boiler of the same or similar make and model to your boiler or the then current version 
of your boiler, it will be deemed to be BER.
And:
If the boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older, we will source, 
replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the installation costs. We will 
provide for you, a quote for this work.
Also:
Temporary heaters: We will deliver two temporary electrical heaters to your home, in the 
event that we are unable to attend within the same day or next day of your claim being 
raised. The heaters will not need to be returned to us. Any and all costs relating to the use of 
the heaters is not covered by us or the underwriter. Please bear in mind that these heaters 
are only temporary and should not be used as a permanent source of heating.
Aviva has supplied a report that shows the faults found with the boiler. This includes a 
leaking heat engine, a leaking pump manifold caused by a crack in the housing, a leak with 
the automatic air vent and leaks on the boiler isolation valves. I note the engineer didnt think 
these faults were caused as a result of Avivas attempts to service the boiler. 
Im not a qualified boiler engineer, so I must rely on the expert opinion provided. On balance 
I think its reasonable to accept Avivas view that there were several existing faults at the 
time of the service. And this meant the boiler had to be isolated and was correctly 
considered BER. I havent seen any evidence that indicates faults were caused by the 
engineers who attended.  
From the records provided Aviva sent two fan heaters for Mrs B to use the day after the BER 
decision was made. I think this was fair. Its not entirely clear from the terms what happens in 
relation to provision of heaters when the boiler is determined BER. But as Mrs B had no 
heating, I think this was reasonable. 
I understand Aviva has installed a new boiler for Mrs B. But she isnt happy with the cost 
involved. The terms require a new boiler to be supplied without charge, but the cost of the 
installation is payable. I note the cost of the installation was £1,368. Mrs B hasnt provided 
other quotes as a comparison. However, from looking online, I have obtained quotes for 
installation of a combi-boiler ranging from £1,860 to £2,600 in Mrs Bs local area. Taking off 
the cost of the boiler  these quotes appear similar to that quoted by Aviva for the 
installation. 
It must have been distressing for Mrs B to learn that her boiler was faulty and required 
replacing. This meant a period without heating and hot water, but also the significant cost 
involved to install a new one. Mrs B explains that she has health concerns and both she and 
her partner are elderly, meaning they have really struggled without a working boiler. I dont 
doubt this, and I sympathise with the predicament they found themselves in. 
That said, Aviva isnt at fault for the boiler needing to be replaced. The evidence shows it 
provided a source of alternative heating in the fan heaters, and a quote to install a new boiler 
in a timely manner. A second opinion was also provided to confirm whether the boiler was 
indeed BER. I think this was also arranged in a timely manner.
Having considered all of this, I think Aviva was fair in relying on its policy terms and 
determining the boiler to be BER. It behaved reasonably when providing a quote for installation and supplying alternative heating. I also think it responded appropriately to Mrs 
Bs concern that the engineers had damaged the boiler. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
more to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman