DRN-4328549
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank acted 
irresponsibly when it provided her with two loans between 2017 and 2018.
Background
Miss P took out two loans with Tesco Bank, one in March 2017 and the second in April 2018. 
She has said that at the time her borrowing was becoming unmanageable and that she was 
overly reliant on credit, borrowing from one lender to repay another. Shes said that if Tesco 
Bank had completed proper affordability checks it wouldve realised that she was over 
extended and would struggle to repay the loans. 
Tesco has said that at the time of each loan application it ran proportionate checks on Miss 
P and that the loans appeared to be affordable and sustainable. It says the first loan was 
taken out for home improvements and then consolidated into the second loan. It has 
provided evidence of the information it gathered at the time as well as referring to the 
information from Miss Ps credit file, which it said didnt show any signs that she was 
struggling to meet her existing credit repayments. So, it thought it did enough and that the 
evidence at the time showed the lending was appropriate. So, it didnt uphold Miss Ps 
complaint. 
Unhappy with Tesco Banks response Miss P brought her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into it already. He found that based on the information available to it 
at the time there was nothing on Miss Ps credit file or lending history that would indicate 
further credit would be problematic for her. So, he didnt uphold her complaint. Miss P 
disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint and so its been passed to me for consideration. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings reached by our investigator and wont be upholding 
Miss Ps complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss P and so Id like to 
explain why Ive reached the outcome I have. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Miss P has explained that at the time she applied for both loans she was living outside of her 
means and applying for credit beyond what she could reasonably afford. Shes said that this 
was linked to toxic relationship with someone who was controlling and advising her to take 
out loans and credit cards she otherwise wouldnt have applied for. Id like to thank Miss P 
for sharing this information with us, I know its very difficult to disclose and Im glad to hear 
that her situation has since changed and shes in a better place personally. 
When we consider whether or not businesses acted responsibly when providing credit to 
consumers we look at what checks were carried out and what information those checks 
produced. There are rules set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, in regard 
to what lenders need to do before providing credit. But while those rules require affordability 
checks to take place, they dont stipulate exactly what the checks should be. So, lenders 
have some discretion around what information theyll ask consumers to provide before 
agreeing to lend to them. And this means consumers may notice that different lenders asked 
for different things when they applied for credit with them.
When Miss P applied for her loans with Tesco Bank it asked her to complete an income and 
expenditure form so it could see what her existing outgoings were and what her likely 
disposable income might be. It also ran checks on her credit file to understand what her 
existing monthly credit repayments were and how those accounts were being maintained. 
These are pretty standard affordability checks and depending on what the results of those 
are businesses may approve the application, decline the application, or ask for additional 
information, like bank statements for example. 
When Miss P completed her application she declared she had a monthly net income of 
about £1,900. Her existing outgoings, including her mortgage/rent, existing credit 
repayments and other living costs came to approximately £700. Which meant that the loan 
appeared to be affordable as even with monthly repayments included shed still have roughly 
£900 a month left over once all her credit obligations were met. 
In addition to this Tesco Bank has also said that Miss Ps credit file showed no signs of any 
stress in either March 2017 or April 2018 when she applied for the loans. She did have some 
existing forms of credit, such as loans and credit cards, but these were being properly 
maintained and there was no evidence of missed payments etc. And the second loan, from 
April 2018, consolidated the first loan, so while the monthly repayment amount increased, 
there was only one monthly repayment required. So, it was satisfied that Miss P could afford 
the loans and would be able to sustain them over the repayment term.
Miss P has said that it shouldve been clear she was overly dependent on credit and was 
borrowing to meet existing credit obligations. Shes provided us with some screen shots of 
bank statements at the time that show her account as overdrawn. She doesnt think the 
credit was sustainable and has explained that in February 2019 she started to miss 
payments and the loan eventually defaulted in the summer of 2019. 
Ive looked at the statements Miss P has provided and while I can see that the account was 
overdrawn I can also see that Miss P transferred £5,000 into it from another account in her 
name to clear the balance. So, although Miss P was using the overdraft facility on this 
account, it does seem like she had access to funds elsewhere and so Ive not been able to 
rely on these bank statements as evidence that Miss P had no disposable income available 
to her at the time. 
Ive also noted in between the first loan taken in March 2017 and the second loan taken in 
April 2018, Miss P took out a mortgage which wouldve involved very thorough affordability 
checks, which are considerably more extensive than those completed for lower value 
unsecured personal loans. So, it seems unlikely that Miss P wouldve been approved for a 
mortgage if her finances were showing indications that she was struggling. Following this 
Miss P also applied for a store card and a loan with another high street bank, but again the 
addition of these new forms of credit, in and of themselves, dont necessarily indicate that 
she was over extended. And both of these accounts were being well maintained when Miss P applied for her second loan with Tesco Bank. 
I can see that after the second loan was taken in April 2018 Miss P started to apply for more 
unsecured personal loans and credit cards. But these were all with different providers and all 
happened after the second loan application with Tesco Bank. 
I dont doubt Miss P when she says that the various forms of credit she applied for between 
2017 and 2019 ultimately resulted in her becoming over indebted and unable to manage her 
finances. And Im sorry these choices were made as a result of pressure put on her by a 
coercive partner. But I can only consider the information available to Tesco Bank in March 
2017 and April 2018 and whether the decision it made to provide Miss P with the loans was 
reasonable. And that comes down to what information it gathered and what that information 
told it about Miss Ps circumstances in March 2017 and April 2018. And having looked at that 
I cant say there was anything in the information Miss P provided, or the information 
available on her credit file at the time, that shouldve alerted the bank that she may struggle 
to repay the loans. 
And because I cant say the bank shouldve known the loans would likely become 
unmanageable or were unaffordable, I cant say Tesco Bank was wrong to provide her with 
the loans and so I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman