DRN-4269239
Complaint
Miss B has complained about high-cost short-term credit instalment loans she took out with 
Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream). She says Lending Stream should not have 
provided her with three loans. She also says that Lending Stream had incorrect information 
about her and this caused additional interest to be added to her agreements.
Background
Lending Stream provided Miss B with a total of three loans. The first of them was taken in  
February 2019 was for £200 and was due to be repaid in five instalments of £68.52 followed 
by a final instalment of £57.40. The second of the loans was taken in June 2019 was for 
£550 and was due to be repaid in five monthly instalments of £181.07 and final instalment of 
179.89. 
The last of loans taken in July 2019 was for £260 and was due to be repaid in five monthly 
instalments of £96.73 followed by a final instalment of £36.35. Miss B was lent to 
concurrently. But the total amount she owed Lending Stream at any one time was never 
above £1,000.00. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss B and Lending Stream had told us. And she 
thought that Lending Stream hadnt treated Miss B unfairly and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about short term lending on our website. And 
Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding        
Miss Bs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Miss B was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Lending 
Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether any lending was sustainable for Miss B before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lending Stream says it agreed to Miss Bs applications after shed provided details of his
monthly income and expenditure. It says the information Miss B provided on his income and
expenditure showed that shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was
committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand,        
Miss B says that the loans were unaffordable. 
Ive carefully thought about what Miss B and Lending Stream have said. The first thing for 
me to say is that these loans were Miss Bs first loans with Lending Stream and the total 
period of time Miss B was expected to be indebted to Lending Stream for was less than a 
year. So Miss B was only ever intended to be indebted to Lending Stream for a short period. 
The information provided does suggest that Miss B was asked to provide details of his 
income and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the 
questions Lending Stream asked Miss B and these were Miss Bs first loans, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information Miss B was providing.
Furthermore, even if Lending Stream had been expected to ask for more information by the 
time of the third loan, at best it would have asked to verify Miss Bs regular living costs. And 
Ive not been provided with anything that clearly shows me Lending Stream being in receipt 
of this information would have led to it reach a different answer on this case.
I accept that Miss Bs actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the
information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. And Im sorry to
hear that Miss B was struggling financially and that she found it difficult to repay her loans. 
But Lending Stream could only make its decisions based on the information it had available 
at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve extended into Lending Stream asking Miss B to provide evidence such as bank 
statements to verify what she was declaring.
Equally it's only really fair for me to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in
deciding to lend to Miss B - it carried out reasonable checks even though its looks like the
information it mightve been provided with was inaccurate and Ive not seen anything to 
indicate further verification of Miss Bs regular living costs would have led to it reaching a 
different outcome here.
Lending Stream reasonably relied on the information provided with and given the amount of
the repayments involved and the overall circumstances of Miss Bs loan history, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to lend  especially as there wasnt anything 
obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Miss B wouldnt be able to sustainably repay 
these loans.
I appreciate that Miss B is unhappy that Lending Stream sold on her loan balances to a third 
party debt purchaser in 2022. It looks like Lending Stream failed to receive payments after 
Miss B reported her bank card lost. As a result of this Miss Bs account fell into arrears.
I can see that Lending Stream wrote to Miss B at the address that she provided, a number of 
times, after it stopped receiving payments from her. I appreciate that Miss B may not have 
been living at this address at the time. But Lending Stream was writing to the last contact 
details that it had for Miss B  Miss B did update her contact details with Lending Stream but 
this wasnt done until February 2023, which was after the loans had already been sold.Furthermore, while Miss B says that Lending Stream sent notifications to an email address 
she does not recognise, it appears from the application details that this is the email address 
that Miss B provided when she applied for her loans. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Lending Stream to have used the correspondence details that it did. And in any event I 
would expect formal communications like notices of defaults and potential assignments to be 
posted rather than emailed. 
In any event, the important thing here is that I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable 
or proportionate for Lending Stream to have continued ignoring these outstanding balances 
indefinitely. So by this stage, I would have expected Lending Stream to have taken action in 
the way that it did. After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other 
adverse information, might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower 
certain protections in relation to the debt concerned  for example it stops the firm 
concerned adding interest and further charges. 
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Lending Stream to 
begin the process of taking corrective action in relation to Miss Bs accounts when it did. As 
this is the case and Miss B didnt respond to any of Lending Streams default notices or take 
any steps to repay what was owed, Im satisfied that Lending Stream was entitled to sell on 
Miss Bs accounts in the way that it did. 
I appreciate that Miss B is unhappy that the third-party debt company has added further 
charges. But the third-party company is a separate and independent firm in its own right. So 
if Miss B is unhappy with its actions, this is a matter that she will need to take up with it, 
rather than Lending Stream.    
  
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that the Lending Stream acted 
unfairly when provided Miss Bs loans or selling the outstanding debt. And Im therefore not 
upholding Miss Bs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss B. But 
I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel his concerns 
have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman