DRN-3766408
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the service he received from Great Lakes Insurance SE when he 
wanted to extend the time limit of his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P travelled to a country Ill refer to as T at a time when Covid-19 was still having an 
impact on international travel.  At the time he travelled, T was on the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Development Offices (FCDOs) amber list. This meant that there was no 
need for him to isolate on his return to the UK. 
Whilst Mr P was away T was moved to the red list which meant hed need to quarantine in a 
hotel when he got back to the UK. Mr T has diagnosed mental health conditions. He became 
very distressed because he didnt think hed be able to quarantine in a hotel due to the 
impact on his mental health.
He got in touch with Great Lakes to see if the policy could be extended  his plan was to 
travel to an amber list country and then fly to the UK so he didnt have to quarantine. Great 
Lakes didnt agree to that request. Mr P contacted Great Lakes again and explained that 
hed tried to book a flight but hadnt been able to find one within the 45 day trip limit. Great 
Lakes then agreed to extend the policy. 
Mr P says that during the four days he was trying to sort things out he was very distressed 
and unwell. He says Great Lakes made him unwell which meant he had to claim for medical 
expenses, and it had an impact on his fitness to fly. Mr P was deemed fit to fly a few weeks 
later and returned to the UK. Mr P wants Great Lakes to pay compensation for food 
expenses when he wasnt fit to fly, lost earnings, an increase in his premiums and for the 
overall service he received. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, she said the costs werent covered by the policy and Great Lakes had acted 
reasonably when considering the request for an extension. Mr P doesnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr P feels it shouldnt matter whether the expenses are 
covered by the policy. And, whilst he acknowledged Great Lakes resolved the matter within 
a few days, the damage had already been done. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im sorry to hear Mr P had such a distressing experience when visiting T and it moved to the 
red list. Its clear that it was a traumatic and difficult experience for him which had a 
significant impact on his wellbeing. 
This decision is about Mr Ps request to extend the trip limit. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
None of the expenses Mr P wants Great Lakes to cover are covered by the policy 
terms and conditions. It doesnt cover the cost of food, loss of earnings or an 
increase in premiums following a claim. 
Mr P travelled to T at a time when there was ongoing travel disruption and it wasnt 
unusual for countries to change from amber to red. Thats not a criticism of Mr P. 
But there was some always some risk when travelling at that time of changes to the 
red list and therefore some risk that Mr P would have needed to quarantine in a 
hotel on his return.   
I think Great Lakes acted reasonably when they declined the request to extend the 
trip limit the first time. Its not something they had to do, and they gave Mr P a 
reasonable explanation for their decision. That explanation was that they thought 
Mr P had enough time to get to an amber list country within the 45 day trip limit. I 
think that was reasonable. 
When Mr P gave Great Lakes further information about the availability of flights they 
quickly agreed to extend the trip limit. I think that was fair.  
Great Lakes resolved the issue within around four days. I think that was a reasonable 
timescale in the circumstances of this case. Great Lakes needed input from the 
underwriter of the policy, and they couldnt have given Mr P an answer straight away. 
Thats standard industry practice and I think it was reasonable in this case. 
I think Mr P received an acceptable level of service from Great Lakes. I appreciate he 
was very upset and worried. But I think Great Lakes did what they could to help him. 
Mr P needed to make a medical claim. He says this was because of what Great 
Lakes did and how it made him feel. But, as Ive explained, I dont think Great Lakes 
did something wrong here. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can 
fairly say they made Mr P unwell and caused him premiums to rise.
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to pay compensation for food, 
loss of earnings, increased premiums and distress caused to Mr P. Thats because I 
dont think they did anything wrong.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman