DRN-4436754
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with what American International Group UK Limited did after he made a 
claim on his mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2023 Mr B made a claim on his policy with AIG for damage to his phone after it had 
been dropped. The claim was accepted. After repair the device was returned to him on 9 
June. On 14 June he called AIG to say the phone wasnt working and the power button was 
broken. He asked if AIG would pay for the store he was in to repair it. 
AIG said he could return the phone to it for a repair under warranty. Mr B was unwilling to do 
that as he was going abroad that evening and needed a phone. He purchased a new phone 
and subsequently asked AIG to reimburse the cost of that. It didnt agree to do so. 
Our investigator said under the terms of the policy AIG were entitled to use non-standard 
parts in a repair. And she thought AIG were right to offer a repair under warranty when Mr B 
contacted it. It wasnt responsible for the fact this couldnt be completed before Mr B went 
abroad. But having reviewed the evidence he thought the phone had been faulty when 
returned to Mr B. And hed been put to some unnecessary distress and inconvenience in 
resolving matters for which AIG should pay him £100. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said the phone shouldnt have been returned in the condition it was 
and it couldnt have been repaired. He thought AIG should provide him with a new phone. 
AIG didnt agree either. It said Mr B hadnt followed the policy terms as they related to a 
warranty repair and it hadnt had the opportunity to inspect his phone as part of that process. 
It queried how wed therefore concluded it had been returned to him with a fault and didnt 
agree to the proposed compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy. It says for accidental damage and 
breakdown claims If Your Mobile Phone is Damaged or experiences Breakdown [insurers 
agent] will repair the Mobile Phone wherever possible or replace the Mobile Phone. And it 
says the repair will be carried out using readily available parts. 
It goes on to explain that where AIG has carried out a repair these parts and repairs will 
have a 24-month warranty And it says In the unlikely event that the replacement phone 
You receive has damage when you receive it, You must notify [insurers agent] within 72 
hours of accepting the delivery. If You notify [insurers agent] later than this, they may deem 
the damage to have occurred after the phone was received by You.
In this case Mr B says the initial repair to his phone by AIG wasnt carried out properly and it 
was defective when returned to him. That repair is covered by the above warranty and I dont 
think its unreasonable that AIG asked for the phone to be returned to it so it could inspect it 
and, if required, carry out a further repair under the terms of that warranty. I appreciate that 
Mr B didnt feel he was in a position to do that because he was going abroad but I dont think 
thats something AIG is responsible for, particularly as he didnt contact it until five days after 
the phone was returned to him. 
Mr B says there was no point in returning the phone because it couldnt have been repaired 
but I dont think the other evidence supports that. The store he took it into werent prepared 
to carry out the repair but that was because non-standard parts had been used in the 
previous repair meaning it wouldnt pass post repair diagnostics. That doesnt evidence the 
phone couldnt have been repaired if returned to AIG. And I think it would have been 
reasonable of Mr B to give it an opportunity to do so. 
Nevertheless, I do agree AIG should have carried out a correct repair of the phone when it 
was first sent back to Mr B. Ive thought about whether the evidence shows it did so or not. I 
accept that because Mr B hasnt returned the phone to it (and I understand no longer has the 
device) its more difficult to establish this. However, I think the report from the professional at 
the reputable store Mr B took his phone into is something I can reasonably rely on here. And 
that confirms the side button is sunken and non functional. 
I appreciate its possible something could have happened to the device after the repair had 
taken place. I also accept, as Ive said, that Mr B didnt contact AIG until five days after the 
phone had been returned to him (which is outside of the timeframe set out in his policy). But 
Ive also taken into account that the report hes provided comments on the condition of the 
device more generally and doesnt say theres any other damage to it beyond signs of 
normal wear and tear to display and enclosure. I think if something had subsequently 
happened to the device to cause the side button to be sunken and non functional its likely 
there would also be evidence of damage to the rest of the unit which isnt the case here. 
Taking all of that into account, and on balance, I think its reasonable to say there was an 
issue with the phone when it was returned to Mr B and the repair AIG carried out hadnt 
been completed properly. And Mr B was then put to some unnecessary inconvenience in 
resolving matters. I think in the circumstances its fair AIG makes a payment of £100 to 
recognise the impact of that on him. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. American International Group UK Limited will need to 
put things right by paying Mr B £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman