DRN-4150876
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy he didnt receive the 0% interest introductory offer when he applied for a 
balance transfer with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
In January 2023, Mr M applied for a balance transfer with Nationwide after seeing a 0% 
balance transfer introductory offer on his banking app. He completed the application on 
Nationwides website and was accepted. 
After receiving his first statement Mr M noticed hed been charged interest and realised the 
balance transfer offer hadnt been applied to his account so he raised a complaint. 
Nationwide explained Mr M wasnt eligible as the terms and conditions state introductory 
offers dont apply to customers who have had a credit card with them in the last 12 months. 
And whilst Mr M received notification of the offer via the banking app, offers on the banking 
app are generic and not member specific. 
Mr M was unhappy with their response and asked our service to look into matters. Our
investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong as they had made the terms of 
the account clear during the application process and Mr M accepted this. He also said the 
introductory offers on Mr Ms banking app werent tailored to him and he wouldnt have 
expected Nationwide to detail his ineligibility. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He says Nationwides advertising on the 
banking app is misleading and suggests its tailored to the customer. As Mr M remained 
unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Nationwides website which Mr M was directed to from his banking app to 
complete the application. Under when you apply it clearly outlines when customers would 
not be eligible for the introductory offers, it says:
If you have closed a Nationwide credit card in the last 12 months, you will not be able to 
get the introductory offers. 
However you can still apply for a new card and enjoy all the other benefits.
The website also asks customers to read the terms and conditions before completing their 
application. On page 3 of the terms and conditions under promotional rates, it explains:
The introductory rates will not apply if you have closed another credit card account with 
us within the 12 month period before applying for this account.
Taking this into account, I think Nationwide made the terms and conditions of the 
introductory offer clear to Mr M before he started his application. I note he would have also 
been required to accept the terms and conditions to complete his credit card application. 
Mr M had a credit card with Nationwide between March 2019 and May 2022. Therefore 
when he applied in January 2023, he wasnt eligible for the introductory offer. But this didnt 
mean he couldnt apply for the credit card and utilise the other features. 
I understand Mr M believes Nationwide have been misleading as the offers on his banking 
app appeared tailored to him. But I dont think this is the case. Ive seen the advertisement 
on Mr Ms banking app. It states the credit card is available to Nationwide members, and as 
hes been a member since 2007, he had the option to apply for the account. But theres 
nothing to suggest its personalised to his circumstances, or that the introductory offers are 
guaranteed. The application process linked to the website for completion and as explained 
was clear about eligibility.
Mr M says Nationwides system doesnt allow him to apply for a credit card now and they 
should have had a similar restriction in place when he made his application. At the time of 
Mr Ms application, he didnt have a credit card account with them, so he was able to 
proceed. And when he tried again, he was unable to do so because of his active credit card 
account. I dont agree that a restriction should be placed due to Mr Ms eligibility. Not 
everyone is looking to balance transfer due to a 0% introductory rate. It could be that a lower 
interest rate is offered than what a pre-existing customer is currently getting elsewhere. Or 
that they want to benefit from other features an account may offer.  
Whilst I appreciate Mr M would have liked Nationwide to highlight when a customer isnt 
eligible for the introductory offers, I wouldnt expect them to detail a customers account 
history during the application process. Generally, applications are initially processed 
remotely and it wouldnt be feasible to check all the specific account history for all customers 
that apply. If Mr M wanted to clarify his eligibility for the balance transfer offer, he could have 
contacted Nationwide to clarify with them which I cant see he did. 
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons explained I 
dont think Nationwide need to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman