DRN-3186096
The complaint
Mr P says the charges Santander UK Plc (Santander) applied for the use of his overdraft 
facility are unfair considering his personal circumstances. 
What happened
Mr P complained to Santander that he was being charged excessive overdraft fees and that 
he has struggled for years financially because of it. Santander said the charges were applied 
in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account and that no error had been made. 
Santander arranged for its financial support team to contact Mr P and conduct a review but 
Mr P declined all solutions until the outcome of his complaint with this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. Santander offered to partially 
settle Mr Ps complaint by off-setting £200 against the outstanding debt on his account which 
has since be closed and the debt transferred to an external company. 
Mr P declined Santanders offer  he would like £400 of fees waived and his credit history 
cleared of any adverse notifications. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr P has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts Santander charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Santanders various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ps account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr P was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Mr P fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that Santander did treat Mr P unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Mr Ps statements I cant see anything to 
suggest that Santander ought to have realised Mr P might have been experiencing financial 
difficulties prior to it being notified of this. 
Mr Ps statements show that Mr P was in credit far more than in overdraft and when Mr Ps 
account did become overdrawn this was rectified within a reasonable time frame with 
incoming credits. There were also significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr P wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Santander to any potential financial difficulty
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Ps account 
was being used. And I dont think that Santander treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably and 
this means that Im not upholding this complaint and Im not asking Santander to do anything 
more. 
But as Santander has offered a partial refund of fees to offset some of Mr Ps debt its up to 
Mr P to decide whether he now wishes to accept this offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint and Im not asking 
Santander UK Plc to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman