DRN-2883571
The complaint
 This complaint is about a portfolio of four buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages Mr J holds with Bank 
of Scotland plc (BOS). The main points of the complaint are, in summary, that BOS:
refused Mr Js request to capitalise mortgage arrears; and
paid outstanding freeholder charges, and then added the payments to the mortgage 
debt.
Mrs J (Mr Js mother) brings the complaint on his behalf.
There were other elements to the complaint, but an ombudsman colleague has issued a 
decision saying they were referred to us too late under our rules. Ive looked at that 
decision and I agree that the two issues Ive listed above are all that our rules allow us to 
consider.
 
What happened
 By way of a provisional decision earlier this month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that 
provisional decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The starting point here is that all of the mortgages here are BTL, and this is a commercial 
venture on Mr Js part. Thats not to say BOS doesnt have an obligation to treat Mr J fairly, 
but the test of what is regarded as fair when dealing with unregulated lending is very 
different from what would apply in the case of a residential mortgage. 
Capitalisation of arrears
Capitalisation of arrears is a concession, and an onerous one at that. It permanently 
increases the mortgage balance by the amount of the arrears, and commits the borrower to 
repaying that higher balance over the mortgage term, with all the extra interest that goes 
with it. That requires a higher contractual monthly payment than the consumer is already, by 
definition, struggling to pay.  
For that reason, lenders tend to have strict qualifying criteria; as an example, its not 
untypical for borrowers to be required to pay the existing contractual payment in full and on 
time for a minimum of twelve consecutive months before a lender will consider capitalising 
arrears. Even if that is achieved, it doesnt guarantee capitalisation will be approved; its 
merely a pre-condition before lenders will even consider it. 
In the case at hand, I wouldnt expect BOS to consider capitalising arrears on any of Mr Js 
mortgages until firstly, he had stabilised his finances to the point that he could show an 
unbroken record of full and timely payments for at least twelve months, and secondly, that 
he could demonstrate to BOS satisfaction the ability to meet the higher payments that would 
apply after capitalisation. I cant see that this was the case when the request was made.
Paying freeholder charges and debiting the mortgage accounts
Mr J has contrasted BOS unwillingness to capitalise his arrears with its willingness to debit 
the payments it made to his freeholders to the mortgage accounts. Both actions add to the 
mortgage balances, but other than that, theres no comparison between them. As I said the 
preceding section, capitalisation is a judgement call for a lender to make, only if its satisfied 
the borrowers finances are sufficiently stable to justify the concession. Payment of 
freeholder charges is about preserving the lenders security for the money thats owed to it.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Js mortgages. Having done so, Im satisfied 
these allow BOS to pay the ground rent as well as insurance, administrative and/or service 
charges and, I presume, legal costs. But this doesnt necessarily mean it was fair for it to do 
so in these circumstances. I would normally expect BOS to have paid the amounts asked for 
by the freeholders solicitors where forfeiture of the lease(s) is a serious possibility. 
But that shouldnt happen when there is just the threat of forfeiture. The issue has to have 
been to court or a relevant tribunal where either there is a judgement against the lessee (in 
this case, Mr J) for the sums claimed, or its been found that there has been a breach of the 
lease. Id expect BOS to know that, even if Mr J didnt. The relevant tribunal presently is the 
First-tier Tribunal (Property Chamber  Residential Property). Theres nothing in the 
available evidence to show a breach of any the leases was found by either a court or a 
tribunal, nor is there any evidence of a county court judgement showing that Mr J has been 
found liable to pay the sums claimed by the freeholder.
 
Due to the above, I dont think it was necessarily reasonable for BOS Plc to pay the charges 
it paid in the circumstances in which it paid them. But that doesnt mean it has to refund 
them automatically to Mr Js mortgage accounts, although I note some already have been. It 
could be that rather than paying something it shouldnt, BOS paid items sooner that it should 
have.
If BOS hadnt paid them, its likely the matters would have gone to a court or tribunal. So its 
possible it would have been found that Mr J had to pay these items  including any 
additional court or tribunal costs. 
If Mr J wants any payments that havent already been refunded returned to his mortgage 
accounts, he needs to show BOS the money wasnt owed by him. To do this, Mr J could take the matter to a tribunal or other relevant authority. Itll be for him to choose the most 
appropriate forum; its not our place to advise him.
If it is then found that some, or all of the money already paid to the freeholder wasnt due, 
but the freeholder isnt ordered to return it, then BOS would need to refund the required 
amounts back to the relevant mortgage account(s) as at the date(s) they were paid. It would 
also need to refund any mortgage interest on the amounts that were incorrectly paid. 
Its possible that the process to prove the ground rent and other items shouldnt have been 
paid could cost Mr J more than it would have done for him to defend any action brought by 
the freeholder. If this is the case, I dont think it would be fair for him to pay any additional 
amount. So if Mr J provides BOS with proof he has paid additional costs to prove his case, it 
would need to refund these to him, minus those costs that would have been incurred if the 
cases(s) had gone to court or a tribunal in the first place.
I gave the parties until 17 June 2021 to respond to my provisional decision; weve heard 
from Mrs J on behalf of Mr J.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 First of all, Im very sorry to learn of Mrs Js recent accident and I hope she soon recovers 
fully from her injuries. 
As to the complaint itself, Ive given a great deal of thought to Mrs Js email of 16 June 2021. 
Mrs J hasnt raised any new points. Instead, shes reiterated arguments shes made before 
about Mr Js situation, as well as her own and her husbands. 
Ive no doubt how difficult times have been for Mr J and his parents, and Im not 
unsympathetic. Nevertheless, these are points which have already been taken into account, 
by my fellow ombudsman in her decision on how much of the compliant we could consider, 
and by me in my provisional decision on the merits of the case. Because of that, Im not 
persuaded there any reasons for me to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
I will respond to one point Mrs J has made; she says she doesnt understand why I said in 
the provisional decision that I wouldnt go over past details. I did go through, and gave very 
careful consideration to, everything that both parties said and provided on the complaint. 
What I said was that I wouldnt be repeating, in the narrative of the provisional decision, all of 
the fine detail that both parties were already aware of. I apologise for not expressing myself 
as clearly as I should.
My final decision
 My final decision is that should Mr J provide proof from a relevant authority that any or all of 
the freeholder payments that remain unrefunded werent legitimately due, then provided the 
relevant authority doesnt also order the freeholder to refund him directly, BOS must:
refund to the relevant mortgage account any amounts the relevant authority has 
determined werent legitimately due as at the date these were paid;
refund any mortgage interest that accrued on these amounts; and
pay any extra costs Mr J paid in proving the amounts werent legitimately due over and 
above what they would have needed to pay in defending any action brought by the 
freeholder.I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman