DRN-2271852
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about their treatment by Metro Bank PLC when they wanted to 
redeem their mortgage. They would like compensation to reflect the stress they suffered and 
to encourage Metro to change its practices.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with Metro with, at the beginning of 2020, over £500,000.00 
outstanding. In January Mr P contacted the bank about redeeming their mortgage on 6 
February at the end of a fixed interest rate period. Metro told Mr and Mrs P that as a self-
redeeming mortgage they would need to provide source of wealth information to confirm that 
the source of the payment was legitimate. Mr and Mrs P provided some bank statements 
and Metro raised questions about these on 5 February as to whether they came from Mr Ps 
pension and Mr P said not. This led Metro to look for more information and to a series of 
conversations between Mr P and Metro on 11,12 and 13 February. Mr and Mrs P felt that 
Metro was invading their privacy and Mr P said that he couldnt give the bank the information 
it requested as it would breach a non-disclosure agreement (NDA). Although Mr P told 
Metro he had a document from another bank that showed the funds in his account were 
legitimate again he felt he couldnt disclose this because of the NDA. 
Mr and Mrs P made a payment to discharge the mortgage, but Metro responded to say that 
the funds would be returned to them without the charge on the property being discharged. 
Then Metro satisfied itself with the source of the payment and on 14 February told Mr and 
Mrs P that they would be releasing the charge on 17 February. Mr and Mrs P complained as 
to how they had been dealt with by Metro.
Metro responded by letter of 21 February. It said that as a self-redeeming mortgage, it was 
following its policy in ascertain the source of wealth. But it upheld part of Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint about the time that it took to approve the source of wealth and offered 
compensation of £100. Our investigator upheld the complaint. Although he didnt think that 
Metro Bank had been over invasive in the questions it raised, his view was that it could have 
handled the matter better and suggested that Metro pay compensation of £250. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and said that the level of compensation didnt reflect the emotional 
distress caused to Mrs P as she became ill and their celebratory plans were ruined. Nor 
would the £250 award lead to any positive change in how the bank dealt with customers. Mr 
and Mrs P felt that, although Metro was entitled to do checks on three months of bank 
statements, it wasnt entitled to hold them to ransom by refusing to release title deeds. taking 
two weeks to deal with it and writing to them in such terms to suggest they were engaged in 
criminal activity.
Metro disagreed saying in summary that it did all it could to complete the process as quickly 
as possible whilst satisfying itself that from a risk perspective that the funds being paid to 
repay the mortgage were legitimate
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P wanted to repay their mortgage from money they had in their account. But the 
size and manner of the redemption sparked an enquiry by Metro to confirm that the source 
of payment was legitimate. Metros interest in this arises from general regulatory concerns 
about money laundering and policies it sets in place to conform to these regulations and for 
the public interest. Unfortunately, this sometimes clashes with a customers rights to privacy 
and their right to do what they want with their own money which after all the bank is only 
holding for them.
Ive looked at all the relevant documentation. In this type of situation there is a necessary 
balancing act by the bank to satisfy itself of the legitimacy of the funds but to allow the 
customer to conduct their banking business. As I understand it Mr and Mrs P had this money 
in their account for 2.5 years and had already made two substantial overpayments during the 
currency of the fixed interest period to Metro from this account. Metro chose to look at what 
the original source of these funds was and came upon Mr Ps inability to release certain 
information because of an NDA. Eventually, it satisfied itself from the explanations provided 
by Mr and Mrs P and the documentation provided. 
The bank accepts that if it had asked more questions in January that it might have been able 
to resolve things earlier. I agree with that. I can see that there were several phone calls 
between Metro and Mr and Mrs P in February, and that Mrs P in particular was becoming 
quite upset and Im sure that was a major reason for this complaint. I accept that Metro in 
pursuing the original source of the funds was doing what it thought was right, but I can see 
that this was causing increased upset and Im pleased it was able to step back and review 
Mr and Mrs bank history and responses to satisfy itself. 
I believe that Metro could have handled it better and see that it has provided feedback for 
some of its staff. I know that Mr and Mrs P felt that the level of compensation awarded 
wouldnt affect how the bank operated and that it would learn nothing from it. We cant 
penalise a bank, but the information suggests that the complaint has sparked an internal 
review of how it dealt with the matter. 
I have to look at how it affected Mr and Mrs P. There was some delay in redemption, but the 
delay was for a very short period. However, I accept that a better assessment by Metro at 
the start would probably have brought the enquiry to an end quicker without engendering the 
degree of upset that it did.  Ive no doubt that an enquiry into a source of wealth can be 
upsetting to the law-abiding as the bank is looking to ascertain whether there has in fact 
been any criminality. Although that is linked to the nature of this type of enquiry and a bank 
is only performing a function required by regulation, in this case I believe that the enquiry 
could have been dealt with more expeditiously. Although I can see that Mr and Mrs P 
became quite upset, they would have had the comfort of knowing that, as the funds were 
legitimately acquired, the enquiry would end positively. I can detect no indication that it 
would conclude otherwise. So, weighing this up I believe that the award of £250 suggested 
by our investigator is fair and, on that basis, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr and Mrs P £250.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman