DRN-2178450
The complaint
Ms O complains on behalf of M, a limited company, that she wasnt able to access her 
business banking account and this caused losses for M.
What happened
Barclays told M it would close its bank account but the following month, June 2019, agreed 
to reopen the account, reinstate the overdraft and send a new card and pin.
M received the card and pin but a few days later Ms O found she wasnt able to log into Ms 
online or telephone banking to use the account. Ms O called Barclays and explained that she 
was going abroad the following day and wanted to make sure the account was in working 
order before she left. Barclays confirmed there were still blocks on the account and this was 
passed to a different department to have these removed. Once this was completed Ms O 
was transferred to another department to set up the internet banking.
Ms O was on a business trip abroad between June and August 2019. In October she 
contacted Barclays and raised a complaint, saying she hadnt had access to the account 
while she was away, and hadnt been able to make transfers during this time.
Barclays gave its response to the complaint in December 2019. It said the blocks had now 
been removed from the account and online banking had been reinstated to how it was 
before. It offered £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused but M didnt accept this.
Barclays carried out some further investigations. In January 2020 it said the signatory on Ms 
account had to be re-added which is why use of the account was restricted. Barclays said it 
should have explained this earlier. It increased the compensation to £600. 
Ms O was still unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. She said M couldnt pay 
staff or suppliers or run the business while the account was restricted, and she hadnt been 
able to go into branch as requested until she returned from abroad. Ms O said she was 
seeking compensation of £3,000 for each month M was without the full use of the account.
Our investigator said when Barclays considered the complaint in December 2019 and 
January 2020, it realised there were still blocks on the account which should have been 
removed, and a signatory needed to be added to the account. The issue with the signatory 
wouldnt have affected whether M could use the account to make transfers but the blocks 
would have affected use of the account. She felt Barclays had made errors and its service 
was below the standard expected. But she didnt think Barclays had been aware of the 
problem until October 2019 and she thought the compensation was reasonable. She said it 
wouldnt be fair to ask Barclays to pay compensation of £3,000 per month without evidence 
from M of losses of this amount.
Ms O didnt agree with the investigators view. She said she had contacted Barclays a 
number of times between July and September 2019 about the problems with the account. 
She provided a letter from the person M rented office space from and information from 
people who worked for her as evidence of the problems shed had running the business and 
paying staff.
Our investigator said there wasnt evidence of calls Ms O had made to Barclays during the 
period in question, or evidence of Ms losses. She asked Ms O if she could provide further 
information about losses. She also put Ms Os comments to Barclays, which said there was 
no record of further calls. The investigator said her view wouldnt change without further 
evidence. Ms O was still unhappy and so the complaint was passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms account had been stopped but Barclays agreed to reopen it and remove any blocks so 
that it could be used. This meant Ms O would have expected to be able to use the account  
and as the account was registered for online banking and the mobile app, it should have 
included access to those. Although she received a new card for the account and was able to 
use that, she had ongoing problems with accessing the account online or through the mobile 
app. This was a particular issue between June and August 2019 as she was abroad.
Its not entirely clear to me what the issues were with accessing the account. It seems Ms O 
was able to log into the account in June 2019 after speaking to Barclays. Barclays has said 
problems with log in at that time were due to incorrect details being entered and the access 
being locked. But it later accepted that blocks on the account hadnt been removed when 
they should have been and paid compensation for this  initially £200, later increased to 
£600. So I have considered whether this is enough, or whether it should pay more.
The first point Ms O makes is that she made numerous attempts to speak to Barclays so it 
was aware all the time  and not just from October 2019  of the problems. Barclays says it 
has searched its records and found no record of calls from her during this time. Our 
investigator asked Ms O if she had more evidence of calls she made, such as call history or 
a copy of a phone bill, but she wasnt able to provide more details. I can only make a 
decision on the evidence I have. Without further details, I dont think I have enough to 
conclude that other calls were made or when those happened.
Its still the case that there were errors by Barclays which affected access to the account. So 
I have considered what loss or harm this caused to M. Ms O has provided some evidence, 
which Ive considered carefully. Ive seen, for example, screenshots of some messages with 
individuals who had not been paid for work. But as our investigator explained, to 
compensate for the substantial losses M is claiming, wed need to see evidence of the loss 
and what caused it. The evidence provided is very limited.
I have no doubt problems with access to a bank account would cause difficulties. Our 
investigator asked M for further evidence and explained the type of evidence that would be 
helpful but I have little information about Ms trading, such as details of its income before 
June 2019 compared with the period from June onwards. Even if there was a loss of income, 
that could have been caused by other factors. Id need to see evidence that any loss was 
caused by the problems with accessing the account rather than other issues. 
Its for M to prove its losses and I dont think the evidence provided is enough to show a loss 
of £3,000 per month (or indeed any specific amount) over the period in question. So in my 
judgment it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Barclays to pay that level of compensation.Having said that, I accept that the issues with the bank would have caused some 
inconvenience for M in running its business. But, based on the limited information available, I 
think the compensation of £600 already paid is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman