DRN-3453039
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as F has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned
down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr S, a director of F, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf through a representative. For
ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments of the representative as being those of
F.
What happened
F held business interruption insurance with Aviva. F claimed on its policy after its business 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic.
Aviva turned down Fs claim as they didnt think it was covered under the policy. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, F brought its complaint to our service. It thought that
various parts of the policy should provide cover.
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He explained 
why he didnt think the parts of the policy F had referred to provided cover for the 
circumstances of its claim.
F asked for an ombudsmans decision in relation to the extension in its policy which covers 
business interruption or interference as a result of an accident which had caused a defect in 
its sanitary arrangements.
F said the definition of an accident is an unfortunate event that happens unexpectedly and 
unintentionally. F therefore thought that Covid-19 was an accident causing a defect in the 
sanitary arrangements at its premises.
F said the dictionary definition of sanitation was the act or process of making sanitary (of or 
relating to health). It said the Government Regulations were put in place for public health 
reasons, indicating that there were insufficient public health measures in place. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
F has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going to
address them all in this decision but will instead focus on what I see as the central issues to
this complaint. As F has asked for a decision on the extension relating to sanitary 
arrangements I will focus on that in my decision.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Fs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Fs claim.
The relevant extension provides cover for business interruption or interference following:
any accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at The 
Premises
For this to provide cover the interruption or interference to Fs business would need to be 
following an accident which caused a defect in the sanitary arrangements at Fs premises. I 
dont intend to make a finding on whether Covid-19 would be considered an accident, 
because even if it was Im not persuaded that it caused a defect in the drains or other 
sanitary arrangements at Fs premises.  
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, the case of
Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & AXA Insurance
Designated Activity Company [2021] IEHC 263 (Brushfield). This case took place in the 
Irish courts, but in the absence of a comparable English case, I feel it is useful to consider 
the points made in terms of considering how an English court might decide this point.
The judge said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves some element of deficiency 
or fault. Ive noted Fs point that it thinks the Government Regulations were put into place 
due to insufficient public health measures, but Im not persuaded that the Covid-19 
pandemic could be said to have caused a deficiency or fault in the drains or sanitary 
arrangements at Fs premises because I dont think the normal operation of a business 
would be considered a defect or fault. Therefore, I think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably 
when concluding that this didnt cover the circumstances of Fs claim. 
I recognise this isnt the answer F was hoping for but, having considered things very
carefully, I dont believe that I can fairly require Aviva to pay Fs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman