DRN-2496995
The complaint
Mr D complains that Vanquis Bank Limited sold his credit card debt fraudulently and the 
Notice of Assignment (NOA) was signed by a person who doesnt work at Vanquis and so he 
believes it was forged. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr D complained to Vanquis that his credit card debt had been sold 
improperly to a debt collection agency, LPIL. The debt was sold in September. He said 
communication he had received concerning the debt quoted several different company 
names for this agency e.g. L, L Ltd, LFL, LPIL. Mr D said no one at Vanquis could tell him 
which specific company had bought the debt. He said Vanquis was in breach of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines. He was aware Vanquis had a right to sell the debt but 
that it should go to a proper company. He said Vanquis had breached his account terms and 
conditions. 
Mr D said further evidence that this sale was conducted fraudulently was the letter he had 
received after the debt was sold. Mr D received the NOA from Vanquis on 15 October and it 
was signed by a Mr RT. After doing his own research Mr D said there was no such person at 
Vanquis. He said there was a Mr ST. He said the letter must have been forged and LPIL was 
not legitimate. 
In its final response Vanquis said it was satisfied it had acted correctly with the sale of Mr Ds 
account to the debt collection agency.
Mr D disagreed and brought his complaint to this service. He said he was unhappy the debt 
had been sold improperly to a debt collection agency. He wanted to know which company 
the debt had been sold to and why the name of the person who signed the debt sale was Mr 
RT when there was no Mr RT working there. He wanted to know why it was common 
practice to put a different name on the notice of assignment. 
Our investigator concluded Vanquis hadnt done anything wrong. She said Mr RT is 
someone that works at Vanquis but couldnt release further details because it was 
commercially sensitive. And she was satisfied the two letters Mr D received dated 15 
October explained which company had bought the debt. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said the investigator hadnt been impartial and took Vanquis at its 
word. He said shed said the debt was sold to L but there is no such company as L.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr D but having done so I wont be asking 
Vanquis to do anything further. 
Ive read in the file Mr D has also brought a complaint about our service concerning the way 
the complaint has been dealt with as well as additional comments relating to the debt 
collection agency which has led to a complaint against it. I can see that these have been 
dealt with separately. In this decision I will only look at the merits of Mr Ds complaint against 
Vanquis.
There is also communication in the file with Vanquis and Mr D relating to additional 
complaint points concerning a letter of authority which, as agreed with Vanquis, I will 
respond to in this decision.  
Mr D is concerned Vanquis has sold his debt fraudulently and one reason for this is 
confusion over the name of the business that bought the debt. Vanquis sent a notice of 
assignment to Mr D on 15 October 2019. It said Vanquis had sold Mr Ds account to LPIL. 
The letter said this meant Vanquis no longer owned Mr Ds account and it was now owned 
by LPIL. The letter went on to say that LFL had been appointed by LPIL to manage the 
account. It said Mr D should contact LFL to discuss repayment of the account. It included 
contact details of LFL. The email address showed the domain name of LG. The letter went 
on to mention LPIL a further two times. 
I can understand why Mr D might be confused by LPILs business names as three different 
versions of it appear. But I can reassure Mr D that both LPIL and LFL are authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) so Mr D need not be concerned that 
these are not legitimate businesses. And it is not unusual for the new owner of the debt, in 
this case LPIL, to appoint another company, even within its own business, in this case LFL, 
to manage the account. 
Mr D had numerous phone calls to Vanquis and he said it wasnt able to say who had bought 
the debt. I listened to a recording of four calls. I do think the operators could have explained 
to Mr D the relationship between LPIL and LFL better rather than simply referring to L. But 
Im satisfied the letter Vanquis sent to Mr D was very clear as to which company bought the 
debt. 
Mr D has also queried the name of the person who signed the NOA. As this is a reference to 
a specific named employee of Vanquis I shall refer to him as Mr RT  these are not his real 
initials. Mr D said the NOA was signed by Mr RT but through his own research he knows 
there is no such person with that name at Vanquis, but there is a Mr ST. Mr D has also said 
the letter from Vanquis was also forged and not sent with the proper authority. He said LPIL 
didnt have permission to write letters on behalf of Vanquis. 
Vanquis has confirmed to this service that LPIL did have permission to write the letter to Mr 
D. This letter is part of the process of an agreement between Vanquis and LPIL. Its not my 
role to comment on the business processes of an organisation. Vanquis has also explained 
to this service that Mr RT is definitely an employee. Im satisfied that Vanquis would know 
whether a letter sent by LPIL on its behalf was forged or not and it says it is not forged. It has 
also explained to me the sensitive commercial reasons why the NOA is signed from Mr RT 
and Im satisfied there is no cause for concern. 
Mr D is concerned about our impartiality and that weve just taken Vanquis at its word. Im 
sorry Mr D feels this way. Id like to reassure him that I have been impartial. There is no 
evidence that the debt was sold improperly and while it could have been clearer with Mr D 
over the phone Im satisfied Vanquis has not acted improperly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman