DRN-4274757
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr H was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. He paid an advance payment of £5,481 and the agreement was for £49,235.74 
over 48 months; with 47 monthly repayments of £675, and an optional final payment of 
£21,591.10.
Mr H said that, in September/October 2021, he noticed a strange smell in the car, but the 
supplying dealership couldnt find anything wrong. And, over the winters of 2021/2022 and 
2022/2023, the supplying dealership investigated his complaints that the windscreen kept 
steaming up. He said that, while the dealership accepted the level of condensation was 
unusual, they couldnt find any reasons for this.
So, Mr H complained to BMWFS. But they didnt uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this, he 
brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator explained that condensation could be caused by a number of different 
reasons. But, as there was no evidence there was a fault with the car, the investigator said 
he couldnt conclude that, in this instance, the condensation was as a result of the car being 
faulty at the point of supply. So, he didnt think BMWFS needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the car must have some kind of a leak, and just because this 
hasnt been found, this doesnt mean it doesnt exist. So, he thought he should be able to 
return the car for a full refund. And hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
BMWFS are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless BMWFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr H to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr H took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask BMWFS to put this right.
Ive seen that, in an email to BMWFS dated 18 May 2023, Mr H explained the misting up 
was reported in the first winter of purchasing the car  it has continued to happen through 
the winter of 2021/2022, stopped and then started again in the winter we have just had 
(2922/2023) [sic].
Mr H has provided a large amount of photographic and video evidence which shows 
condensation in the car. The vast majority of this evidence shows the car in the dark (early 
mornings, evenings, and at night) and/or in wintery conditions (with low temperatures 
indicated on the cars display).
Condensation is caused by warmer air coming into contact with a cold surface (such as car 
windows), cooling down quickly, and turning into liquid droplets of water. Its very common in 
cars, especially when the outside temperature is substantially lower than inside the car i.e. 
during winter, early mornings, at night, etc. And condensation can happen either when the 
car is in use, or when its been left unused for a period of time, for example overnight.
Given this, while Im satisfied Mr H has evidenced the car suffers from condensation under 
certain conditions, his evidence doesnt show this happens in conditions where condensation 
wouldnt normally be expected, or that the condensation is caused or exacerbated by a fault 
or other issue with the car.
Its not disputed the car has been inspected by the dealership on multiple occasions, but 
theyve found no faults. And they consider the condensation to be a normal occurrence, and 
not caused by a manufacturing defect.
Whats more, Mr H hasnt provided any independent evidence to show theres a fault with 
the car thats causing excessive condensation, or that any such fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply.
As such, and while I appreciate Mr H has found the situation frustrating, Im not satisfied 
there was a fault with the car when it was supplied to Mr H thats causing the condensation. 
So, I wont be asking BMWFS to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman