DRN-4322660
The complaint
Mr B complains Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) provided him with a 
loan without looking at his bank statements  had it done so, Shelby wouldve discovered a 
recently granted loan and gambling transactions.  
Mr B also says that Shelby hounded him to complete the application and had it not done so 
he wouldnt have proceeded with the loan. 
What happened
Mr B was granted one loan by Shelby on 3 July 2023 for £250 and he would have to make 
six monthly repayments of £81.71. Mr B repaid the loan early on 10 July 2023.  
Shelby considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide the loan based on proportionate checks. Unhappy with this response, Mr B referred 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said, Shelby had 
carried out proportionate checks before the loan was approved which demonstrated Mr B 
could afford his repayments. 
She also said that Shelby wasnt aware  from the credit search results that Mr B had 
recently been advanced another loan. Finally, she didnt think, after listening to calls 
between Mr B and Shelby that it had done anything wrong with regards to the contact with 
Mr B before the loan was advanced. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. As no agreement has been 
reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Bs complaint.
 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as those reached by the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. 
Before the loan was approved, Shelby asked Mr B for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £2,500 per month. Shelby also says this amount was cross referenced 
with a credit reference agency for its accuracy. Having done so, for its affordability 
assessment it reduced Mr Bs monthly income to £2,273.
Mr B declared monthly outgoings of £640. However, as part of the application process, 
Shelby overlaid what Mr B had declared about his expenditure with data from two different 
sources and then if needed, made adjustments to the information Mr B had provided. Firstly, 
it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data and secondly, it used information from Mr Bs 
credit search (which Ill go into in more detail below). And having done so, Shelby made an 
adjustment. 
It increased Mr Bs monthly outgoings to £1,122, which still left £1,151 each month to enable 
Mr B to make the repayment of around £82. Based solely on this data the loan looked 
affordable. 
Before the loan was approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here 
that although Shelby carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything in any of the results that 
wouldve indicated that Mr B was having immediate financial difficulties, for example it knew 
there were not any insolvency markers, defaults or debt management plans. There also 
wasnt anything within the results that indicated Mr B was reliant on these sorts of loans (or 
home credit loans) because the report showed it that Mr B hadnt opened any of these 
accounts within the last six months. 
Mr B has said that a couple of weeks before this loan was approved, he had recently been 
advanced another loan, of £1,500 by a different lender. But this wasnt reflected in either the 
information Mr B declared or the results of Shelbys credit check results. The credit checks showed outstanding debt of £321. There could be a couple of reasons why this recently 
granted loan by another provider hadnt yet shown up in the credit search. 
Firstly, the lender may not have yet update the credit reference agencies  because this can 
take up to 45 days to filter through onto records. Secondly, the lender may not report to the 
same credit reference agency as Shelby use to conduct the search. 
Whatever the reason, Im satisfied that Shelby wasnt aware of this other loan and so it 
wouldnt have been reasonable to have expected it to have factored those repayments into 
its affordability assessment. 
In my view, just thinking about the credit check results these wouldnt have led Shelby to 
either have carried out further checks or prompted it to have declined Mr Bs application.  
Overall, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
Shelby to believe that it needed to verify the information Mr B had provided  such as for 
example reviewing bank statements. This wouldve been disproportionate for Shelby to have 
considered them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for Shelby to have relied on the 
information Mr B gave it and what it received from the credit reference agency which showed 
he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr B was having financial difficulties or that 
the loan would be unsustainable for him. 
I am therefore not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Shelbys decision to lend.
Other considerations 
Mr B says he was hounded by Shelby to complete the loan application and had it not done 
that than he wouldnt have been granted the loan. I can see from the records provided by 
Shelby that between 30 June 2023 and 3 July 2023 it sent three emails and six text 
messages to Mr B. 
Ive not seen a copy of the emails, but these appear to have the title Complete your 
application.  Assuming the emails contained similar content to those of the text messages - 
which told Mr B he had a provisional loan application and there was a link to complete it. I 
can appreciate why Mr B may have felt hounded, but Shelby, in my view, was just letting him 
know that hed made a loan application but hadnt yet completed it. 
Mr B also spoke to Shelby on three occasions on 3 July 2023 and Ive listened to these calls. 
Having done so, there isnt anything that I can hear that leads me to believe Shelby 
persuaded him to take out the loan. Indeed, for the first call it was Mr B calling to find out 
what had happened with the application. So, I cant say Shelby was wrong to have given 
Mr B this loan or that it was wrong to have answered his enquires on these calls. 
I understand what Mr B says about how these text messages and emails made him feel and 
he has told the Financial Ombudsman about his health problems at the time he took his loan 
 I do hope things have now improved for him. But as Mr B didnt declare this to Shelby at 
the point he applied for the loan, Shelby couldnt make any adjustments to either its 
communication or the way it dealt with Mr B. 
And I understand that seeing the record on his credit file is not helpful for him. But I also 
have to consider that a loan was taken and granted and so Shelby is entitled to record an accurate reflection of how the loan account was repaid. And so while I know Mr B will be 
understandably disappointed by this, I cant ask Shelby to remove the record.   
And, as the adjudicator pointed out, even if I were to decide the loan ought to not have been 
granted (to be clear I have not concluded this) then the redress wouldve been to have 
removed adverse payment information from the credit file rather than removing the entire 
record. 
Mr B has told us that he took another loan to repay the one he had with Shelby. Ive not seen 
any evidence of this. But accepting that this did happen doesnt mean I can fairly hold 
Shelby liable for that application or any additional costs he may have incurred as I dont think 
Shelby was wrong to have granted the loan in the first place. 
Overall, Ive carefully considered everything that Mr B and Shelby has provided and, in this 
case, Im not able to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I do accept this decision will be disappointing 
for him, but I do hope he understands why I have reached the conclusions that I have. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman