DRN-3719487
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given to him by Prism Financial Advice Limited (Prism) to 
transfer the benefits from a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, an 
accompanying additional voluntary contribution (AVC) policy and a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) he held to a personal pension plan (PPP). He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and has caused him a financial loss.
Mr S is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr S.
What happened
Mr S was a member of a DB scheme while working for a previous employer. He was made 
redundant in 2013 and Prism has said it was engaged by his former employer to provide 
independent financial advice to those affected. This was when Prism says Mr S was first 
introduced to it. Prism has provided evidence that it gave financial advice to Mr S in 2013 
and 2015, mainly relating to savings and investments, and that it managed investments on 
his behalf in the years after this advice.
In 2018 Mr S contacted Prism with a view to discussing his pension and retirement needs. 
Prism has said that Mr S was interested in transferring his DB scheme benefits to an 
alternative arrangement that better suited his needs and objectives.
Prism completed a fact find to gather information about Mr S circumstances and objectives. 
It recorded that Mr S was 54, divorced and in good health. He had two grown children who 
were not financially dependent on him. He owned his own home, with no outstanding 
mortgage and also had a rental property with a mortgage of approximately £38,000 
outstanding. But this mortgage wasnt due to be repaid until 2038 and Mr S indicated he 
intended to potentially sell this rental property in the near future, clearing the amount 
outstanding and leaving a surplus. He had no other significant debts.
Mr S monthly total income (including rental income) was recorded as exceeding his 
outgoings by £1,385. Mr S had savings and cash reserves of approximately £58,000, ISAs 
and other investments totalling £222,500 and an endowment policy, maturing in August 
2019, worth approximately £28,000.
Mr S held his DB scheme, which had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£272,482.60, an accompanying AVC policy, with a transfer value of £32,829, and a SIPP, 
with a transfer value of approximately £27,700. The AVC and SIPP being defined 
contribution (DC) arrangements.
The fact find recorded that Mr S planned to retire at age 55 as his job involved a lot of 
travelling. And he expected to need an income of £2,000 net of tax, per month from his 
provisions. It also said though that Mr S would at least reduce his hours to part time from his 
55th birthday and that no final decision had been made about retirement.
The notes detailed that Mr S was aware of the benefits offered by the DB scheme which hed 
be giving up but was interested in looking at more flexible alternatives, in particular phased 
drawdown. This would allow him to retire at his target age and take the pension he needed - 
noting the pension the DB scheme would provide at that time would be insufficient at age 55.
It also said he had no use for the spouses benefits offered by the DB scheme, as he was 
single, but an alternative would allow him to potentially leave a lump sum for his children, 
which was his preference. And I can see Mr S wrote in one of the questionnaires he 
completed that his primary concern for leaving the DB scheme was the loss of the pension 
fund in the event of my death and my children would not benefit.
Prism also recorded that Mr S had no need to release capital from his pension at that time 
but that he could require an unknown amount of capital from his total provisions if he moved 
home in the future, which he was considering doing in the next 2  4 years.
Prism also carried out an assessment of Mr S attitude to risk (ATR). This concluded that 
Mr S attitude to risk was moderate / adventurous. But, the documents indicate, after 
discussions between Prism and Mr S, whilst it was agreed this was an appropriate approach 
in respect of his investments, Prism suggested, and Mr S agreed, that a cautious approach 
to the pension was more appropriate, given he intended to retire under a year later.
On 29 October 2018 Prism advised Mr S to transfer the benefits due under the DB scheme 
and Mr S two DC schemes to a personal pension. The suitability report explained in 
summary that the reasons for recommending the transfer of the DB scheme were that it 
would provide Mr S the flexibility he needed to take income in line with his requirements, 
allowed the full remaining fund to be left to his children in the event of his death and gave 
him the opportunity to be more proactive in how the money was invested. So, Prism said it 
met Mr S objectives and needs. In terms of the transfer of the DC schemes, it 
acknowledged that similar freedoms were already available under the existing 
arrangements. But said that consolidation of pension benefits had been desired as part of 
the process.
I understand that the transfers were completed in line with the recommendations made.
Prism has provided evidence that around January 2020 Mr S chose to transfer his 
investments and pension to the control of another financial adviser. But the evidence 
suggested he did so on good terms.
In July 2021, Mr S representatives complained to Prism on his behalf about the advice it had 
provided to transfer his pensions. In summary they said the advice was negligent and 
unsuitable, particularly for someone with no investment experience or capacity for loss, 
which his representatives indicated they thought applied to Mr S. They also said Prism 
hadnt properly taken into account Mr S circumstances and had led him to believe hed 
receive a better return by transferring than he would have by remaining invested in his 
existing pensions.
Prism rejected the complaint. It said that the allegations were untrue and not supported by 
the facts and documents available and it considered that the advice given was appropriate.Mr S referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and said she 
felt Prism should be required to pay compensation. She felt that the available information 
indicated that the level of return that wouldve been needed for the new arrangement to 
provide equivalent benefits to the DB scheme in retirement was unrealistic. So, Mr S was 
always likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value in retirement. She 
didnt think Mr S needed the flexibility provided by transferring as he had other provisions 
available to meet his income needs  also noting that his retirement plans were not 
confirmed. And in any event, she noted Mr S wouldve been able to take benefits early under 
the DB scheme.
Prism did not accept the Investigators opinion. It said that Mr S had been very clear he 
intended to retire at age 55 and what his income needs were. It said that the Investigator had 
ignored the fact that retiring early under the DB scheme would not have met these income 
needs and that Mr S had indicated a potential need to use some of his other provisions to 
help with a house purchase in the short term after the advice. It also said the Investigator 
had ignored Mr S preference to leave the pension as a lump sum to his children in the event 
of his death. So, it remained of the opinion that the advice it had provided was suitable as it 
had allowed Mr S to meet his needs and objectives, which he couldnt have done had he not 
transferred. 
The complaint was subsequently passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022 explaining that I also intended to uphold Mr S 
complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The DB scheme transfer
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Prism should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Prism said in response to our Investigators opinion that Mr S had no interest in remaining in 
the DB scheme or purchasing an annuity, was determined to retire at age 55 and was going 
to do this and that he was determined to transfer to secure a financial legacy for his children. 
And Prism said that the transfer allowed Mr S to meet these objectives, so it thought the 
advice was suitable. And given Mr S objectives Prism has suggested that comparisons to 
what Mr S couldve received at age 65 are irrelevant as he was always going to retire before 
this. And also that comparisons to what he couldve taken at age 55 under the DB scheme 
are largely meaningless as well, since he never intended to purchase an annuity and would 
not accept the actuarial reduction the DB scheme would apply if he took benefits at that 
point.
Firstly, I dont agree that the comparisons are not important as they demonstrate the value of 
the benefits Mr S was due under his existing scheme. So, I will be considering these.
Im also not sure that I agree with Prism that Mr S objectives were set in stone to the extent 
it has now suggested  which is bordering on that he would always have insisted on 
transferring, regardless of what it said.Im satisfied it is true Mr S had experience with investments  contrary to what his 
representatives have suggested. Ive seen evidence of the previous advice hed taken in 
relation to this and that he held a number of investments at the point of the transfer advice. 
So, he wasnt inexperienced. But the information also shows that Mr S sought and took 
advice in relation to these investments. This doesnt strike me as someone unwilling to 
accept advice  in fact I think it shows the contrary, that he valued advice before making 
decisions. And he sought advice from Prism here about his retirement planning.
In the fact find document the adviser made notes. These said that Mr S had been 
considering and planning for retirement for some time. The notes did say that Mr S 
planned to retire at 55 but they also go on to say that he would reduce to part time hours 
as a minimum and that hed made no final decision with final underlined. And it said that 
Mr S wished to consider alternatives available for his pension arrangements. The notes are 
clear that no final decision had been taken on retirement. They suggest Mr S was intending 
to reduce his hours, but not, in my opinion, that he was always going to retire at age 55 or 
that he would not entertain any discussion around alternatives, if those alternatives were in 
his best interests.
I acknowledge that Mr S wrote, in his own words, that his primary concern for potentially 
leaving the DB scheme was the loss of the pension fund in the event of my death and my 
children would not benefit. But making his concern clear isnt the same, in my view, as 
being determined to take a course of action regardless of the consequences  as Prism 
again suggested in its response to the Investigators opinion.
I dont doubt that Mr S was interested in retiring early and in potential alternative death 
benefits. But the information Ive seen doesnt lead me to think that he was unwilling to 
consider alternative solutions. Particularly given that he sought advice from Prism on this 
subject. So, I think relevant comparisons of alternatives were still important here, despite 
Prisms arguments to the contrary.
And in any event, Prism wasnt there to just transact what Mr S might have been interested 
in or thought he wanted. The advisers role was to recommend what was in his best 
interests. So, Ill now consider the advice with that in mind.
Financial viability
Prism has said that Mr S was aware of the benefits he was giving up and that the transfer 
wasnt recommended on the basis hed be better off financially. And it has said that his other 
provisions gave him the capacity to accept this loss.
Overall, I agree it appears Mr S was broadly aware of the risks involved with transferring 
from his DB scheme and that the suitability report doesnt suggest that the investment 
returns received by transferring would exceed those required to provide benefits equivalent 
to the DB scheme. So, improving the overall value of the benefits doesnt appear to have 
been a driving reason for the advice. But Mr S being aware of the risks isnt a substitute for 
appropriate advice.I would also add that I think Prism did make a statement that mayve led Mr S to think hed 
potentially be better off. It said one of the advantages for transferring was that the transfer 
value takes into consideration the value of a spouses pension which is not applicable to you, 
so by transferring you are gaining value in your pension funds. But I dont agree that by 
transferring Mr S was gaining value to his pension funds. The benefits under the DB 
scheme were guaranteed, at no risk or additional cost to Mr S. The CETV was the transfer 
offer the scheme administrators were willing to make but, as Ill explain, this wasnt the cost 
of equivalent benefits. Taking the CETV meant Mr S had to achieve growth in his fund just to 
provide equivalent benefits. So, to say he gained value was in my view misleading.
And ultimately while improving the benefits may not have been the key reason for the 
advice, the benefits under the DB scheme were guaranteed. Mr S mayve been considering 
or even drawn to alternatives, but it was still important that the value of those benefits was 
made clear and that consideration was given to whether giving those up was in his best 
interests  even if he mayve had capacity to lose some of the benefits.
Within the suitability report Prism included a transfer value comparator (TVC). This 
compared the CETV with the estimated cost to Mr S of acquiring a policy that would provide 
the same guaranteed benefits as the DB scheme, at the scheme retirement age of 65. The 
suitability report from October 2018 said that the same benefits were likely to cost Mr S 
£411,516.36 which was £139,033.76 more than the CETV. So essentially, hed need to 
increase his fund size by that amount by age 65, to purchase the same benefits.
The suitability report also included the critical yield (CY)  the annual investment return 
needed from the new arrangement to allow Mr S to purchase a policy providing benefits of 
equal value to his existing scheme. The report said that to purchase equivalent benefits at 
age 65, assuming Mr S took the maximum available tax-free cash (TFC) and a reduced 
pension, the rate needed was 5.69%. And to purchase equivalent benefits at age 55  again 
assuming he took maximum TFC and a reduced pension  the CY was 9.81%. No CY was 
included for either retirement age option to show what return would be needed if Mr S opted 
against TFC and took the full pension available under the DB scheme. But it is reasonable to 
assume that those required returns wouldve been even higher.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017 and is 3.8% for 10 years to retirement  the case if 
Mr S retired at 65. And the relevant rate was 2.3% for less than one full year to retirement  
as wouldve been the case if Mr S retired at 55. The share returns that were used to compile 
these discount rates wouldnt have been significantly different by the time of transfer and, if 
anything, the bond returns would have got lower. So, I think it still gives an approximate 
guide to the upper end of potential future returns.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, the 
cautious attitude to risk Prism recorded for Mr S in relation to his pension arrangements and 
the relevant terms to retirement. And, having done so, I think the TVC and critical yields 
demonstrate that Mr S was always likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall 
value than the DB scheme at retirement, be that age 65 or 55, as a result of transferring and 
investing in line with that attitude to risk. So, from a financial viability perspective, I dont 
think transferring was in Mr S best interests.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits  which Prism has suggested here. So, Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Prism has said that Mr S needed an income of £2,000 net of tax per month in retirement and 
that he was going to retire at age 55. While he couldve taken benefits under the DB scheme 
at age 55 this would only have given him a maximum starting pension of £6,847 per year, if 
he didnt take TFC. So that wouldnt have been enough to meet his needs. And it has said 
that Mr S intended to move home in the next two to four years which would require some 
additional capital. So, it has suggested he needed to keep his savings and investments for 
that purpose. And so, it says he needed the flexibility provided by transferring, to drawdown 
income, from age 55.
Ive thought carefully about this. But I dont think Mr S needed to transfer his DB pension at 
the point of the advice.
As Ive already said, the fact find indicates that, while Mr S was considering retiring at age 
55, he was also considering reducing his hours and continuing to work part time. If hed done 
the latter, hed have continued to receive a wage, albeit at a reduced level. That wouldve 
provided at least some of the income that he needed. So, it wasnt known with certainty how 
much Mr S would need to draw at age 55.
But whether this was the full £2,000 a month or not, Mr S had significant other assets 
available, from which he could potentially have drawn the income he needed. He had 
savings, an endowment that was shortly due to mature and several hundred thousand 
pounds in investments. Given the size of these assets and Mr S apparent income needs, 
which were modest in comparison, drawing an income from these assets ought to have been 
possible until he reached the normal retirement age of the DB scheme. At which point he 
couldve taken a full pension, quoted in the suitability report as starting at £14,132 per year, 
which wouldve continued to escalate in retirement. And when supplemented by his state 
pension at age 67, wouldve met his retirement income needs. And this wouldve been 
guaranteed for his entire life, not dependent on investment performance.
Prism has said that Mr S intended to move home and has suggested he wanted to retain his 
other provisions for that purpose, in case he needed additional capital. But drawing an 
income from his other provisions, for several years until a definitive decision about a move 
was made, wouldnt have depleted them. And a house move wasnt guaranteed. Nothing 
had been set in motion, from what I can tell. There was no definitive timescale for this. And, 
the total cost was entirely unknown as well. So, I dont think the potential of a future house 
move meant he could not have used some of his other provisions, outside of the DB 
scheme, to fund his income needs, at least to begin with.Had he then gone ahead with a move, and felt he needed additional resources, Mr S 
couldve revisited either accessing his DB scheme  as the actuarial reduction would not 
have been as much several years later  or transferring. But given his overall financial 
situation, in particular the other resources available to him, I dont think Mr S had a genuine 
need for flexibility in his pension arrangements at the time of the advice as I think this was a 
decision that couldve been postponed at least until the potential house move.
And again, the DB scheme provided valuable guaranteed benefits  an income that was 
guaranteed and would continue to escalate. So overall I dont think surrendering these 
benefits for flexibility was in his best interests at the time of the advice. And the level of 
uncertainty around these income needs makes it difficult, in my view, to overcome the 
starting assumption that transferring was unsuitable.
Death benefits
As Ive mentioned I can see that Mr S expressed concerns that, in the event of his death, the 
pension fund would be lost and would not benefit his children. And that this had led him to 
consider transferring his pension.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr S. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr S about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement.
I understand that the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme was no longer of use to 
Mr S as he was divorced. And his children were not due a dependents pension. But the 
benefits due to him under the DB scheme were still guaranteed and extremely valuable. I 
dont think surrendering these to obtain alternate death benefits was necessarily appropriate.
Also, the sum remaining on death under the personal pension wouldve been dependent on 
investment performance and would be reduced by any income Mr S drew. And given Prisms 
recommendation was based around Mr S drawing an income from the pension from age 55, 
this was an important consideration.
At the very end of the suitability report, Prism included a future retirement income analysis. 
This showed, what would happen to the total pension fund if Mr S began drawing £24,000 
per year (his target income), increasing in line with the retail price index, from the personal 
pension from age 55 onwards. And what this demonstrated was that, if Mr S began doing so 
and was able to achieve investment growth within the pension of 5%, that the pension fund 
would be entirely exhausted by age 69. Given the discount rates Ive referred to and the fact 
that Mr S was considered cautious in respect of his pension investment, its entirely 
possible that 5% wouldnt have been achieved, so the fund wouldve been depleted even 
earlier.
The fact find recorded that Mr S was in good health. And Ive seen nothing to suggest his life 
expectancy was likely to be lower than normal. So, given what the future retirement income 
analysis showed, it seems that the pension fund was likely to be entirely depleted, even if 
Mr S passed away several years prior to his average life expectancy. In which case it 
wouldnt have provided a legacy to Mr S children. And wouldnt have met this apparent 
objective. And I find it interesting to note that this wasnt mentioned in the section regarding 
the disadvantages of transferring within the suitability report.In any event, Prism should not have encouraged Mr S to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
And, if Mr S wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt depend on investment 
returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Prism shouldve 
instead explored life insurance. But I cant see that this was discussed at the time of the 
advice to transfer.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the loss of guaranteed benefits, and the likely decrease of overall retirement 
benefits for Mr S  particularly as it may not have left the legacy that Mr S was apparently 
concerned with. So, I dont think that transferring for this reason was in his best interests. 
And I dont think that insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control
Another reason indicated for the transfer being suitable was that it allowed Mr S to be more 
proactive and have greater control over how his pension was invested. But while I 
acknowledge that Mr S had some investment experience, again the information Ive seen 
indicates that he tended to depend on financial advice in relation to this. So overall Im not 
sure that greater control was a genuine objective for Mr S  rather it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Suitability of investments
Prism recommended a specific pension provider and fund to Mr S. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable, it follows that 
I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because I 
think Mr S should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr S. But again Prism 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr S might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr S needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr S to transfer his DB scheme benefits was 
suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, 
Mr S was always likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no 
other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.
I dont think Mr S needed flexibility to meet his income needs at the point of the advice as he 
had other provisions available and at the very least a decision about this couldve been 
delayed several years to coincide with a potential change in circumstances (house move). I 
also dont think the alternate death benefits meant that the transfer was in Mr S best 
interests, particularly given what Ive seen about when the fund was likely to be depleted and 
that this meant the legacy Mr S was concerned about may not have been achieved.
So, I think Prism shouldve advised Mr S to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr S would've gone ahead anyway, even if Prism 
advised him not to transfer.As I mentioned earlier, Prism has indicated it considered Mr S had already largely decided 
his course of action. But for the reasons Ive already covered I dont agree. And having 
considered this carefully Im not persuaded that Mr S wouldve insisted on transferring out of 
the DB scheme, against Prisms advice.
I accept that Mr S had investment experience and that his starting point may even have 
been that he thought transferring was potentially appropriate. But the evidence also shows 
he had a history of taking and acting on advice in relation to his finances. And given that he 
sought Prisms advice here  a professional adviser he had experience with, and trusted and 
accepted advice from previously - I think its advice wouldve carried significant weight. And 
if Prism had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Prism should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer 
redress methodology.
The DC transfers
In addition to transferring the benefits from his DB scheme, Prism also recommended that 
Mr S transfer the benefits he held under an accompanying AVC policy and a SIPP to the 
same new provider.
The suitability report indicated that the reason for this was that consolidation of benefits was 
desired.
The ongoing cost of the AVC was recorded as being a discounted 0.75% annual 
management charge. The SIPP had a combined annual cost of 1.26% (a 0.91% annual 
management charge and 0.35% product charge).
The PPP that Prism recommended had an annual management charge of 0.79% and a 
product charge of 0.35%. But Prism also charged an annual fee of 0.75% for providing 
ongoing management. So overall, the cost of the new arrangement appears to have been 
greater than Mr S existing DC schemes.
The suitability report also confirmed that the majority of the flexible features that the new 
arrangement would provide were already offered by Mr S DC schemes. The only difference 
being the specific investment fund portfolio wasnt available. But its likely, on balance, that 
while the portfolio with the new adviser wasnt available Mr S existing SIPP wouldve given 
him access to a far wider range of investments  if this was something that he was genuinely 
interested in.
So, there seems to have been no particular reason or benefit to Mr S in transferring the DC 
schemes, beyond consolidation of his different provisions. And as Ive already found that the 
DB scheme transfer was unsuitable, it follows, in my opinion, that without that, the transfer of 
the DC schemes would not have taken place. So, at the same time as addressing the 
unsuitable advice to transfer his DB scheme, I think Prism should put Mr S, as far as 
possible, in the position he wouldve been in, had the transfer of the DC schemes not taken 
place.Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Mr S didnt provide any further comments for me to consider.
Prism did not agree with my provisional decision and provided an extensive explanation why. 
It is meant as no discourtesy that Ive summarised its response below, rather than repeat 
each point made. And Ive considered everything that it has said and provided.
Prism said the issue to be decided was whether it had discharged its responsibilities as set 
out by the regulator and taken reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable. It was 
confident that it had and said it was concerned Id concluded to the contrary and that Id 
given my opinion at times, which it felt was outside of the scope of what I was required to 
decide, rather than making my decision solely on the evidence or facts in this complaint.
It said it felt Mr S and his representatives complaint was without foundation or merit and 
questioned the integrity of the complaint. Prism also felt the information it had provided to the 
representative in response to a subject access complaint, prior to the complaint being 
lodged, evidenced this. And its view was the complaint should not have been made.
Prism reiterated that it felt Mr S had been clear that he was going to retire at age 55 and 
wanted to take an income from his pension benefits. It disputes that these objectives were 
undecided or in question and said that, as Mr S adviser for a number of years, it was in a 
position to understand his circumstances and needs. It said Mr S was not in the slightest bit 
concerned with losing the guaranteed benefits of the DB scheme, as they wouldnt meet his 
needs. 
It refuted that he had other viable ways of achieving his goals as the alternatives suggested 
would not have satisfied his requirements and did not reflect what he wanted. And it 
remained of the opinion that the evidence supported that the transfer was in Mr S best 
interests.
Prism said it hadnt said that the comparison of benefits available at different points under 
the DB scheme were irrelevant but that these were less relevant; as Mr S had clearly 
indicated his confirmed intention to retire and take benefits at age 55.
It also said that Mr S was an experienced investor and, while he did seek advice from Prism, 
would not have followed this without question. And it also made the point that he was 
required to seek advice due to the nature of the transfer.
In summary it said that it felt I had no reasonable grounds for saying that the advice was 
unsuitable. Prism believed the suggested alternative ways of meeting Mr S needs that Id 
discussed were unsound. And it was unhappy with some of the statements Id made, 
particularly in relation to Prisms role going beyond transacting what Mr S wanted, as it felt 
these were unfair and that it had provided appropriate advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Id like to start by reiterating my role here. Our service is an impartial dispute resolution 
service and an informal alternative to a court of law. Prism has said it believes that a 
complaint has no merits and should not have been made. But Mr S is entitled to ask our 
service to consider a complaint, if he feels otherwise. And can use a representative to bring 
his complaint. As was the case here.
My role, where there is a disagreement, difference of opinion or where the evidence, 
including testimony, is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, is to reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
In deciding a complaint, I take into account relevant regulations and regulators rules. What 
Ive considered includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS).  And, while not a comprehensive list of all rules and regulations that 
applied at the time, this includes
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
But my role isnt just to determine if there has been a breach of regulation. Ive also taken 
into account relevant law, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And, once Ive done all of this, I 
have to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
I appreciate from the responses Prism provided to both our Investigators opinion and my 
provisional decision that it feels very strongly about this complaint. And that it considers the 
advice it provided to Mr S to have been appropriate. Ive considered everything that it has 
said and reiterated, as well as all of the other available information. But while I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Prism, Im not inclined to depart from my provisional findings.
Prism has said that Mr S had decided, unequivocally, that he was going to retire at age 55 
and that he wanted to use his DB scheme benefits to support his income needs, regardless 
of the guarantees being given up. And he intended to move home within a couple of years 
meaning he may need to utilise his other assets to cover the costs of this.
But I remain of the opinion that the available information doesnt support that these 
intentions were set in stone. The fact find completed by the adviser was clear that no final 
decision had been taken about Mr S working arrangements from age 55, and that continuing 
to work  likely reduced hours  was very much under consideration. Prism has said that this 
option still represented retiring  as many people retire from their role but work part time. 
But the point is, on balance, I dont think a definitive decision on this had been taken.Likewise, in respect of a potential house move, the fact find notes recorded by the adviser 
are clear that Mr S had indicated the possibility of a house move in 2  4 years. And there 
is nothing, in my view, to suggest that this was anything more than a possibility  with costs 
and requirements unknown.
In any event though, I dont think Mr S needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits when he 
did. Mr S had other assets  cash reserves, investments, a maturing endowment, equity in a 
second property and smaller defined contribution pension policies. And given the values of 
these assets, Im satisfied a combination of these couldve been used to support his 
retirement income needs  if he had stopped work or reduced his hours from age 55  based 
on how much Mr S felt he was likely to require. And these assets would still have had 
significant remaining value if Mr S did ultimately decide to go ahead with a house move 
within 2-4 years. So, could still have assisted with this.
It could be argued that these same assets couldve been used to support Mr S needs at a 
later point in retirement, after transferring his DB scheme benefits and using those initially. 
But many of these other assets were subject to investment risk. Whereas the DB scheme 
benefits were guaranteed and would continue to escalate. They provided a pension for life  
not just until a pension pot was exhausted. And when coupled with his state pension 
entitlement, wouldve provided the significant majority of the income that he was targeting in 
later life. And again, this wouldve been guaranteed, rather than subject to risk.
Prism has said that Mr S was not concerned with giving up these guaranteed benefits. But 
that doesnt mean it was in his best interests to do so. Which I think ought to have been 
made clear.
As I said in my provisional findings, I know that Mr S made the point that he was concerned 
that the existing benefits would not leave a legacy for his children and would be lost in the 
event of his death. But again a pension is designed to provide for the holders retirement first 
and foremost. And if he transferred the benefits, the sum remaining on his death, the legacy, 
would be subject to investment risk and wouldve been depleted by any withdrawals made 
from the fund. The apparent intention was for there to be significant regular withdrawals, 
from age 55, with the likelihood being that the fund wouldve been significantly diminished by 
state retirement age and potentially exhausted entirely before Mr S reached an age 
equivalent to his average life expectancy. And given Mr S was in good health, I dont think 
transferring was likely to mean the pension provided the legacy he intended.
So, for all of the reasons Ive explained in my provisional findings and above, I remain of the 
opinion that transferring was not in Mr S best interests in the circumstances. So, I dont think 
Prism shouldve advised him to do so.
Prism has said that Mr S knew his own mind and has again suggested he knew what he 
wanted to do  although it has made the point that it believes this is somewhat moot and the 
advice was suitable. But I still dont think Mr S wouldve disregarded Prisms advice. He had 
a history of taking advice from Prism. And I think its fair to say from the information Ive seen 
that he considered its advice to be professional and that he respected it. So, if Prism had 
advised him here that transferring wasnt in his best interests and explained why and how he 
could otherwise meet his aims, I think hed have accepted that advice. And, but for the 
unsuitable advice, I dont think Mr S wouldve transferred his pension benefits, from either 
his DB scheme or FSAVC and SIPP, and wouldve retained his existing benefits. So, I think 
Prism should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice.Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr S as far as possible in the position he would be in 
now if Prism had given him suitable advice. I think Mr S would have remained in the DB 
scheme. I also think he would have retained his existing AVC and SIPP arrangements.
What should Prism do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Prism must determine the combined fair value of his 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the personal pension at the date of the 
calculation. Im aware that Mr S pension mayve been transferred to another provider after 
he changed financial advisers in January 2020. So, Prism will have to obtain the current 
value from the relevant provider.
fair value  step one
If Mr S had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the DB scheme.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr S whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for the any new guidance / rules to be published. 
He didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want 
to wait for any new guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr S. 
Prism must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr S lost as a result of transferring 
out of his DB scheme in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr S acceptance of the final decision.
Prism may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr S 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr S SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Prism to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
fair value  step two
Prism must compare the total value of the AVC and SIPP transferred to the personal 
pension it recommended to Mr S with that of the benchmark shown below to determine the 
fair value of Mr S AVC and SIPP if suitable advice had been given.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
For half the
investment:
AVC and 
SIPPStill exists 
(potentially with 
a different 
provider than 
recommended 
by Prism)FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: averageDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision
rate from fixed
rate bonds8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 90 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Prism should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sums paid into personal pension should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other 
payment out of the personal pension should be deducted from the fair value at the point it 
was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Prism totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date 
Prism receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Prism 
to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk with his pension provisions to attain his investment objectives. 
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not 
mean that Mr S would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% 
in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I require Prism Financial Advice Limited to pay Mr S the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Prism Financial Advice Limited to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Prism 
Financial Advice Limited to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Prism Financial Advice Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts my final decision, the money award would become binding on Prism 
Financial Advice Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman