DRN-3847629
The complaint
Mrs Q complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) disposed of her car after she made a 
claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Q had a motor insurance policy with Aviva covering her car.
In August 2021 Mrs Q was involved in a collision and made a claim to Aviva. Aviva assessed 
the car as a write-off. Mrs Q said she really liked the car and wanted the insurer to repair it. 
Aviva declared the car as being beyond economic repair and settled the claim. 
A few months later, Mrs Q saw the car being driven by someone else. She wasnt happy 
about this and she complained to Aviva because she says it told her that the car was 
unrepairable.
Aviva explained that the car was beyond economic repair, so it had written the car off and 
disposed of it.
Mrs Q remained unhappy with Avivas response and brought her complaint to this service.
She says this has caused her considerable distress as it could have been repaired and been 
back on the road within a relatively short period of time. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Qs complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he thought that 
Aviva had acted fairly in writing the car off and itd followed its terms and conditions in doing 
so. 
Mrs Q asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why as I appreciate this will be a 
disappointment for Mrs Q.
I can see from Mrs Qs comments that she was very disappointed by the car being disposed 
of by Aviva. In her evidence she explains that she was very attached to the car and she 
mentions she would have like to have considered getting it repaired herself. 
Ive thought carefully about this. Ive looked into the details of the incident and Avivas 
assessment of how much the car would have taken to repair. I can quickly determine that the 
likely cost of repair for Aviva was about double the cars market value. 
Despite Mrs Qs attachment to the car, she would have had to buy the car from Aviva, then 
transport it, assess it and repair it. And without access to the right facilities or being able to 
carry out the work herself, I think its fair to say that the cost of repair would have likely 
continue to rise. 
Ive looked at Avivas policy wording which says:
If your vehicle is damaged, we will:
Repair your vehicle unless you notify us that you want us to pay someone else to 
repair it: or
Pay you a cash amount equal to the loss or damage
The most we will pay is the market value of your vehicle.
It seems to me that this wording means Aviva could have paid a repairer to carry out work up 
to the value of the car, but Mrs Q would still have to pay the repairer the remainder. A figure 
likely to be upwards of £5,000, for a car now worth less than before as it had been declared 
a write-off.
Ive also listened to calls between Aviva and Mrs Q discussing the value of the car when it 
had been declared a write-off. In those calls, its clear that Mrs Q was offered to retain the 
car and she declines the offer and by doing so she accepts that Aviva are going to dispose 
of it. 
She may not have fully understood what was going to happen to the car after this point, but I 
think she reasonably had the opportunity to ask Aviva to explain things further.
I can appreciate Mrs Qs disappointment, but I think Aviva have acted reasonably and Im 
not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman