DRN-4070588
The complaint
Mr M complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of his claim, under his 
buildings insurance policy, following a flood that caused damage to his home. 
Mr M is represented by his wife Mrs M in his complaint. 
What happened
Flood water entered Mr Ms home in early October 2022. His home is adapted for his needs 
due to certain health issues, which means he only uses the ground floor. All of the ground 
floor was affected by the flood water. Mrs M contact Aviva to make a claim. This was 
accepted but she says it took five days before alternative accommodation was provided. 
Mrs M was concerned about the possible health impact of the contaminated water. She says 
Aviva requested that she clear out the flood water, which she felt was irresponsible, given 
both her and her husbands health issues.
Mrs M had concerns with the quality of the repairs and the lack of suitable cleaning. She 
says further problems occurred with the electrics. These were repaired, which allowed them 
to move back in toward the end of the first week in December 2022. She says on Christmas 
eve issues with the electrics occurred again. She couldnt contact Aviva but was able to 
contact a local electrician. He advised the electrics were unsafe. This required further 
remedial work that Aviva subsequently arranged. 
Aviva says it carried out repairs in line with the requirements of its policy. This involved some 
remedial work inclusive of the electrical issue. In its response to Mrs Ms complaint, it offered 
£400 compensation.
Mrs M didnt think this was fair and contacted our service. Our investigator didnt uphold her 
complaint. She says Aviva acknowledged its initial electrical work didnt meet the required 
standards. This meant Mr and Mrs M had to make emergency arrangements on Christmas 
eve as well as additional work that was required in the new year. 
Our investigator didnt think there was evidence that Avivas contractors had failed to sanitise 
the property correctly. She also thought it had behaved fairly when initially offering hotel 
accommodation until a more suitable solution could be found. Because Aviva had offered 
£400 compensation, for the electrical issue, she didnt think it needed to do anymore. 
Mrs M disagreed. She says the contaminated flood water was hazardous to both her and her 
husband. She queries why Aviva agreed to replace the skirting if they had been sanitised. 
Mrs M highlights the dangerous work carried out by the electrician initially and queries if this 
work was intended to be temporary as this wasnt the impression the electrician gave. She 
says the alternative accommodation initially offered wasnt suitable and it was her daughter 
that found a suitable property. Mrs M also maintains she was told to clear out the flood water 
to prevent a bigger claim. 
Because Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators findings, she asked for an ombudsman to 
consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
From the claim records I can see that alternative accommodation was offered to Mr and Mrs 
M initially. However, this was limited to hotel accommodation. Mrs M has explained that Mr 
M has health and mobility issues. This means their home is specially adapted to assist with 
his daily living requirements. I can understand why it was important for suitable alternative 
accommodation to be found. It must have been frustrating when this wasnt immediately 
available. 
The records show that Aviva had difficulty locating accommodation that could provide the 
facilities Mr M required. Fortunately, Mrs Ms daughter sourced a suitable property, and this 
was agreed to be paid for by Aviva. Initially this was agreed for a short period and later 
extended to cover the full period of the repairs.  
Ive read Mr Ms policy terms to understand what is expected under the cover provided. The 
terms say:
If the home is damaged by any cause which would be covered under The buildings, cover 
sections numbered 1 to 10, and as a result it cannot be lived in, we will pay for: 
b) any reasonable additional accommodation expenses for you and your domestic animals
And:
When we refer to reasonable additional accommodation expenses in this section this 
means that we will pay for alternative accommodation for you and your domestic pets taking 
all of the circumstances of your claim into account, including factors such as your own 
needs, the alternative (and comparable costs of) accommodation available in the area and 
the length of time for which it is required. We will be happy to discuss this with you and may 
also be able to offer assistance in finding accommodation in difficult circumstances
Im sorry Mr and Mrs M had to wait five days before alternative accommodation was found. 
But having considered the records provided, Aviva did offer hotel accommodation until it 
could source something more appropriate for Mr Ms needs. There were limited options 
available in the local area given Mr Ms requirements. Mrs M explains it was also important 
they remained close to their home. In these circumstances I dont think Aviva acted 
unreasonably when trying to source suitable accommodation for Mr and Mrs M. 
Ive seen the information provided by the electricians that visited Mr Ms property, following 
the issue that occurred on Christmas eve. Its been shown that the residual current device 
(RCD) had been by-passed and there was electrical cable that had been incorrectly 
installed. Aviva refers to this as a temporary repair that it wasnt aware of. From the photos 
supplied I can see a hand-written message indicating the electrical system was unsafe. This 
was written on tape attached to the electrical consumer unit. If this was intended as a 
temporary repair, it should have been remedied prior to Mr and Mrs M returning to their home. I can understand why they were so concerned about this. This caused further distress 
and inconvenience around the Christmas holidays, which could reasonably have been 
avoided. 
Mrs M raised concerns that skirting boards hadnt been replaced. Given the contamination 
and damage from the flood water she thought this wouldve been done. Aviva says anything 
that wasnt damaged was reused. It says the skirtings were sanitised and replaced where 
they werent damaged as per its policy terms. However, in response to Mrs Ms ongoing 
concerns about contamination it agreed to replace the skirtings and sanitise the walls behind 
before refitting. 
I can understand Mrs Ms concern that the floodwater may contain contaminates, which 
could impact negatively on her and her husbands health. However, Mr Ms policy terms do 
allow Aviva to settle a claim by reinstating or repairing. From the claim notes the skirtings 
were undamaged. Avivas contractors cleaned the skirtings before replacing them. I dont 
think this was unreasonable. However, the business did agree to replace the skirtings and 
sanitise the walls behind in light of Mrs Ms ongoing concerns. In the circumstances 
described I dont think Aviva behaved unreasonably here.  
Ive thought about Mrs Ms comments that she was told over the phone to clean up the flood 
water around the time she reported her loss. Ive read the claim records and Mrs Ms 
testimony around this point. I dont dispute her recollection of what was said, which is that 
with the help of a neighbour efforts were made to clear out the flood water. She says she 
was told to do this by Avivas agent. 
The records say Avivas agent noted the flood water was being cleared out when he called 
Mrs M to triage the claim. The note says he expressed gratitude that Mrs M was acting to 
mitigate her loss.
I can understand Mrs Ms concern. Its not entirely clear if work was already underway to 
clean up the flood water when the call in question took place. But I dont think its 
unreasonable that Mrs M would attempt to clean up flood water from her home. Or that 
Avivas agent acted irresponsibly here. Im not aware that Mrs M or her husband were 
caused harm as a result of cleaning up the flood water. But ultimately it was there decision to 
do this. In the circumstances this was likely the quickest way to remove the standing water 
and begin the drying process. Im sorry this issue caused Mrs M distress, but I dont think 
Avivas agent behave unfairly based on what Ive read.
Having considered all of this I think its fair that Aviva compensates Mr M for the issues 
identified with the electrical work. This caused distress given the unsafe state it had been left 
in. As well as inconvenience in arranging for emergency repairs at short notice on Christmas 
eve. And further work to return the electrics to their pre-loss condition. But I think Avivas 
offer of £400 is reasonable to acknowledge these issues. Aviva should arrange for this to be 
paid to Mr M, if it hasnt already. 
Im sorry Mr and Mrs Ms home suffered damage as a result of a flood. This mustve been a 
very distressing time for them. But in light of the compensation offer Aviva made for the 
issues caused by its contractor, I cant fairly ask it to do any more.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman