DRN-3294630
The complaint
Mr I complains about the service he received when he asked Barclays Bank UK PLC to send 
some money abroad. He says it quoted him an incorrect exchange rate and didnt complete 
the transfer of funds on the day he asked it to.
What happened
Mr I asked Barclays to transfer some money to a relatives account abroad, but he says the 
bank didnt process the transaction correctly and the service hes received since he raised 
the matter with it has been poor. Mr I told us:
He wanted to send £2,876.34 to a relatives bank account in another country, so he 
visited his local bank branch on 26 October 2020 to facilitate this;
he wanted the banks £25 fee to be deducted from this amount, and because he 
wanted the amount received by his relative to be a round number, he added a 
further £2.86 to the total, taking it to £2,879.20;
he asked the member of staff at the branch to confirm the amount that would be 
received by the beneficiary and he says she wrote it down for him  13,700 Saudi 
Riyals  but he wasnt given a receipt;
several days later he received confirmation of the transfer, but the date of the transfer 
was 27 October, not 26 October, and the payment was less than he expected  
13,533.44 Saudi Riyals;
the discrepancy has caused him problems and affected his reputation  hed already 
confirmed to the beneficiary the date theyd receive the funds and the amount to 
expect. But the transfer was sent a day late and the amount received was less than 
expected;
he wrote to the bank on several occasions in November and December because he 
wanted to understand what had happened, but he never received a response;
he complained to Barclays and in January 2021, it wrote to him and accepted it had 
made a mistake and it paid him £25 as a goodwill gesture;
Barclays hasnt treated him well and its caused him a lot of stress; it transferred the 
funds a day late and transferred a sum that was different to his instructions; and hes 
unhappy with the service it provided.
Barclays said the confirmation it generated on 27 October once the transaction had 
completed confirmed the amount transferred and the applicable exchange rate. It 
acknowledged that the exchange rate was slightly less than the booked rate, by a very 
small amount  equivalent to less than £2  so it gave Mr I £25 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Barclays explained that it couldnt be held accountable for the actual number of Saudi Riyals 
received by Mr Is relative because the beneficiarys bank may have levied its own fees and 
charges on the transaction  this isnt something it would be aware of or could control.
Barclays told us it had sent the international payment on 26 October and issued confirmation 
 a funds advice letter  on 27 October. It says this advice letter confirmed the value of the 
transaction in £sterling, the applicable exchange rate and the number of Saudi Riyals being 
sent. It also advised Mr I of the applicable fee.
Mr I is unhappy with what Barclays told him, so he brought his complaint to this Service. He 
says he wants compensation for the stress its caused him and to recognise the time hes 
spent visiting his local branch to sort out this matter.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the Funds Transfer  Debit Advice confirmation from the bank clearly showed 
the exchange rate used and confirmed the amount of Saudi Riyals being sent. He also 
reassured Mr I that although this confirmation was dated 27 October  the date it was 
generated and sent to Mr I  it confirmed the details of the transaction from the day before.
He acknowledged that there was a difference in the amount of Saudi Riyals sent because of 
changes in the exchange rate but said that Barclays £25 compensation more than covered 
this. So, he wouldnt ask it to do anything more.
The investigator also considered the issues Mr I had raised about the service Barclays 
provided. But he didnt uphold this aspect of Mr Is complaint. He explained that Barclays 
had given Mr I its standard telephone number  the one it gave to all its customers if they 
wished to contact it. And although Mr Is telephone network provider had made a charge for 
calls to this number, he couldnt fairly say that Barclays had done anything wrong.
He also said hed contacted the bank because Mr I said hed visited his local branch to 
discuss his complaint, and hed written to it several times  but hed not had any response. 
Barclays said it had no record of receiving correspondence from Mr I and the contact notes 
on his account had no record of his attending the branch. Barclays said it had spoken with 
the branch staff but, because of the time that had elapsed, they had no recollection of Mr Is 
visits. In light of this, our investigator said he couldnt reach a finding that Barclays had done 
anything wrong.
Mr I disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to tell Mr I that my role isnt to punish businesses for their performance or behaviour  
thats the role of the regulator. My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have 
experienced and see if the business, in this case Barclays, has done anything wrong. If it 
has, I seek to put the consumer  Mr I  back in the position he wouldve been in if the 
mistakes hadnt happened.
Having taken everything into consideration, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to 
what hes already said. I think hes set out the position very clearly in both his views.
Theres no dispute about what happened. Mr I asked Barclays to send some money abroad 
to a relatives bank account. Ive seen the advice confirmation it generated and sent to him 
and Im satisfied that the money was sent on the date in question and at the exchange rate it 
confirms.
Mr I says a bank representative told him how many Saudi Riyals his beneficiary should 
expect to receive and because the actual amount was less, this caused him stress and had 
a detrimental effect on his reputation and trustworthiness. Im sorry to hear this. But taking all 
the evidence and testimony into account, I just havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the bank provided Mr I with an incorrect quote; that is to say that it told him his 
beneficiary should expect to receive a significantly higher number of Saudi Riyals than they 
did when the funds arrived in their account. Ive taken account of the hand-written note, but I 
simply cant conclude that this was an authorised quote produced by or on behalf of the 
bank.
Ive also taken into consideration that Barclays quickly acknowledged that the actual 
exchange rate was worse than the rate that was booked. I understand that this resulted in 
Mr Is relative receiving around 6 Saudi Riyals - £1.26  less because of this. But Ive also 
noted that Barclays very quickly recognised this and paid Mr I £25 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Im therefore satisfied that this more than compensates Mr I and I wont be asking Barclays 
to do anything more.
Finally, Ive looked at the service Mr I received from Barclays. But, like our investigator, I 
cant conclude, on the balance of probabilities, that it did anything wrong here. I say this 
because it provided Mr I with its normal customer contact number, something that I wouldve 
expected it to do. And although Mr I says the service at his local branch was poor, theres 
simply no records that Ive seen to show that he had contacted it in writing or in person on 
the occasions he said he did.
I know Mr I will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive reached the conclusion that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman