DRN-1800438
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc rejected his section 75 claim when he complained 
about issues hed experienced whilst on holiday.
What happened
Mr G booked a holiday in Spain with a travel retailer. The cost of the holiday was around 
£2300. Mr G paid around £1600 of this using his Santander credit card.
Mr G says he wanted a family friendly holiday. He was unhappy about several things 
including:
Stains on pull out bed
No cot
Hotel swimming pool not suitable for children
Beach not close to hotel
Queues at hotel restaurant and no child friendly food
 
On returning home, Mr G complained to the merchant but it subsequently went into 
administration.
Mr G contacted Santander and made a claim under section  75. Santander said there were 
grounds to believe that a  misrepresentation had taken place because the hotel was not as 
described. It offered Mr G compensation of £250.
Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator agreed that there had been issued with the holiday and said it was likely 
that there had been a breach of contract in relation to some aspects, such as the room and 
the wait for the food. But the investigator didnt think these issues had spoiled the majority of 
the holiday and said the offer by Santander was fair.
Mr G didnt agree. He felt that the holiday had been mis-sold because there were no baby 
friendly facilities and the entertainment wasnt suitable for children.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr G didnt have the holiday experience he was hoping for and I understand 
why hes disappointed. However, I dont think Santander need to do anything further here. Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, Id like to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services 
provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 
75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Gs complaint, Ive 
taken section 75 into account. But this doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome 
as, for instance, a court might reach if Mr G pursued a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and as described, and 
services must be carried out with reasonable care and skill. If this isnt the case, then a  
breach of contract can be said to have occurred. For a misrepresentation, Mr G would need 
to show that the merchant made an untrue statement of fact which induced him to enter into 
the contract.
Ive considered all the issues complained about by Mr G. I wont comment on every single 
one but will focus on those which I think are most relevant.
In relation to the hotel, Mr G has said that he was told when he booked that the hotel was 
child friendly. I havent been provided with any information to show exactly what facilities the 
hotel was advertised as offering for children. Child friendly isnt a defined term and can be 
interpreted in a number of ways. It might simply mean that children are welcome at the hotel 
(as opposed to adults only). Or it might mean that the hotel has facilities which are 
particularly suited to children. Based on what Ive seen, the hotel did welcome children and 
there was a swimming pool on site. There was also a pull out bed in the room. Its not clear 
whether Mr G specifically requested a cot at the time of booking so I cant be certain of 
whether this was something the hotel should have provided.
Ive thought about what Mr G has said about the dirty room and the food choices. This goes 
to whether the hotel provided its services with reasonable care and skill. On the basis of the 
information provided by Mr G, Im unable to make an assessment of whether the room was 
dirty or whether the food was of a reasonable standard. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr G 
has said but I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that there was a breach of 
contract.
Ive also considered whether there has been a misrepresentation. Based on the information 
provided, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the merchant made an 
untrue statement of fact about the facilities at the hotel. Theres no evidence to show that Mr 
G was told that the hotel is suitable for children under 5, or that there is a childrens menu or 
a play area. So whist I understand that Mr G may have these things, I havent seen evidence  
to persuade me that these facilities were promised.
Based on the information provided, Im unable to say that theres enough evidence  to show 
that theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. I dont think Santander has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in response to the section 75 claim. I think the offer made by 
Santander was fair, because despite the issues, Mr G was provided with a  holiday.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman