DRN-1484919
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the amount of compensation offered by National Westminster Bank Plc 
after it temporarily blocked the use of his debit card.
What happened
Mr R has a current account with NatWest. On 2 August 2019 a block was temporarily placed 
on his account in error by NatWest. As a result, two online transactions he attempted to 
make, in quick succession to the same retailer using his debit card, were declined.
Mr R contacted NatWest about this and says he spent a couple of hours on the phone to try 
to resolve this issue. He says that being unable to use the account and the time taken 
attempting to resolve the issue caused disruption to his plans.
NatWest apologised to Mr R. It acknowledged that the block had been added to his account 
by mistake. It noted that it was removed within a few hours but still accepted it had made an 
error. To put things right it paid him £22.01 to cover his call costs and £25 for the 
inconvenience caused by its error.
Mr R asked our service to investigate the complaint as he didnt think this amount was 
sufficient. An investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint but felt that the offer made by 
NatWest was fair.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that not 
having access to the account had meant he was unable to buy food or petrol at the point he 
intended to, causing inconvenience. As Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
NatWest has acknowledged that it temporarily blocked the use of Mr Rs account and debit 
card and that it did so in error. So, it isnt in dispute that a mistake was made. What is left for 
me to decide is whether the offer it has made is a fair way to resolve this.
NatWest has said that the block was removed within a couple of hours. It has provided an 
audit trail showing the two online payments that were unsuccessful. This audit trail shows 
that the next attempt to use the card, an online purchase a few hours later on 2 August 
2019, was successful. I think this confirms the block was removed relatively quickly.
Mr R has said that the block caused disruption to his plans and prevented him from 
purchasing food and petrol as intended. I note there were no further declined transactions  either online or at a point of sale terminal - after the original two transactions were stopped. 
But I dont doubt that this matter caused Mr R some disruption.
The role of our service is to consider complaints informally. We do not fine or punish 
businesses for errors made, rather we decide what we think is the fair and reasonable way 
to resolve things. 
Ive taken on board what Mr R has said and understand that it wouldve been frustrating to 
have to alter his plans. But given how quickly NatWest rectified its error I think the disruption 
caused was minimised as much as possible. And beyond the cost of the calls I cant see that 
Mr R has incurred a loss as a result of what happened. So while I dont doubt the disruption 
was inconvenient for Mr R, I think what NatWest has already done to address this  paying 
Mr Rs call costs and £25 for the inconvenience caused  is fair. So I cant reasonably 
require it to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman