DRN-3254365
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) blocked his account card.
What happened
Mr B says he tried to pay for a transaction for just over £20,000 in April 2021 using his 
NatWest account card. He says the payment was blocked and he tried to use the card on a 
number of occasions without success. Mr B says he was committed to buy the item and 
used a different payment method which meant a different exchange rate was used. He says 
that resulted in a loss to him of over £926 which he would like NatWest to pay him.
NatWest says its entitled to place account blocks in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions. But it accepts it gave Mr B incorrect information by telling him there wasnt an 
account block. NatWest has apologised and has paid Mr B £100 compensation and has 
offered a further £100 but says it was Mr Bs choice to use an alternative payment method.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr Bs account terms and conditions allowed NatWest to block a payment and or 
restrict account usage. The investigator accepted Mr B had been given incorrect information 
but thought the compensation offer appropriate.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says NatWest compensation offer confirms it made a 
mistake by blocking the payment. He says he has used the account card for large purchases 
in the past.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that NatWest has made an appropriate 
compensation offer. 
I have looked carefully at Mr Bs account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
on occasions transactions may be declined and or account restrictions applied. So, I dont 
think NatWest made a mistake or acted unfairly when Mr Bs attempted payment for over 
£20,000 was blocked. I am sure Mr B appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks 
and building societies and that they must have measures in place to protect its and its 
customers money. I accept that on occasions legitimate transactions as here can result in 
security measure being placed on an account but that doesnt mean as in this case NatWest 
has made a mistake or acted unfairly by doing so.
There is no dispute here that NatWest didnt provide Mr B with accurate information about 
his account when the transaction was blocked. I have no doubt Mr B was caused frustration 
and inconvenience by that mistake. But Im satisfied NatWest has fairly apologised for that 
mistake and has offered what I think is a fair and reasonable total compensation offer of 
£200.
I appreciate Mr B says he should be paid the loss caused by using a different payment 
method when his NatWest account card was blocked. I dont agree and think it was Mr Bs 
choice to use the payment method he did. And Im satisfied that NatWest by paying 
compensation isnt accepting it should not have placed the block but that it accepts it should 
have given Mr B accurate information when he called. I also dont think it matters if Mr B has 
been able to use his account card to buy relatively high value items in the past.
Overall, Im satisfied that NatWest has offered an appropriate compensation amount in total 
of £200. I dont think NatWest should reasonably pay for the additional cost caused by Mr B 
using a different payment method to complete the purchase and find that was his choice 
rather than wait for the restrictions be removed. I appreciate how strongly Mr B feels about 
what took place and will leave it to him to decide if he wishes to accept the further £100 
compensation. His acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer in total of £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman