DRN-1500503
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
withdrew funding from a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their policy to cover the legal costs of a dispute with their 
neighbours over a right of way. Their claim was accepted and DAS instructed solicitors to act 
on their behalf. 
Some time later, the solicitors informed DAS that both Mr and Mrs B and their neighbours 
had been making offers to settle the dispute but a resolution wasnt forthcoming. Theyd 
obtained advice from counsel who thought Mr and Mrs B didnt have reasonable prospects 
of beating the neighbours offer. 
DAS advised that as there were no longer reasonable prospects of success, the conditions 
under the policy were no longer met. It offered to fund a further three hours of mediation. But 
the solicitors advised theyd already incurred 30 hours of mediation since counsels advice 
and a further three hours was unlikely to conclude the claim. So DAS withdrew funding. 
Mr and Mrs B continued to fund mediation privately and were able to resolve the dispute 
three months later. Theyve incurred costs of £4,570 which they want DAS to reimburse. 
They say it was unfair for DAS to withdraw funding when there were ongoing meaningful 
discussions with their neighbours taking place and a settlement was in sight. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said DAS was entitled to rely on the legal 
advice it obtained. And as counsel had provided an unsupportive opinion, it was entitled to 
withdraw funding. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr 
and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
It is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies that any intended claim has a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mr and Mrs Bs policy is no exception. It says that for 
cover to be provided reasonable prospects of success must exist for the duration of the 
claim. For civil cases that means that the policyholder will recover losses or damages or 
obtain any other legal remedy DAS have agreed to, as assessed by DAS preferred law firm.
We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer 
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurer to either.Where an insurer has withdrawn funding in such a case, its not for me to evaluate the merits 
of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. Id expect 
the insurer to get legal advice. And so long as it has obtained advice from suitably qualified 
lawyers, its entitled to rely on that advice, unless it was obviously wrong or based on factual 
mistakes. 
DAS has relied on a legal opinion from counsel, and Im satisfied the advising barrister is 
suitably qualified in dealing with property litigation cases. So DAS was entitled to rely on 
their advice and Im not aware of any reason why it should not have done so in this case.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have raised concerns that counsels advice is factually incorrect. 
They say the offer counsel has considered to be reasonable is in fact one they made, not 
their neighbours. However Ive seen the correspondence in which this offer was made. So 
Im not satisfied the assessment from counsel was obviously wrong or based on factual 
mistakes. 
Mr and Mrs B also say it was unfair to withdraw funding as a settlement was in sight. But this 
isnt what the solicitors had told DAS. The solicitors said theyd conducted 30 hours of 
mediation without success. And that going forward, it would likely require much more time 
and possibly the involvement of counsel. 
DAS can only rely on the legal advice it is given. And I dont think its reasonable to expect 
DAS to continue funding the claim for an indefinite amount of time when counsels advice 
was that a reasonable offer had been made. And I note the dispute wasnt resolved for 
another three months. 
Im satisfied DAS was entitled to withdraw legal expenses funding. So I wont be asking them 
to reimburse Mr and Mrs Bs legal fees. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman