DRN-1925707
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund a payment he 
disputes.
What happened
Mr S says he didnt make a payment of £150.93 using his credit card abroad on 6 
September 2019. He was on a cruise and visited the country where the payment was made 
but says he had left by the time of the payment. He reported his card lost on the following 
day.
Halifax said it wouldnt be refunding the money. There was no explanation of how the PIN 
used with this transaction had been discovered. It paid Mr S £50 for not transferring his call 
to the correct area and said it would pay for his call costs if he provided details of these. It 
acknowledged that some of the dates in its final response werent correct but said that this 
didnt make a difference to the outcome.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said he was satisfied 
from the information Mr S had provided about the time the cruise ship was in port and the 
local time of the transaction that Mr S wasnt at sea when it was made. There was the 
payment referred to at 12:04pm local time. And then two authorisations for £2,057.36 at a 
different merchant at 12:21pm but which had never been debited. The payment and 
authorisations were made when the chip on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN 
entered. Mr S said he hadnt written his PIN down and he hadnt used his card with the PIN 
since he was in a different country several days earlier. He noted that there was a 
substantial limit on the card and a fraudster would have likely taken as much as possible. He 
also noted the time Mr S had spent in disputing what was a relatively modest claim too. But 
he was unable to say how a fraudster could have guessed the PIN on the first attempt. On 
balance he thought Mr S should be held responsible for this payment.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that we had sided with Halifax as it was easier to do so. And this 
calls into question our impartiality. He referred to guidance that the burden of proof was on 
Halifax to show he had made the payment and didnt think that this had been reached here. 
He wanted this fully investigated and he said he wouldnt have spent the time he had on this 
complaint if he hadnt been genuine. He said he wasnt to blame or a liar here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2017. And to think about 
whether Mr S authorised the payment from his account. Thats more than the payment being 
authenticated but would require him to consent to it. If he didnt authorise it then generally 
Halifax wouldnt be able to hold him responsible for it. And where credit is involved as here, 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a consumer wouldnt be liable for 
an unauthorised payment unless they consented to someone else having possession of that 
card.
I need to explain that we provide informal dispute resolution and Ill be making my findings 
on the basis of what I think is most likely on a balance of probabilities and I wont be able to 
say exactly what happened. Halifaxs position is that it had proved with the evidence 
provided that Mr S is responsible for the payment. And so, Ill be thinking about whether that 
is reasonable taking into account what Mr S has said about it too. 
Halifax has provided a copy of the audit log showing the payments made using the card at 
this time. Im satisfied that the chip on the card was read and the correct PIN entered both to 
authenticate the disputed payments and then the later ones that were never debited. We 
havent seen evidence of the chip on a card being cloned for everyday use. And even if I 
was to consider that as an explanation here it wouldnt explain how a cloned card was 
produced and used and present in the location just at the time Mr S was there on holiday too 
and when he hadnt used the genuine card with the PIN since he was in a different country.
I need to think about whether Mr S consented to this payment. He says he didnt and the 
only other explanation I can see here is that someone was able to take his card and found 
out the PIN. In his submission to this service he explains how he kept his card safe when on 
board ship. But he identifies a time that day when his rucksack was unattended on a boat 
trip and says his sunglasses were taken too. I dont doubt the possibility of his card being 
taken in this way. The issue is how someone could have discovered the PIN. Mr S is clear 
he didnt write this down and hadnt told it to anyone and that it couldnt be easily guessed. It 
would be unlikely that someone possibly on the cruise had seen him enter the PIN at a 
previous port up to four days earlier and then waited to take the card from him and then 
been able to use it. Thats also not an explanation Mr S has put forward. 
I would expect a fraudster to take as much money as quickly as possible from a card 
especially if they had the PIN. On one hand the evidence shows that there were attempts to 
use the card to make much more expensive purchases. I cant resolve why those didnt go 
through when those amounts werent claimed. And there was no further such attempted use 
of the card including after it had been reported stolen. I do see Mr Ss point about the actual 
amount he is disputing and his insistence that he isnt the fraudster. And that he reported this 
as soon as he accessed his account online  and that such access I can see is confirmed 
with his online banking records.
As I said I can only make my decision on the basis of what is most likely. There is no more 
evidence about what happened that day. There is no likely explanation of how someone else 
could have found out the PIN and made this payment. I need to decide if its reasonable for 
Halifax to hold Mr S responsible for the payment. Having balanced all the factors I know I am 
going to disappoint him when I say that I think it is and so I wont be asking it to do anything 
further.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman