DRN-4387393
The complaint
Miss A complains that Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo (Fernovo) have held her liable for 
a loan she denied applying for. 
What happened
What Miss A says
Miss A explained that she noticed a number of loans had been applied for in her name. She 
then contacted the various loan companies including Fernovo (who she had a prior 
relationship with from an earlier loan) about the checks/applications that had been carried 
out relating to her credit file. Miss A says she never received a response from Fernovo at the 
time. Miss A says the other loan companies responded to her enquiries.
Miss A noticed £300 had been paid into her account by Fernovo and then saw two payments 
leaving her account for £150 each which she initially thought were the payments returning to 
Fernovo. After reporting the issue to her bank, Miss A asked Fernovo why theyd done this. 
Miss A didnt receive any response and some months later, she noticed her credit file 
showed an outstanding loan with Fernovo for £300.
Miss A got back in touch with them and asked about the loan. Fernovo confirmed the loan 
had been paid into Miss As account and their records showed that a different phone number 
and email address had been used to set up the loan. 
Miss A denied making the application and believed her account had been taken over by an 
unknown third party. Fernovo held Miss A liable for the loan and Miss A complained about 
the way that Fernovo had handled her situation. Fernovo declined the complaint and Miss A 
brought her issue to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
What Fernovo say
Fernovo dont appear to have answered Miss As initial contact with them (as far as details 
supplied to our service show). A series of emails were exchanged after Miss A again brought 
her issue to Fernovos notice, some months after the loan was paid into her account. After 
looking into the situation, Fernovo believed Miss A was responsible for the loan and held her 
liable for it.
The investigation so far
Fernovo and Miss A were asked to provide evidence relating to the complaint and Miss A 
supplied correspondence shed had with various organisations showing other credit 
searches for loans, including one for a successful loan that Miss A was able to stop. Miss A 
also confirmed she hadnt allowed anyone else to use her account or given those details to 
anyone else. She also said she hadnt clicked on any suspicious links or downloaded 
software. Miss A also believed that Fernovo had breached her data protection by sending 
emails to the unknown email address during the complaint.
Fernovo didnt respond for some time and based on their lack of response, the investigator 
assigned to the complaint issued an initial report upholding Miss As complaint. This was 
based on her evidence and testimony. Fernovo were then able to send in their evidence 
which was again considered by the investigator.
Fernovo said that whilst the email address and phone number were different to the one 
originally registered with them by Miss A, those details were changed on their website. This 
required the user to know the original email address and password registered with them or to 
have access to Miss As email in order to make these changes. 
Fernovo said that the bank account used for this latest disputed application was different to 
the one originally declared by Miss A, but it was also one used by Miss A which had been 
recorded in an earlier application by her some years previously.
Fernovo remained of the opinion that Miss A was responsible for the loan. They said they 
would remove any interest or charges and update her credit report but believed she should 
pay back the substantive loan.
Enquiries were carried out with Miss As bank that had received the loan and they were able 
to say theyd received Miss As notice about the loan and the subsequent unrecognised 
transactions leaving her account ( 2 x £150 payments). 
Miss A had told her bank shed lost her bank card when all the loan issues happened. She 
said the money had been sent to a crypto trading account in her name that someone had 
also taken over by changing the login details.
Miss As bank held her liable for the outgoing payments linked to the incoming loan. They 
said that they were sent using Miss As usual mobile banking device and went to an account 
that shed paid previously.
After reconsidering the complaint based on the new information, the investigator didnt 
uphold it, believing that Miss A was likely responsible for the loan. It was recommended that 
Miss A repay it to Fernovo. 
Miss A disagreed with the investigators outcome and commented that:
No one had access to her genuine email address.
Miss A didnt apply for the loan.
Miss A continued to deny shed authorised the outgoing payments from her current 
account and questioned how those payments were carried out.
Miss A thought that the money (loan) had been sent to a crypto trading account she 
held in her name (referred to here as N), which had also been taken over by an 
unknown third party. Miss A later said it was likely a different crypto account (referred 
to here as C) that the funds had gone into that had also been taken over.
Miss A said her bank couldnt tell her how the funds had been dispersed.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Miss A strongly denies applying for the loan or its 
subsequent transfer to one of her own crypto accounts, before the funds were exchanged 
and applied to a wallet that hasnt been traced. The wallet refers to how crypto funds are 
stored and controlled.
Fernovo said that the application for the loan was made after the original email address was 
changed and a new phone number added. They believe that whoever applied for it knew 
details about the loan accounts password and had access to Miss As email account. They 
believe that Miss A herself was responsible as the loan was also paid into one of her bank 
accounts and then used to purchase crypto funds.
If the evidence points towards Miss A having knowledge of the loan or being involved in 
moving the funds, she would be held liable to pay the substantive loan amount back. But, if 
on balance, the evidence shows Miss As account(s) were taken over by unknown third 
parties, then she wouldnt be liable for the loan and Fernovo would be required to write it off.
Miss A told her bank that shed lost her card prior to the various account takeovers starting. 
The banks contact notes state that Miss A told them the funds had gone to her crypto 
account after someone had compromised her bank account. She said her crypto account 
had also been compromised.
Later, she claimed not to know which account the funds had gone to when communicating 
with our service, although she later identified it was her account held with C that the funds 
were transferred to. Miss A also stated that she was unaware of how the funds had been 
dispersed from her account  but her bank had already held her liable for making the 
payments herself because her mobile banking app on her phone had been used to set up 
the payments.
I acknowledge the evidence supplied by Miss A showing various discussions with other 
merchants/loan companies recognising changes in her account details, including with C and 
N. This showed various accounts had been changed, which Miss A believes is the result of 
the same third party who compromised her Fernovo account and by extension her bank 
account.
When Ive considered this scenario, in order to falsely apply for a loan, move those funds 
from her bank account into another of Miss As accounts (with C), it would take several 
different accounts to be compromised. Miss A has already said she hadnt provided her 
details to anyone else or clicked on links that may be suspicious. So, it seems unlikely that a 
third party could obtain all these details in order to breach the various accounts without Miss 
A being aware of it.
For someone to breach a bank account, it would take several pieces of security information 
known only to Miss A and take require several steps designed to prevent such take overs. 
Its her banks view that the disputed funds were moved using her own phone with her 
banking app loaded onto it. Ive seen the records showing this, so I doubt that a third party 
was involved with the funds payments to her account with C. The same goes for the 
changes to her account held with Fernovo  again the original password and email or access 
to her email would be required (to force a password change)  which doesnt seem likely 
given the scenario painted by Miss A.Overall, the balance of the evidence shows that Miss A had knowledge of the loan and its 
unlikely that all of her accounts could have been taken over without her knowledge. Because 
Im satisfied that the two outgoing payments from her bank account were made with her 
usual device, I think its both fair and reasonable for Fernovo to hold her liable for the 
substantive loan repayment.
Fernovo had already stated that they would remove all interest and charges from the loan 
and remove the loan from her credit record. Theyve also said theyre ready to arrange a 
suitable repayment plan for the loan. I think this is a reasonable approach from Fernovo and 
I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
It follows that as I think Miss A likely had knowledge of the loan, its more likely than not that 
she also had knowledge of the other account set up to arrange the loan, so I wont be further 
considering her claims regarding data protection. If Miss A wishes to take her complaint 
regarding her personal information, shes free to raise it with the Information Commissioners 
Office.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman