DRN-3219235
The complaint
Mr O complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) failed to fix a leak at his property,
under his home emergency cover, leading to considerable damage to his bathroom and
kitchen below.
What happened
On 6 August 2018 Mr O contacted his home insurer to advise that he had noticed a leak in
his property. He was advised that the leak should be fixed as soon as possible and that he
should claim under the home emergency part of the policy (provided by IPA). IPA sent out a
plumber the next day. Im not entirely clear what happened as IPA no longer has the
plumbers notes. But I think it reasonable to assume that an emergency repair took place,
and from the records of his home insurer, that Mr O was advised to get the leak fixed.
He didnt do so and next contacted the home insurer on 4 September 2018. It was reiterated
to him that he needed to get the leak fixed. The home insurer sent out a surveyor about a
week later. That surveyor noted the damage. Mr O advised the surveyor on 4 October that
he had had the leak fixed. The home insurer accepted Mr Os claim in respect of the damage
noted by its surveyor and paid a cash settlement. Mr O said the damage was much more
extensive. Mr Os complaint about his home insurer was dealt with by this service and an
ombudsman made a final decision that the home insurer wasnt responsible for Mr Os
failure to repair the leak, nor was it responsible for the more extensive damage Mr O had
said was caused by the leak.
In respect of the actions taken by IPA, Mr G said it had identified the leak as coming from the
grouting between the tiles, when in fact this wasnt the case, and it came from a pipe under
the bath. He complained to IPA, who, in a letter dated 21 November 2018 said its original
diagnosis of the leak was correct and this was confirmed by the invoice Mr O supplied.
However it later agreed to pay the cost of Mr Os plumber fixing the leak.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that the complaint wasnt out of time, and that I 
could look at issues dealt with in the final response letter since IPA clearly changed its view 
after that and didnt issue any further final response letters. However having reviewed the 
complaint, I said I was satisfied that the home insurer had paid for the repairs up until the 
date its surveyor visited in September 2018. I said that I was not satisfied that IPA had any 
liability for the repairs or the cost of fixing the leak, beyond that which it had already paid.
Mr O didnt agree with my provisional findings. He said:
When the emergency plumber arrived there was heavy water continuously showering 
into the kitchen, and the passageway through ceiling and walls. He did not provide any 
service and did not come back either or send any report to him on his findings on what 
IPA wanted to do or what he should do.
 
The previous Ombudsman in her report did not consider any action or inaction of the 
IPA. She stated very clearly in her final decision that the case of failure of the emergency 
service should be referred to the appropriate insurer, which is IPA.
He made attempts to stop the leak, and to disprove the theory that the leak was a result 
of faulty grout in the bathroom. He turned off the water at the tank and applied blue dye 
to it which showed it wasnt water from the bath leaking into the kitchen. He then called 
out a freelance plumber who stopped the leak under the bath.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
Ive considered the jurisdiction issue. There is a lack of detail from IPAs files as to what
exactly happened after that final response was issued. I do know however that IPA paid
Mr O the cost of his plumber attending and fixing the leak. This means, in my view, that it
accepted that it should have fixed the leak that was subsequently identified by Mr Os
plumber. So I consider that I can look at issues dealt with in the final response letter since
IPA clearly changed its view after that and didnt issue any further final response letters.
I should advise Mr O however that as an ombudsman has previously issued a decision
concerning the same matters that arise in this case, Im bound by her conclusions, so far as
they affect IPAs liability.
I think it reasonable to assume, as the other ombudsman stated, that Mr O was told by the
plumber sent out by IPA that he should get the leak fixed. The home emergency part of the
policy only covers emergency repairs and isnt intended to provide a permanent fix.
However, if I assume that the first plumber who came out should have noticed the leak under
the bath and repaired it, I still have to look at the consequences. Mr O advised that he felt he
was precluded by the terms of the policy from calling out his own plumber. The ombudsman
didnt accept that. Nevertheless the surveyor appointed by the home insurer assessed the
damage as at the date he attended, by which time the leak had been ongoing for a month.
The ombudsman found that the home insurer had paid a reasonable cash settlement. Again
Im bound by her conclusions.
Mr O also produced a surveyors report and invoices detailing that the damage to the
bathroom and kitchen was much more extensive. Their report said that gallons of water
would have been released in a short space of time. The ombudsman said that If the main
pipe to the bath had burst and released gallons of water in a short space of time, its not
unreasonable to think that the damage would be far worse than some staining to the ceiling.
Indeed, its not unreasonable to think that the sudden release of gallons of water wouldve
brought the kitchen ceiling down. So, I dont think that [the home insurer] treated Mr O
unfairly by deciding to stick to the conclusions reached by its own surveyor as observed in
September 2018 rather than those reported by his surveyor in March 2019 some 7 months
after the leak.
Im bound by that conclusion which I think applies equally to IPA. Mr O had a responsibility
to make sure the leak was fixed and Im satisfied that he was told that was the case. So he
would have been aware that the leak was continuing but took no steps to re-contact IPA. I
find that he was at the very least aware that he had a responsibility to get the leak fixed
when the home insurers surveyor visited on 14* September 2018. And Im satisfied that the
home insurer paid for the repairs up until that date. Mr O didnt get the leak fixed for another
month, but Im not satisfied that IPA has any liability for the repairs or the cost of fixing theleak, beyond that which it has already paid.
*Ive corrected this as it was the actual date of the visit, rather than as I said before, 
4 September, which was the date Mr O contacted his home insurer.
I note Mr Os response. In terms of what I can consider I would agree that the previous 
ombudsman didnt decide on whether IPA had any liability. But that doesnt mean that I can 
reconsider all the evidence about the leak and come to a different conclusion about it. And 
as Ive said, since the ombudsmans findings relate to the same damage and to the same 
incident Im still bound by her conclusions as to the extent of the damage and what was paid 
for in respect of that damage.
As to what Mr O says about the leak, I think it unlikely that, if water was continuously 
showering into the kitchen, the emergency plumber would have not taken any action. 
However, and the previous ombudsman also found this, I find that Mr O was specifically told 
to get a plumber to fix the leak. He didnt do this until after the home insurer visited in 
September 2018.
However, as I said in my provisional findings, the home insurer assessed the damage as at 
the date of its visit on 14 September 2018. It paid for the repairs its surveyor assessed as 
being required as at that date. If IPA had any liability for its plumber failing to fix the leak, it 
discharged that by paying Mr Os plumbers costs of fixing the leak. Mr O says the home 
insurer only awarded some small amount for their error in attending on time and IPA paid 
for the freelance plumber service. Thats not accurate  the home insurer specifically paid 
for the damage visible to its surveyor following their inspection of the property in September 
2018.
Any damage which may have occurred after that date wasnt the responsibility of the home 
insurer nor was it IPAs responsibility, and I note that Mr O took several more weeks to get 
the leak fixed. At best even if IPA was wholly responsible for the damage caused by the 
leak, as the home insurer paid for the damage as at its inspection on 14 September 2018, 
Mr O has already received payment for that. 
So Im satisfied that my provisional findings are correct, and that IPA has no further liability 
to Mr O. My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman