DRN-4349995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Market Harborough Building Society (MHBS) didnt give effect 
to their instructions to transfer the proceeds of a maturing bond to another fixed rate bond 
attracting interest of 2.75%. Instead, the proceeds were invested in line with the default 
option  an account attracting 0.25%. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held around £170,000 in a 2 year fixed rate bond with MHBS. The bond was 
due to mature on 31 March 2022, and they were contacted by MHBS before maturity in 
order for them to decide where they wanted the matured funds to be transferred.
Mr and Mrs W called MHBS on 21 March 2022 to discuss the matter and were taken through
the online form they needed to complete in order to provide their instructions properly. In
short they were looking for the proceeds of the bond to be transferred to another bond
attracting interest of 1.76% (bond 87).
During this call MHBS explained step by step to Mr and Mrs W what they needed to do
based on their election  which was to transfer to another bond. They talked through what
Mr and Mrs W were seeing on the screen, and confirmed the details with Mr and Mrs W 
including the bond they wanted to reinvest in, and the amount (reinvest all). They confirmed
each step in the application over the phone.
At the end of the process, Mr and Mrs W reached the summary screen which set out where
the money was going to be re-invested. When the advisor asked them to click continue,
however, nothing happened. Mr W explained that nothing was happening, and it became
apparent theyd omitted to tick the box saying theyd read the terms  which they did. But
when clicking continue again, Mr W clearly explained that he was seeing an error  he told
the advisor he saw a message that said reinvestment option has not been selected. The
advisor explains to Mr W what he needed to select in the dropdown box again where he
needed to select reinvest all. Mr W did this as instructed, and ticked the box which said he
had read and accepted the terms and conditions. Having completed this screen correctly,
Mr W eventually reached a screen that gave him the summary of his instructions  to which
the advisor explained he needed to click continue.
At this point Mr W said he could see a button saying send authorisation request  and the
advisor instructed him to press that. Mr W read out the next message authorisation and
then the next button refresh and asked the advisor whether this meant it had gone through.
The advisor said thats the one, and instructed him to press refresh which he did. The
advisor then confirmed thats all completed for you.
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs W, the instructions were not properly received by MHBS and
so on maturity, the funds were transferred to the default account, attracting a much lower
rate of interest. So they complained.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2023. In it I said:
The key issue in this case is the phone call of 21 March 2022 and whether or not a valid
instruction was provided at that point in time. Whilst I note what MHBS has said about that
call, I fundamentally disagree.
At minute 12.03 of that phone call its very clear that Mr W explains that he had seen an
error message, and describes the message he was seeing. The advisor talks him through
that page again, and asks him to select once more the appropriate dropdown, which he
does. At that point he explains each screen he sees, including the send authorisation
request screen  Im satisfied he was clearly reading what he was seeing on the screen,
and the advisor appeared satisfied that he was moving correctly through the application. At
the point he receives confirmation of the authorisation, the advisor confirms that this had all
been completed.
Bearing in mind the above, Im therefore satisfied that as far as Mr and Mrs W were
concerned, they had provided a valid instruction to MHBS  and they were entitled to expect
that instruction to be executed on their behalf. In my view, whatever issue subsequently
happened with that instruction, it isnt something Mr and Mrs W ought to bear the financial
consequences of. I say this because Im not persuaded it had anything to do with something
they did or didnt do. For those reasons, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs W ought to be
compensated.
And that compensation ought to be the interest they wouldve received had their instruction
been executed correctly  from the point the funds wouldve been transferred to the date of
their complaint. Ive chosen the date of their complaint as the end date because at that point,
they wouldve been able to take action with these funds and decide where else to invest
them.
It's also clear to me that this matter has caused them understandable inconvenience  as
well as the distress of being told it was their fault for not submitting the instructions properly,
when in reality they had followed to the letter what the advisor had told them to do.
Im satisfied that an award of £150 each is fair and reasonable compensation for that
distress.
MHBS did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs W accepted my findings, but 
said that they were investing in a bond paying 2.75%, not 1.76% as I said in my provisional 
decision. They asked that I reconsider my award in light of this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has disputed my provisional findings, and therefore I confirm them as final. Mr 
and Mrs W have however queried the interest Im awarding. Theyve said they were 
investing in a bond paying 2.75% and so compensation should be calculated with reference 
to that.
 
However, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I cannot find any evidence that such a bond 
was available to them in March 2022. 
The maturity letter dated 16 March 2022 offers the option of reinvesting in Fixed Term Bond 
87 paying 1.76% annual interest. And in their call on 21 March 2022, at around the 9min 30 
second mark the adviser says, in relation to which bond Mr W had to choose:Did it say bond 87? to which Mr W replies yes bond 87. The adviser then clarifies I think 
thats interest rate 1.76% and Mr W says yeah. The adviser then recaps the terms of the 
bond  2 year fixed at an interest rate of 1.76%. 
The only reference I can see to an account paying 2.75% is in MHBSs final response letter 
dated 5 September 2022. However, this simply makes reference to accounts available at 
that time, and not the bond that Mr and Mrs W were looking to reinvest in earlier in the year. 
It wouldnt be fair to use a rate that was available in September 2022, but not available in 
March 2022 as a benchmark. Therefore Im satisfied that if MHBS had correctly dealt with 
their instructions, they wouldve been invested in bond 87 paying 1.76%, and thats what I 
award. 
Putting things right
Therefore, in order to put things right, Market Harborough Building Society must pay 
compensation. It must:
Calculate how much interest Mr and Mrs Ws money wouldve earned had it been 
reinvested, in line with their instructions, in Fixed Term Bond 87 paying 1.76%.
It must use the 1 April 2022 as the start date and 22 August 2022 as the end date for 
that calculation, this being the date of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
It can deduct the 0.25% interest it paid Mr and Mrs W during that period, this being 
the default interest it was applying to this money. If it did not pay this interest to Mr 
and Mrs W it must not make this deduction. 
It must pay Mr W £150 and Mrs W £150 for the distress and inconvenience its 
actions have caused them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Market Harborough Building 
Society must pay the compensation Ive set out above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr 
and Mrs W have accepted this final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman