DRN-3185251
The complaint
Mr H complains that gocompare.com Limited misled him and failed to honour the 
commitment it had made in the free excess cover policy he had with it.
What happened
Mr Hs motor insurer decided his car should be written off after an accident, so it made a 
total loss payment to him and deducted the agreed £150 policy excess. Mr H thought 
gocompare should then have paid him the sum that was deducted for the excess. He said its 
adverts and the other information it made available to consumers didnt make it clear that a 
deducted policy excess couldnt be claimed for under gocompares policy until liability was 
decided and the motor claim was fully settled. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint. He explained to Mr H that the motor 
claim had to be settled - per gocompares terms and conditions - in order to claim for the 
deducted policy excess. As Mr H disagreed, the complaint was passed to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H thinks the details gocompare provides generally about its excess cover policy are 
misleading. I think it has shown that it states on its website - and in its correspondence about 
the policy before and after it is accepted - that a claim must be settled before a consumer 
can claim for the excess deducted by the motor insurer. In my opinion, the wording is clear 
enough. The policy doesnt say a claim can be made on it once a motor insurer makes a 
payment on a claim under the motor policy. 
Mr H believes that because the motor insurer considered his claim for the damage to his car, 
decided to pay out for it and deducted the excess from the payment, it has settled his claim 
for the vehicle. But Its standard industry practice for motor insurers to pay for the repair of a 
damaged car (or to make a total loss payment) under the motor policy whilst a dispute about 
liability for the accident carries on. A claim isnt settled until liability has been established, 
regardless of any payments made prior to that by a motor insurer. 
I dont think Mr H has lost out as a result of having gocompares policy but not being able to 
make a claim on it until liability has been settled. If he hadnt had the policy, hed have had to 
wait until liability was established anyway. As gocompare advised Mr H in its final response 
to his complaint, if liability is decided in a consumers favour, the excess deducted by the 
motor insurer is paid by the other party to the accident. But gocompares policy would allow 
Mr H to claim for the deducted policy excess if he were held liable for the accident. 
In my opinion, gocompare hasnt acted unreasonably. If Mr H still thinks its advertising of the 
product to the public is misleading, hes aware that he may raise that issue elsewhere.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman