DRN-2922087
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are complaining about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) giving them
incorrect information about the early repayment charge (ERC) that would apply when they
repaid their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a fixed rate mortgage with NatWest, over a term of 27 years. The main 
part of their mortgage, around £174,000, was on a two-year fixed rate product, which 
ended on 31 October 2021. They also had an outstanding balance of just under £10,000 
on a different two-year fixed rate product, which ended on 30 April 2020.
Mr and Mrs B were intending to move house. In late February 2020 they contacted 
NatWest to ask how much the ERC would be if they repaid their mortgage.
NatWests adviser told Mr and Mrs B that the ERC would be 2% of the outstanding 
balance  but on 1 May 2020 it would reduce to 1% of the outstanding balance.
Mr and Mrs B said theyd intended to move in April but after speaking to NatWest, they 
decided to delay their purchase until after 1 May 2020, to save some money on the 
ERC.
On 3 June 2020 Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors contacted NatWest for a redemption statement 
calculated for 15 June 2020. The redemption statement showed the ERC for the main part 
of the mortgage would be 2% of the outstanding balance. The solicitors called NatWest on 
12 June 2020 to ask about this, and it became clear NatWests adviser had given Mr and 
Mrs B incorrect information about the ERC reducing to 1% on 1 May 2020. In fact, the 
ERC would be 2% of the outstanding balance until 31 October 2020. After that, it would 
revert to 1% of the outstanding balance until 31 October 2021.
Mr and Mrs B went ahead with the move as planned, but theyd budgeted for an ERC of 
1%. The difference between what they expected to pay and what they needed to pay was 
around £1,700. They complained to NatWest about what had happened.
NatWest looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. They agreed their adviser had made a 
mistake when they told Mr and Mrs B the ERC would reduce to 1% after 1 May 2020. 
They recognised this had caused Mr and Mrs B some inconvenience and arranged to 
pay £75 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy with NatWests response and referred their complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He didnt think Mr and Mrs B 
had suffered a financial loss due to the incorrect information. And he thought £75 in 
compensation was fair.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They said (in summary) that they were out of pocket after 
paying a higher ERC than they expected, because they needed to borrow money to pay 
their removal costs. And they didnt think £75 was enough compensation.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 7 July 2021.
I provisionally decided that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld, although 
perhaps not in the way theyd expect. This is because I didnt think the compensation of 
£75 NatWest had paid to Mr and Mrs B was fair, so I thought NatWest should pay Mr 
and Mrs B a further £175. But I didnt think NatWest should refund part of the ERC as Mr 
and Mrs B had requested. This is what I said then:
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Bs product switch offer for when they moved to their fixed rate 
product in July 2019, and I can see that under section 7 it sets out that an ERC of 2% of 
the outstanding balance would apply to the main part of their mortgage if it was repaid 
before 31 October 2020. So I think the 2% ERC applied by NatWest in June 2020 was in 
line with their agreement with Mr and Mrs B.
NatWest accept they gave Mr and Mrs B incorrect information about the ERC reducing 
to 1%. So, in order to put things right I need to consider how NatWests mistake 
impacted Mr and Mrs B, by considering the position theyd be in now if theyd not been 
given the incorrect information.
Mr and Mrs B have asked for the difference between the ERC they expected to pay, and 
the ERC they actually paid, to be refunded to them. In other words, theyd like to be put in 
the position they would have been in if the ERC had reduced to 1% on 1 May 2020, as 
theyd been told by NatWest.
If Mr and Mrs B had been given the correct information during the call in February 2020 
they would have known the correct ERC amount earlier than they did, and would have 
had more time to arrange their moving finances accordingly. But it would always have 
been necessary for them to pay a 2% ERC if they repaid their mortgage before 31 
October 2020. They havent paid a higher ERC than they should have. So I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to ask NatWest to repay them the difference.
I can understand Mr and Mrs B may have delayed looking for a property for a few months 
once theyd been given the incorrect information  as they didnt want to move until after 
the date they thought the ERC would reduce. But I dont think there was any guarantee 
they would have moved sooner than they did, even if theyd been given the correct 
information about the ERC. Theyve not mentioned any additional charges or fees 
incurred as a direct result of delaying their purchase until after 1 May 2020. And I havent 
seen anything to show Mr and Mrs B were in the process of buying a property at the time 
they were given incorrect information about the ERC.
So, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Mr and Mrs B have suffered a financial 
loss due to NatWests mistake.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs B have said about the stress and upset 
NatWests mistake caused them. I can see from NatWests notes that Mr and Mrs B didnt 
find out about the incorrect information until they were in the final stages of their purchase. 
Because of the incorrect information theyd naturally budgeted for a lower ERC, and they say theyd earmarked their remaining funds for the cost of removals. The ERC was around
£1,700 more than they expected  which is quite a large sum of money to find at 
short notice. I can understand how this would have been very stressful for them.
NatWest have paid Mr and Mrs B £75 in compensation. But I dont think this is enough to 
compensate them for the impact NatWests mistake had on them. I think NatWest should 
pay Mr and Mrs B a further £175 in addition to the £75 theyve already paid  to result in 
total compensation of £250. I think this is fair and reasonable, and in line with awards 
weve made in similar circumstances.
I asked both parties to respond with any further points they wished to make before I issued 
my final decision.
Mr and Mrs B replied to my provisional decision to say they accepted it. NatWest also replied 
to say they accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party had anything to add after my provisional decision, and both parties said they 
accepted it. So I see no reason to change my provisional decision that further compensation 
of £175 is fair and reasonable, taking into account all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs B £175 (in addition to the £75 
theyve already paid to them) in full and final settlement of their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman