DRN-1834952
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy about the service they received from Connells Limited when 
they were arranging a mortgage to buy a new home in 2019. They say:
The mortgage was mis-sold because the broker told them thered be no product 
fee but there was a £995 product fee.
 
The broker fraudulently used Mrs Ks bank card for someone elses 
mortgage application with a different lender, which is a breach of data protection 
laws.
The product fee was added to the mortgage when they wanted to pay it upfront. 
The broker told them they could then pay the fee after completion, but when they 
tried to do so the lender said it was too late. It was only after completion the broker 
told them they could have paid the product fee at any time up to completion. By 
adding the fee to the mortgage Mr and Mrs K say this means theyll pay an extra 
£840 over the ten-year fixed rate period. 
 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month; a copy of which is attached to, and forms 
part of, this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I was minded to uphold 
this complaint in part. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before 
I reached a final decision.
Connells accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs K said they wanted to comment on 
the point of the mortgage not being mis-sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs K said:
"I have read the email and would like to comment on the point of the mortgage not being 
missold. The mortgage advisor had researched available mortgages in advance of the 
appointment with us and there was never a mortgage without fees available. We advised the 
mortgage advisor that we had seen a mortgage with the fees attached. The mortgage 
advisor told us that they could get the same mortgage but with no fees. I provided a 
document in my initial email regarding not complaint to show that there was never a 
mortgage available without fees at the time of our appointment. The mortgage advisor effectively deceived us into thinking they had a better deal that the deal we had found 
ourselves so that we would go with them rather than arrange the mortgage ourselves so that 
they would receive commission. If you would like me to provide the mortgage search that 
was conducted by the mortgage advisor please let me know."
I dealt with this part of the complaint in my provisional decision, I've copied the extract below 
for Mr and Mrs K:
"Mr and Mrs K have said the mortgage was mis-sold because the broker told them thered 
be no product fee but there was a £995 product fee. This information was corrected the 
following morning giving Mr and Mrs K the opportunity to not proceed with the mortgage 
(and/or with the broker) once they knew the true picture. Mr and Mrs K chose to proceed 
with the mortgage through the broker therefore I cant conclude the mortgage was mis-sold 
as they opted to proceed after being made aware of the true facts. If Mr and Mrs K had 
chosen to withdraw at that point then any fee that had been paid to the broker could have 
been refunded if it had only been paid due to wrong information. By instead opting to 
proceed Mr and Mrs K did so in full awareness of the mortgage they were applying for."
So Mr and Mrs K can see that I've agreed with them that the fee wasn't disclosed at the 
initial meeting. But I don't need to decide why that happened (that is, whether it was an 
innocent oversight by the adviser, or a wilful attempt to deceive) because it doesn't change 
the fact Mr and Mrs K opted to still go ahead the following day once they had the correct 
information.
At that point if Mr and Mrs K wanted to arrange the mortgage themselves with the lender 
(rather than through the adviser, so she would receive commission) then they could have 
done so. I As I said in my provisional decision, if Mr and Mrs K had chosen to withdraw 
instead, then any fee paid to the broker at that point could have been refunded if it was 
found to have only been paid due to wrong information. Instead, Mr and Mrs K made the 
decision to continue with Connells in full awareness of the facts therefore there are no 
grounds for me to say the mortgage was mis-sold.
Ive reviewed all the submissions carefully, and considered the case afresh, but my opinion 
hasnt changed. I uphold this complaint in part for all the reasons given in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint in part and order Connells Limited to:
Calculate the interest Mr and Mrs K paid on the £995 product fee from 10 May to 
1 July 2019 and pay that as compensation to them. Interest should also be added 
onto that sum from 1 July 2019 to the date of settlement at 8% simple a year. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Connells to take off tax from the 8% simple 
interest. Connells must give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.
 
Pay £400 compensation to Mr and Mrs K for the customer service failings. The 
£400 is instead of the £300 offered by Connells in its response to the complaint, its 
not on top of it. If the £300 has already been paid then itll just be a further £100 due.
 
My final decisionI uphold this complaint in part and order Connells Limited to pay compensation as I've set 
out above. I make no other order or award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 
2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman