DRN-3031220
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
April 1995. Mr and Mrs S says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS), then trading as Halifax, 
mis-sold them PPI.
The mortgage was held jointly by Mr and Mrs S but only Mr S was covered by the PPI.  
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like the one to Mr and Mrs S. I havent set out that 
detailed information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Unfortunately, the paperwork from the time of the sale is no longer available. But from 
what Ive seen in PPI sales like this its likely that Mr S would have had the opportunity to 
decide whether or not he wanted to take out PPI cover. Ive also seen screenshot 
evidence showing that Mr S gave answers to questions to show he was eligible for the 
policy when he agreed to take it out. 
Having seen that Mr and Mrs S bought the PPI at a meeting in a branch, it looks likely 
that BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. That means it had to check that the 
PPI was right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the 
time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For 
example Mr S was eligible for the cover and although he and Mrs S had some existing 
means, I think they still had a need for cover. Mr S has told us he had death in service 
benefits and also entitlement to redundancy pay but these would only come into play in 
the specific situations where Mr S were to die or face a redundancy situation at his work. 
There was nothing about Mr Ss employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for them to claim. And Mr S hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his own ability to claim. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs S as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs S would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ss particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman