DRN-4167010
The complaint
Mr P complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED trading as Fund Ourselves irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
The complaint is about three instalment loans Fund Ourselves lent to Mr P between 
February 2022 and October 2022. Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows;
Loan 
number Start dateLoan 
amount Term Repayment End date
1 27/02/2022 £650 4 months £315.90 09/05/2022
2 28/05/2022 £250 4 months £123.50 27/08/2022
3 13/10/2022 £500 5 months £200 n/a
Our adjudicator didnt think Fund Ourselves was wrong to lend any of the loans and so she 
didnt recommend that any part of Mr Ps complaint be upheld.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fund Ourselves needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr P could repay the loans without the need to borrow further or suffer financial detriment. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Fund Ourselves should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors 
include:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
At the time of lending all three loans Fund Ourselves asked Mr P about his income and 
verified using tools from the credit reference agencies. It also searched Mr Ps credit file. 
These checks showed Mr Ps income for loan 1 was £2,879 and for loans 2 and 3 it was 
£3,109. Mr P declared his living costs including credit commitments for loan 1 £2,184, loan 2 
- £2,058 and loans 3 - £1,991
Mr Ps credit file showed he had historic defaults and several active accounts which he 
largely showed a good repayment history. He was in arrears in some of those accounts but 
the balances on them were reducing. There was nothing to suggest Mr P was reliant on 
short term lending.
Mr P had a number of revolving credit accounts and Ive estimated that hed be repaying 
around 5% towards his balance monthly. So, for loan 1, Mr Ps monthly credit commitments 
were around £1,100. It increased to around £1,850 for loan 2 and by loan 3, it was around 
£1,100. Taking these credit commitments into account and Mr Ps income, hed have had 
sufficient income to cover his reasonable living costs, meet his monthly repayments and be 
left with some disposable income.
So, while there was some adverse information on Mr Ps credit file, I dont think they should 
have prompted further checks or prevented Fund Ourselves from lending to Mr P. Overall, 
Fund Ourselves checks went far enough and those checks suggested Mr P could afford the 
loan repayments over their terms. In the circumstances, Fund Ourselves wasnt wrong to 
lend.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman