DRN-3085919
The complaint
Mr C believes Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing a loan hed applied for.
What happened
In February 2010, Mr C took out a £2,000 loan with Everyday, to be repaid over 13 months 
with monthly repayments of £229.67. 
Mr C has complained that Everyday didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. Hes 
said the loan wasnt affordable at the time, as he was already borrowing from Payday 
Lenders and had two credit cards. Mr C also said that having this loan caused him to fall 
further into debt, and that he had to borrow money to keep up the payments. But Everyday 
didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly, so Mr C brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Everyday had checked Mr Cs credit file at the time of application, 
as well as reviewing his payslips and bank statements to check affordability. And she 
thought these were reasonable and proportionate checks given the circumstances.
The investigator also said that the checks Everyday did showed that the loan was affordable 
to Mr C at the time of the application. So she thought theyd made a fair lending decision. 
And she didnt think Everyday needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that his living expenses showing on his bank statement exceeded 
the amount the investigator had used, and that his Payday loan payments were £700 a 
month, not £150. So he thinks that Everyday failed to see what was really going on with his 
finances. Hes also said that the comment on the loan agreement saying that he was aware 
that he had to make repayments no matter what shows the lending was irresponsible, as it 
meant that he had no choice but to borrow money to pay back the loan.
Because Mr C didnt agree, this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
C would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Everyday didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Cs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
In his application to Everyday, Mr C said that he was single, had no dependents; and was 
living with his parents, paying £150 a month board. He also declared that hed been with the 
same employer for 10 years and was earning £1,400 a month.
Mr C applied for a £2,000 over 13-months, with monthly payments of £229.67. So the 
amount of the loan, and the monthly repayments, were both relatively low considering Mr Cs 
declared circumstances. Because of this, Id expect Everyday to carry out checks 
proportionate to the loan applied for.
Everyday have said they carried out credit, employment, affordability and identity checks. 
Ive seen that they checked Mr Cs credit file, his latest payslip, and his last months bank 
statements. When considering all of the above, Im satisfied that these checks were 
reasonable and proportionate. And I wouldnt expect Everyday to do anything more.
Did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
Ive seen a copy of the checks Everyday checked when they assessed Mr Cs application. 
Mr C declared an income of £1,400 a month. But the payslip and bank statement he 
provided showed a monthly income of £1,618.40. When calculating Mr Cs income and 
expenditure to see if the loan was affordable, Everyday used the lower of these two figures. 
And I think that was reasonable. 
The credit file shows that Mr C was a total of £761 overdrawn on two overdraft accounts 
(with overdraft limits totalling £840); and that he had two credit cards with total outstanding 
balances of £1,030 (with total credit limits of £1,200). The bank statements show that Mr C 
paid £88 a month in overdraft fees, and £143.93 a month to his credit cards.
The credit file also showed to settled defaults, dating back to 2005. Different lenders have 
different criteria, and I wouldnt expect Everyday to automatically decline the application 
because of historic settled defaults. But I would expect them to take these into consideration 
with any lending decision.
The bank statements show that, although Mr C was using his overdraft facility, he wasnt 
exceeding the agreed limit. They also show that he was transferring money into, and out of, 
a savings account. Which would indicate that he had additional money to fall back on if he 
needed to. The bank statements also show that Mr C paid £95.85 a month for his mobile 
phone, £12.12 a month for a TV Licence, and that he had an outstanding Payday loan.As part of his application, Mr C had told Everyday that he intended to use part of the money 
to repay his overdrafts and the Payday loan. Mr C has provided details of the loans hes 
taken, and these show that the overdrafts and Payday loan were repaid after he took the 
Everyday loan.  
Taking all of the above into consideration, Mr C had a monthly income of £1,400, and 
monthly outgoings of £401.90 (after the overdrafts and Payday loan had been repaid). This 
would leave him with a disposable income of £998.10 a month from which to pay Everydays 
payment of £229.67. Which would still leave Mr C with £768.43 a month  more than 50% of 
the income used in the affordability calculation. Based on these figures, the loan was 
affordable to Mr C at the time of application.
So, for the reasons stated above, Im satisfied Everyday made a fair lending decision based 
on the information they had available to them. They didnt act irresponsibly when approving 
the loan. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr C has said that Everyday made him aware that he needed to maintain payments on the 
loan. And that they made a note of this on the application paperwork. As with any loan from 
any lender, theres an expectation that the payments are maintained, and paid on a regular 
basis. So I dont think Everyday acted unfairly or unreasonably by reminding Mr C of this.
Whats more, if Mr C fell into financial difficulties during the course of the loan, Id expect 
Everyday to deal with any request for assistance sympathetically. But Mr C didnt contact 
Everyday at the point he felt he needed to start relying on Payday lending again. And I cant 
say that Everyday acted unfairly or unreasonably by not acting upon something they werent 
aware of.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman