DRN-2955218
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) handled his request for a refund 
of a payment he made using his HSBC credit card. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr O booked a weeks stay at a hotel in Morocco with a travel agent I shall 
call S. The stay was due to take place between 20 March 2020 and 27 March 2020. Mr O 
paid £602 to S. 
Not long before Mr O was due to stay at the hotel, the UK government began issuing 
guidance on restricting movement in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. On 16 March 2020, it 
advised against all unnecessary travel and social contact. On 17 March 2020, it advised 
against all unnecessary travel abroad. Schools and childcare facilities closed on 18 March 
2020, followed by pubs, bars and restaurants the following day. On 23 March 2020, the UK 
went in to full lockdown
On 15 March 2020 Morocco suspended all international passenger flights to and from the 
country. On the same day Mr O emailed S enquiring about a refund in view of the fact he 
would be unable to travel to Morocco to make his stay. 
S told Mr O that it could offer him a credit note for future use with no expiry date. Mr O has 
said he didnt accept this and subsequently contacted HSBC in late April 2020 to request a 
refund. Mr O has said he was told by HSBC that it could take up to 60 days for his dispute to 
be resolved.  He has also said that the person he dealt with on this call didnt appear to know 
how to properly raise his dispute
Mr O contacted HSBC on a number of occasions after this and each time he was told that it 
was taking longer to assess disputes due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
HSBC told Mr O in July 2020 that it wouldnt be able to assist with his dispute as it appeared 
the hotel was open for business and a claim made via the chargeback process would be 
unlikely to succeed. It then changed its position somewhat and offered to attempt a 
chargeback  subject to Mr O completing its disputes form. By this time Mr O said hed 
provided all of the necessary information to HSBC so didnt return the form. 
HSBC told Mr O it had credited his account with £50 in view of the time it had taken to look 
at his dispute and the calls he had made to it in the meantime. 
Mr O was not happy with HSBCs response to his complaint and referred the matter to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
On 8 September S refunded Mr O the cost of the booking in full. 
The investigator thought that HSBC did perhaps have enough information to raise a 
chargeback in July 2020 and that it appeared the hotel may have been closed at the time of 
his booking. So, she thought a chargeback may have succeeded if raised. She also found 
that HSBC had taken longer than it told Mr O it would to respond to his dispute. She said 
however that HSBC had done enough to compensate Mr O for anything that went wrong 
with its handling of his dispute and that £50 was fair compensation for this. 
Mr O disagreed with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman review his complaint. 
He thinks more should be done about the incompetence he believes has been displayed by 
HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained how chargeback works in her assessment of Mr Os 
complaint so I wont set out that same information again in this decision. 
Its possible a chargeback might have succeeded if HSBC had raised one in July 2020. 
Especially seeing as S ultimately refunded Mr O not long after this so may well have 
conceded on a chargeback. I havent explored this further however because even if I thought 
that HSBC should have raised a chargeback in July 2020, I dont think the impact on Mr O of 
not doing so warrants further compensation in this case. 
I say this because HSBC reconsidered its position somewhat after telling Mr O it couldnt 
help him and offered to raise a chargeback in mid-July subject to the receipt of a completed 
dispute form. But it doesnt look like Mr O returned this form. While its arguable whether 
HSBC had enough information to raise the chargeback at this point, I dont think its request 
that Mr O complete the form was unreasonable in this case. Given the level of claims HSBC 
was no doubt receiving I can understand why it would want to stick to a process for 
submitting refund claims and Ive not seen anything that makes me think Mr O could not 
have complied with this request in this particular case.  
Mr O says HSBC told him it already had enough information from him before asking him to 
complete the dispute form in later communication. He said he didnt believe he should have 
to provide the same information again so he didnt complete or return the form. Ive listened 
to the telephone calls Mr O had with HSBC in April and May 2020. I agree with the 
investigator that HSBC did not give this impression. Ive also not found any other issues with 
the way these calls were handled either. 
That said there were still some shortcomings in the way HSBC handled Mr Os request for a 
refund. It took around two months before it was even in a position to consider Mr Os dispute 
and this was longer than it told him it would take. It also contacted Mr O by phone when hed 
asked to be contacted by email only. 
I think HSBC could also have considered the position under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 before telling him it would be unable to assist with his dispute.  I dont have 
enough evidence to say whether Mr O had a valid claim or not as weve not been provided 
with the terms of Mr Os contract with S. Because Mr O has received a refund now however, 
I dont consider it necessary to explore that position further anyway.
In considering what, if anything HSBC needs to do to put things right, Ive considered that it 
was an unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, dealing with significant numbers of 
enquiries from consumers looking to get money back as the global pandemic unfolded. 
Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at a very unusual time. I also 
need to consider the operational challenges faced by firms during this period.
Furthermore, its important to note that it was S that caused the problem in the first place by 
not refunding Mr O when it seems it perhaps should have. 
All things considered I think £50 is fair compensation in the circumstances. I know Mr O 
wont be happy with this. Its not however the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
punish a business if it gets things wrong. Rather Im required to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, taking into the account the impact of 
HSBCs actions (or lack thereof) on Mr O.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has paid fair compensation in the circumstances 
of this complaint and does not need to do any more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman