DRN-3316472
The complaint
Mr M complains that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (Options - formerly Carey 
Pensions) accepted his investment into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) when, he 
says, it shouldnt have accepted business from the business who introduced him to Options; 
Caledonian International Associates (Caledonian). Mr M says Options breached the duties it 
had to him as a SIPP provider. Mr M transferred his Armed Forces Pension  a defined 
benefit pension  into the Options SIPP in 2012.
Mr M wants to be put back into the position he would have been in had Options not accepted 
his SIPP application.
The parties involved
Given the various parties involved in Mr Ms pension transfer and subsequent investment 
Ive set out a summary of each below.
Options
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. At the time of the events in this complaint, 
Options was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Options was authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange 
(bring about) deals in investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish, operate 
or wind up a pension scheme, and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments.
Caledonian
Caledonian was the trading name of MMG Associates, which was registered in the British 
Virgin Islands. Caledonian was not authorised in the UK to undertake regulated activities and 
it does not (and did not at the time of the events subject to complaint here) appear on the 
FCAs Financial Services Register. And there is no evidence it was authorised to carry out 
regulated activities (where there was any relevant legislation) in any other jurisdiction.
Business C
Business C is an investment manager. The evidence is that Business C agreed to manage 
or provide oversight of some of the investments taken out by Caledonians customers after 
they had transferred their pensions. I shall call the individual representing Business C, who 
was involved in some of Caledonians general dealings with Options, Mr P.
Friends Provident International
Friends Provident International (FPI) is registered in the Isle of Man. It provided a bond (i.e. 
life assurance) wrapper which allows investment in a number of funds with a number of fund 
providers. Mr M invested in a number of investments within a FPI bond and some of the 
funds are currently suspended.
What happened
Mr M has explained that he was contacted by Caledonian through a referral from a friend 
and, following an initial telephone call, the Caledonian representative visited him at his home 
address in the UK. 
Mr M recalls that the Caledonian representative told him his existing Armed Forces Pension 
was not performing well, and that he would not benefit from remaining in the scheme; 
instead, Caledonian said, he should transfer those funds to a SIPP. Mr M says he was told 
that the investment would make good returns. Hes also explained he had no intentions of 
transferring his existing pension prior to the contact from Caledonian. Hes said there were 
no further meetings.
Mr M has said that he was unemployed at the time with an annual income of less than 
£10,000. He had no investment experience and felt reliant on the advice and assistance of 
the Caledonian representative. So, he agreed to transfer out of the Armed Forces Pension 
scheme, open an Options SIPP and invest in a Friends Provident International (FPI) bond. 
Mr M told us the SIPP provider (Options) and the investment (FPI) were selected by 
Caledonian for him without discussion. He did not know Caledonian would be receiving any 
commission for his business.
The relevant paperwork was signed by Mr M on 26 October 2012. Mr M signed a letter to the 
Armed Forces Pension scheme requesting the transfer, and another letter to the scheme 
which included the following paragraph:
I acknowledge that neither the SIPP Company nor any other Pension Company has 
advised me in respect of my decision to transfer my cash equivalent transfer value, 
from the Ceding Scheme. I acknowledge that the SIPP company has recommended 
that I should seek independent financial advice, before reaching the decision to 
which this letter refers, and I acknowledge that the SIPP company will act upon my 
instructions on an execution only basis
He also signed a letter of authority authorising Options to provide Caledonian with any 
information they may so request in relation to my Scheme and my Scheme's purchase of 
investments.
The paperwork included a separate page-long indemnity form with a table at the start which 
detailed the Member Name, Address, Occupational Scheme name, Occupational Scheme 
type and Adviser. Ill call this the Member Declaration. This was signed by both Mr M and 
the Caledonian representative. The Caledonian representative was named as Adviser and 
the representatives signature was made in the space for Adviser Name in the signature 
box. The declaration included, amongst other statements, the following:
I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.
The declaration concluded with the statement:
I fully indemnify both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees Ltd at all 
times against any and all liability arising from this transaction.Mr Ms SIPP was established on 30 October 2012.
In November 2012 the Armed Forces Pension scheme confirmed the value of Mr Ms 
accrued pension rights  £24,130.17  and the transfer.
Options, as trustees of Mr Ms SIPP, completed the FPI application form for the investment 
portfolio known as Zenith in January 2013. On page 13 of the application section (ix) was 
completed like so:
This application was signed in UK
and the advice was given in Jordan
In the space for Appointment of Investment Adviser, Caledonian International Associates 
was written. And Mr C from Caledonian signed the space for Signature of Adviser.
A Certificate of Non-Solicitation, signed by Mr C of Caledonian, was also sent to FPI. This 
included the following:
We therefore certify that:
i. We do not have a permanent place of business in the United Kingdom; and
ii. We did not approach the above named client
iii. The advice was given in Jordan
iv.The client approached us directly and requested us to give him advice
A sum of £22,797.88 from Mr Ms Armed Forces Pension scheme was then invested with 
FPI on 4 January 2013.
On 10 January 2013 Mr M appointed Business C as his Investment Manager.
A statement of Mr Ms Options account shows Caledonian were paid £250 on 14 February 
2013  this payment was categorised as IFA Fees.
Mr Ms complaint
In June 2019 Mr M complained to Options, via a Claims Management Company (CMC), 
about its acceptance of business from Caledonian.
He said he had been advised by Caledonian to transfer his Armed Forces Pension and 
invest within the SIPP, and that Caledonian had arranged that transfer and investment. He 
had not understood that Caledonian was not regulated and, as a retail client with limited 
investment experience, he had trusted the representatives advice.
Mr M said Options had failed to act in his best interests by accepting his business when 
Options was aware he had not received advice from an authorised and regulated IFA, but 
rather had been introduced by an unregulated firm. He said it ought to have been obvious to 
Options from the circumstances that he was following the advice of Caledonian and that he 
was being assisted by them in arranging the pension transfer and investment. He said 
Options should have refused to facilitate the transfer and investment.Mr M wanted to be put back in the position he would have been in had he retained his 
pension provision with the Armed Forces Pension scheme.
Options response to Mr Ms complaint
Options investigated Mr Ms complaint and gave its final response in August 2019, rejecting 
it. In summary, it said:
As Caledonian was not a firm of regulated advisers and acted only as Mr Ms 
introducer he was classified as a direct client of Options.
Options provides execution only (i.e. non-advised) SIPP administration services and 
this was explained to Mr M in the documents he signed in October 2012.
Options would have been in breach of COBS 11.2.19 if it had not executed Mr Ms 
specific instructions to make the FPI investment  by virtue of this rule Options are 
not liable to Mr M.
Options did not act inappropriately in dealing with Caledonian  Options is not 
restricted to dealing only with regulated brokers.
Options undertook due diligence on Caledonian and had no reason to believe that it 
should not accept introductions from this source, as a result of its investigations, at 
the time it accepted the introduction of Mr M (October 2012).
Caledonian was at all times treated as an unregulated introducer  Options followed 
its strict processes for dealing with unregulated introducers and accepting 
introductions.
Options guided Mr M to seek independent regulated financial advice; if he was not a 
sophisticated investor, he should have sought this.
Options is not permitted to provide advice  this was made clear to Mr M.
By signing the documents Mr M confirmed that he understood the risks associated 
with his choices and that Options was not responsible for any of those decisions.
If Mr M did believe he had received advice, then he should have completed the 
application form for advised clients not for direct clients.
Mr M has failed to establish that an adviser arranged the establishment of the SIPP 
within the meaning of the Regulated Activities Order.
Options acted in accordance with its requirements under COBS 2.1.1 R (the best 
interests rule).
It is not mandatory for an individual to obtain financial advice if they do not wish to do 
so, it is their decision.
Options carried out due diligence on FPI and determined that the investment was 
capable of being held within a SIPP  as SIPP administrator Options is not 
responsible for assessing the suitability of an investment for an individuals personal 
situation.Overall, Options said it had complied with its regulatory and contractual obligations to Mr M 
and was not liable to him for his loss.
Caledonian and Options
Ive set out the background to Mr Ms complaint and his dealings with Caledonian and 
Options above. But alongside those events its important to understand the underlying 
relationship between Caledonian and Options.
Options has said that it carried out due diligence checks on Caledonian and has provided 
supporting evidence of the checks it made.
I have set out below a summary of what I consider to be the key events and/or actions 
during the relationship between Options and Caledonian, which I have observed from the 
available evidence (this includes evidence from Mr Ms case file and submissions Options 
has made to us about its due diligence on, and its relationship with, Caledonian).
In March 2012 a business profile was completed which recorded Options first meeting with 
Mr C of Caledonian where he set out their proposed business model. This detailed that Mr C 
was preferred adviser (my emphasis) for the Armed Forces occupational pension scheme 
for clients who were described as:
30 to 50 year olds
Had been in the armed forces for between 6 to 10 years
Had left the armed forces and wanted to transfer their pension arrangements They 
had no expectation of long-life expectancy
They were living today so wanted to access funds earlier then they could if their 
pension stayed in the armed forces pension scheme
They were generally still resident in UK but some were now living abroad in various 
countries such as Thailand, Germany, Spain etc.
They were now earning quite large salaries circa £70k plus
The business profile detailed that clients were referred to Mr C from his armed forces 
pensions contact or by other clients, and that he was currently putting them into an 
international Friends Provident Bond, the underlying investments were regulated. It went on:
[Mr C] himself was not a regulated adviser, he was a consultant to these clients and 
advised (my emphasis) them on their armed forces transfers only, he was a qualified 
accountant and was a member of the Chartered Institute of Accountants 
He was developing a relationship with [Mr P], and may consider [Business C] as an 
alternative investment provider in due course. Although he was currently wanting a 
relationship with a SIPP provider.
[Mr C] was looking at volume business in the region of 50 schemes a month.
On 16 March 2012 Mr C signed and dated Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile. The 
form began:As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out 
In the company information section Mr C explained that Caledonian had been trading since 
1997 and had branches in Chile, Peru, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil and Switzerland. He 
went on to detail that they dealt with the following products:
Offshore savings plans + investment bonds  Friends Provident International + 
Generali
And indicated that these products had been accepted by other SIPP providers, including 
Options, and hadnt been declined by any pension scheme operators.
Under the heading Sales and Marketing Approach the document detailed that clients would 
be obtained by referral and that the sales process would be:
Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit
A question on the form about typical commission structure was answered:
7% up front from bond  0.5% trail
Under the heading Training and Information Mr C explained that agents were provided with 
ongoing product training and accompanied meetings and that their pensions training was 
delivered through visits to providers directly. He went on to say that the business produced 
by agents was monitored by:
Full administrative structure  Caledonian, Careys  compliance, FPI  compliance
Under the heading Legal and Regulatory Information Mr C confirmed that Caledonian didnt 
work with any Financial Services Authority (FSA) regulated company or adviser, wasnt a 
member of any professional or industry body, had no professional indemnity insurance, and 
hadnt been subject to any FSA supervisory visits or censure.
In response to the question: What measures are in place to ensure the Firm engage legal 
advice on the activities it carries out to ensure regulated activities are not carried out? the 
response read:
Majority of business carried out in unregulated jurisdictions but where regulations 
apply we are licensed to carry out our activities.
To the question: How does the firm demonstrate it is treating its customers fairly? the 
response read:
Compliance & Procedures in current alignment with FSA TCF.
Mr Cs other responses on the form were that Caledonians business objective was to 
continue to develop a fully compliant business of PT to HM Forces and that with regards to 
member-directed pension scheme business they were looking to achieve compliant 
business in a regulated structure.On 23 March 2012 Options asked Mr C by email for a copy of Caledonians latest company 
accounts and a certified copy of each directors/principals passport. Options chased a 
response to this email on 3 April. A Senior Consultant at Caledonian then supplied a copy of 
Mr Cs passport (uncertified) and said theyd ask Mr C about the accounts when he returned 
from a trip. On 4 April Mr C emailed Options:
 my apologies for not having replied before now  I am back tomorrow Thursday 
and will have te [sic] appropriate documents over to you early next week 
On 27 April 2012 Options started to receive introductions from Caledonian (Options has 
confirmed there were 509 introductions to it made by Caledonian between 27 April 2012 and 
20 May 2013).
On 1 August 2012, ahead of a compliance audit, a Team Leader at Options contacted 
Caledonian to ask again for the certified passports and annual accounts. In an internal email 
the Team Leader confirmed shed spoken with Mr C and hed be sending an urgent request 
for the documentation we require.
On 4 September 2012 a Non-regulated Introducer Agreement Terms of Business 
document between Options and MMG Associates Ltd T/A Caledonian International 
Associates was signed and dated by Mr C and Options CEO. That agreement included, 
amongst other terms, the following undertaking:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by 
the Act in relation to the SIPP  for the avoidance of doubt this includes reference to 
advice on the selection of The SIPP Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, 
taking benefits and HMRC rules;
On that agreement document Mr C gave an address in Switzerland as the business address.
Options has said that these terms of business were received by Caledonian in March 2012 - 
and so it seems there was a delay in Mr C signing and returning them.
On 1 November 2012 Options conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which 
allows subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on two 
Caledonian employees  one of which was Mr C. This check did not reveal any issues.
Options has said that in early 2013, it appointed a dedicated in-house compliance officer 
and they enhanced the compliance framework within the firm, compliance monitoring 
programme and risk assessment.
On 7 March 2013 an internal email was sent by an Options Manager to several other 
Options employees summarising a call shed held with Mr C. The summary included these 
key points:
Options had explained that following recent FSA reviews and guidance SIPP 
providers were being asked to look at business received from their introducers 
against expectations of type and profile.
Options explained that several applications received recently had moved away from 
the expected profile of client and queried whether the profile was 
changing/extending.Mr C explained that predominantly the members were in the close protection 
industry which as @5 years ago they all went into. He said that foreign operatives 
were now coming in in a more organised structure. Some were getting promoted into 
senior positions. Many were previously divers in the military and so going into Diving 
elsewhere.
Options asked Mr C to put together a note for its CEO to update Caledonians 
business profile and expectations.
On 20 March 2013 the Options Manager sent Mr C an email following up on their 
conversation. Options asked again for an update as to the changes in profile, and 
highlighted that a further two applications had been received for individuals outside of the 
expected profile.
Options has provided a document titled Overseas Introducer Assessment Proforma. This 
document is undated but, given that it refers to recently received business outside of profile 
and also the World Check completed in November 2012 I think its likely to have been 
completed around the end of March 2013, and certainly no earlier than November 2012.
I have set out below what I consider to be the most relevant parts of the form recorded, and 
the level of risk that was noted:
Heading Notes Risk
Section 1 - Company Assessment
Google Search and 
FCANo adverse comments Low
Regulatory Cannot find any regulatory information from the details 
heldHigh
Company No UK branch. Cannot see any EEA regulatory details  
Unknown company establishment time  cannot find any 
details from information received. No accounts 
requested? No Articles of association requested? / 
receivedMainly 
Medium
Compliance Officer Unknown if have compliance officer or not High
Professional 
QualificationsNo qualifications documented other than meeting note 
from March 2012 where [Mr C] stated he was a qualified 
accountant High
Meeting Meeting held at Carey Pensions UK office March 2012 Medium
Section 2 - Advice/Client Profile/InvestmentAdvice Unregulated  No details of how advice given. No 
regulatory bodies / permissions seen. Although suggested 
on email that advice given in Jordan? Advice possibly 
given in Jordan, although not sure if true for UK based 
clients.
It was also noted that the funds for investment within the 
SIPP were to be generated from:
Transfers from Armed Forces Pension occupational 
scheme.High
Client Profile Client Profile: 30-50 years old. Part of armed forces 6- 10 
years. Generally still UK residents, some abroad.
Now working in security earning c. £70k pa. HOWEVER, 
recently received business outside of profile.High
Investment Initially Friends Provident International bond. Now using 
James Brearley. Both FCA regulated.Low
At the end of the Company Assessment section the overall result was recorded as Amber, 
a result described as Queries to raise. The wording against this result read:
Company details are a mixture of Green and Amber raise with technical review 
committee before proceeding.
The overall result at the end of the Advice/Client Profile/Investment section was recorded 
as Red, a result described as Decline.
On 26 April 2013 an Options Compliance Officer sent an email to several other Options 
employees titled Review of relationship with Caledonian. It began:
We have a responsibility to proactively monitor our distribution channels to ensure 
our products do not end up with customers for whom it is not suitable. Based on 
recent correspondence with Caledonian I am increasingly concerned by their 
business practices and therefore believe we should review our relationship with them 
and the business they have introduced. I will arrange a meeting for next week to 
discuss. In the meantime we need to determine the answers to the questions below 
to help facilitate our discussions.
The Options Compliance Officer then set out 18 questions and statements about Caledonian 
and the relationship with Options and invited recipients of the email to please provide 
answers to the following where you can.
On 30 April 2013 another member of the compliance team inserted her answers and 
comments:
Overview of business
Date relationship commenced: April/May 2012What is the agreed profile of clients introduced by Caledonian: Ex Armed Forces 
Approx age 38, working in the Close protection industry (security), earnings of 
Approx £70k
Number of clients introduced: 497 (363 now invested, 134 ongoing)
Value of investments held: £16m
Nature of investments, i.e. any alternative investments: Friends Provident Int. 
(Funds) or, [Business J] Investment Platform with [Business C] acting as DFM.
Number of complaints from Caledonian introduced clients: None
How many transfers were also accompanied by a TVAS [Transfer Value Analysis]? 
Who has provided the TVAS? 37  Only TVs over £100k (from Armed Forces 
Pension) or any amount no matter how small on other TVs. TVAS provided by 
[Mr P] ([Business C])
Overview of Caledonian
What due diligence was undertaken on Caledonian prior to establishing the 
relationship?  Unknown but AML was received.
Location of head office: Geneva, Switzerland
Do they have a business address in the UK? They confirm that they do not have a 
permanent place of business in the UK, however they have a business address 
for correspondence and [Mr C] is based in the UK [address]
Where do they meet with clients, i.e. in the UK? Unknown.
What is Caledonian's regulatory status, i.e. are they regulated in their home 
jurisdiction? [Mr C] - The Chartered Insurance Institute - ID Number XXXXX. [Mr 
C] certifies all ID and signs the investment Application Form.
Are they regulated to provide advice in their home jurisdiction? Unknown
They have confirmed that they provide advice in Jordan. How does this work? Do 
they have a place of business in Jordan? Do they need to be regulated in Jordan to 
provide advice? Unknown - Caledonian provide a Non Solicitation Letter which 
is sent to Friends Provident with the investment App. A copy of a Non 
Solicitation Letter is attached
How did we establish Caledonians knowledge of SIPPs and UK pension rules? 
Unknown
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? 
Yes due to illustrations
Do Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? Caledonian send to 
us the Friends Provident Investment Applications with the Application to set 
up the SIPP. The funds table in the investment App is pre-populated by Caledonian. The Member does see a copy of this document - which we send to 
them prior to investing their funds.
What due diligence did we undertake on [Business C]? Unknown
A further reply was made later on 30 April 2013 by Options CEO. She wrote:
To add to [Options employees] information. I attach a business profile which details 
how the relationship emerged with Caledonian which provides background 
information, also the process notes that were agreed at a meeting held in our old MK 
offices which was a workshop to present our SIPP proposition and understand their 
business better In answer to some of [Options employees] unknowns
Where do they meet with clients? Generally abroad depending on where their next 
assignment is, they will also hold meetings in the UK
Are they regulated to give advice in their home jurisdication [sic]? No because they 
are not regulated they are introducers of business
They have confirmed they give advice in Jordan? When they mean advice they are 
talking about consultancy they are not regulated in any jurisdication [sic]
How did we establish their knowledge of UK Pension and SIPP marketplace? By 
meeting with them twice and by running a workshop for them output from which is 
attached
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? I 
am not sure it is our place to comment on this maybe on the information but not on 
advice, if we commented on whether we thought even our regulated advisers were 
providing poor advice I would probably think we would say yes. Think we need to be 
careful what questions we are looking to answer comfortable on the information piece 
but not on the advice piece
Do Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? No they don't, they 
consult with the client on the feasibility of transferring their Armed Forces Pension 
Scheme into a SIPP and their partner to manage the investment is [Business C] 
On 10 May 2013 Options CEO sent Caledonian an email requesting further information. The 
email confirmed Options was reviewing its terms of business in light of recent 
announcements from the FCA and our internal compliance reviews.
Options made clear it was keen to continue doing business with Caledonian but must do so 
in a framework that is robust and compliant and will satisfy the regulators. The email 
continued, so we must start with ensuring we understand each stage of the process, to 
enable us to develop a robust and compliant process for this business moving forward. 
Options said that as a starting point it would like Caledonian to clarify a number of issues. 
The email read:
1. Can you provide your organisational structure and the jurisdiction in which each is 
registered and the regulation/regulator that each company operates within. If you are 
relying on any exemptions please state which exemptions and the reasons you 
believe you can operate within those exemptions2. Are you giving advice and if so in what capacity and under what regulatory 
environment are you providing this advice.
3. What offices do you have and where, do the jurisdictions in which you have offices 
have a regulatory regime, if so can you provide details of the regulators in those 
jurisdictions.
4. On what basis are you providing illustrations and the reasons for this basis
5. Do you meet all your clients in Jordan, if not why do your Non Solicitation forms 
signed by yourself confirm the advice was given in Jordan
6. Please confirm the profile of your clients
7. Please confirm how you receive introductions to your clients
8. Can you update information about your team their background, expertise in dealing 
with pensions
9. On the Non Solicitation letters you note that Caledonian does not have a 
permanent place of business in the UK. However, you request correspondence to 
be sent to The Pensions Service Centre, [UK city]. Please can you clarify 
Caledonian's presence in the UK and the nature of the office in [UK city].
The email closed with a reminder to Caledonian that from 1 May 2013 Options had 
implemented some changes to its requirements and must have a UK FCA regulated adviser 
providing the TVAS and the sign off for the suitability of transfers from occupational schemes 
of any values.
On 15 May 2013 Options sent an internal email which was a summary of a telephone 
conversation with Mr P of Business C. The summary recorded that:
Mr P confirmed that an FCA Regulated Adviser would be providing the TVAS reports 
on all Caledonian introduced clients. This adviser would produce TVAS reports on 
the back book of business with Caledonian. 
On this understanding Options had agreed they would continue to process 
applications where the TVAS report was currently being issued by Mr P.
Options says that the last introduction made to it by Caledonian was on 20 May 2013.
On 23 May 2013 Options met with Mr P of Business C and Mr C of Caledonian. In the 
handwritten summary of that meeting the following was noted:
Mr C was a consultant to armed forces and not an adviser in the FCA sense.
The [UK City] address was a postal address and not a working office.
Mr C met with clients in the UK but initial contact was abroad. The client contacts 
Caledonian if they want to transfer their pension (it was noted that the documents 
said that he met them in Jordan and that FPI need a letter about where advice was 
given).Caledonians website didnt mention that it would give advice, and their documents 
made it clear no advice was given and clients should take advice from a regulated 
adviser.
Mr P explained that the reason for lots of transfers was the market and their 
relationship with the providers.
The proposal going forward involved an appointed representative of a Manchester 
IFA being a pension specialist of Business C  it had the necessary qualifications. 
Going forward the Manchester IFA would deal with business.
Options agreed to allow Caledonian a four-week window to put the proposal in place.
The question about advice was irrelevant to Options as no advice is given  FPI want 
a letter about advice but no advice is given.
Caledonian said its illustrations were provided to facilitate the business. Options 
queried whether this was advice.
A question was noted  is there a terms of business for Caledonian with client?
I have not seen evidence that any of the agreed actions were completed. As noted, Options 
did not accept any further business from Caledonian after 20 May 2013.
Options decided to review its relationship with Caledonian. Options has provided a copy of 
its document headed, Caledonian Relationship Review 2013. I have reviewed the 
document in full, but have only quoted below what I consider to be the key part:
  Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were 
raised regarding whether the clients could be deemed to be receiving advice through 
an unregulated entity.
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to 
satisfy ourselves that this is not the case.
We have insisted that they move to a model that all cases are fully advised by an 
FCA regulated firm/individual, which has been accepted 
Following a meeting in the Milton Keynes office  where [Mr C] from Caledonian, 
and [Mr P] of [Business C] explained their current process and documentation and 
described their future process, [and] further discussions  it was decided that they 
had not satisfied us enough with their current processes for us to continue to allow 
taking on new business in the interim without the use of a UK regulated firm or 
individual who was suitably qualified.
[Options] has instructed the team of this decision so from week beginning 28th May 
any new business received will be rejected unless it comes through an FCA 
regulated firm.
It set out a detailed process by which Caledonian proposed to move to a model where all 
clients would be fully advised by an FCA regulated firm/individual, and it highlighted the 
benefits of this new approach as being:
All schemes are coming in on an advised basisBrings the process and clients into the UK regulated process
Brings the clients into the FSCS and FOS protections
Ensures all occupational schemes undergo analysis and advice
I have not seen evidence that this approach was ever enacted  again, as noted, no further 
business introduced by Caledonian was accepted by Options after 20 May 2013.
Our Investigators view
Mr M brought his complaint to this service in October 2019, and it was considered by an 
Investigator. The Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary he:
Acknowledged that Options wasnt responsible for assessing the suitability of any 
advice Mr M may have received.
Accepted that the FPI investment may not itself have given cause for concern.
Acknowledged that Options did take some steps which amounted to good practice 
consistent with its regulatory obligations but considered Options ought to have done 
more at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian, and in any case by the time of 
Mr Ms application and investment, identified issues with Caledonians business 
model and concluded that it should not accept Mr Ms application.
Said Options ought to have concluded at the outset of its relationship with 
Caledonian, and before the conclusion of Mr Ms application, that Caledonian would 
be giving advice  not least because Caledonians business model meant there was 
a risk that advice would be given on the merits of transferring out of the Armed 
Forces Pension scheme, to the SIPP and on the investments to be made within that 
SIPP.
Said Options ought to have asked the questions it asked of Caledonian in May 2013 
at the outset of, or very early in, its relationship with Caledonian.
Said Options was not in a position to know whether Caledonian was following any 
applicable regulations and laws as it simply didnt know where it was carrying out its 
activities, and it wasnt clear how Caledonians business model worked logistically  
Caledonians business model should have given Options cause for concern at the 
outset.
Said it was likely Caledonians typical client would be reliant on Caledonians advice 
 Options should have satisfied itself that Caledonian had the appropriate 
qualifications to give advice on the complex subject of pensions transfers.
Noted that Options had reason to believe, before Mr Ms application, that the 
Caledonian representative, Mr C, didnt have the qualifications required to give 
advice to Mr M on occupational pension scheme transfers.
Said Options should have identified there was a clear risk of consumer detriment and 
checked that there was a reasonable process in place to fully inform consumers of 
the risks. The conclusion it reached in May 2013  that what was in place wasnt 
sufficient  should have been reached before Mr Ms application and investment.Said Options should have declined to accept Mr Ms application because there was 
no evidence Caledonian was meeting any relevant regulations or laws, no evidence 
Caledonians staff had the necessary expertise, and no evidence of a proper advice 
process being in place.
Said Options ought also to have been concerned by the high volume of business 
brought about by Caledonian, the level of commission it was taking and that 
Caledonian had failed to provide its company accounts despite repeated requests  
and these issues, considered alongside those about advice, should have caused 
Options to draw the conclusion it should decline to accept Mr Ms application.
Said it ought to have been clear to Options at the outset in March 2012 (rather than 
in May 2013) that Caledonian's business model meant that consumers were likely to 
receive advice from an unqualified and unregulated introducer and therefore there 
was a risk of significant consumer detriment by facilitating unsuitable SIPPs.
Acknowledged that Mr M signed declarations but didnt think that demonstrated 
Options had acted fairly and reasonably when proceeding with his instructions 
because, ultimately, Mr Ms application should not have been accepted in the first 
place.
Finally, our Investigator set out how Options should put things right by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr M would have been in if he had not transferred from the Armed 
Forces Pension scheme and paying him compensation. Our Investigator also recommended 
Options pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failings.
Options response to our Investigators view
Options did not accept the Investigators view. I have summarised below what I consider to 
be the key points of Options disagreement but have considered Options response in its 
entirety. Options said:
Only the SIPP reports in 2009 and 2012 were published prior to Options receiving 
Mr M's SIPP application form  it is not fair or reasonable to consider the complaint in 
the context of guidance that was published after the events complained of and which 
introduced new expectations.
Options operated at all times on the basis that Caledonian was not providing advice 
to Mr M  Caledonian signed Options' terms of business in which they undertook not 
to provide advice.
There was no mandatory requirement at the time for a consumer to obtain pension 
transfer advice before arranging to transfer their defined benefit pension, and it would 
not be a requirement today in Mr Ms case as the transfer value was less than 
£30,000.
The Investigator concluded that Caledonian provided advice without exploration of 
the relevant law and application of the Regulated Activity Order  as considered by 
the Court of Appeal in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA 
Civ 474  and jumped to the conclusion that advice was given to any person 
introduced by Caledonian.
Neither the FSA nor the FCA have ever sought to prohibit SIPP providers from 
accepting business from unregulated introducers.The Investigator seeks to place liability for losses by the device of retrospectively 
imposing new and unexpected duties of due diligence  duties inconsistent with both 
the contract and with the general scheme of the COBS rules at the relevant time.
The judge in Adams rejected the proposition that Options owed duties of the kinds 
relied on by the Investigator.
The criticisms made of Options due diligence on Caledonian are unfounded.
The Investigator improperly used the FCAs Principles for Businesses to create new 
and unexpected duties which were at odds with Options' contractual relationship with 
Mr M.
Options decision to require that members had the protections of a regulated adviser 
being involved was a broader policy decision made by Options in February 2014, not 
a decision made in response to what it knew of Caledonians practices. Likewise, its 
decision in August 2014 to no longer accept non-regulated introducer business was 
not about Caledonian specifically.
Options did not at any point become aware that Caledonian were providing advice, 
nor has it seen any evidence that advice was provided.
Assessing the quality of the FPI investment, assessing the suitability of the 
investment for Mr M, or refusing Mr Ms instructions would have been inconsistent 
with the terms of the contract between the parties, the relevant COBS Rules and the 
restrictions on Options permissions.
It is unfair to make an execution-only SIPP provider liable for the poor investment 
choices of consumers, especially when theyve signed contractual documentation 
declaring that they understand they are not receiving advice and are establishing the 
SIPP on an execution only basis.
Options did not cause Mr Ms loss  had Options informed Mr M that it would not 
accept business from Caledonian, on balance Mr M would have gone ahead with the 
FPI investment. It is evident that he wished to transfer his pension, whether through 
Options or another provider.
Any compensation awarded, if at all, should therefore be limited to the commission 
and adviser fee which was paid to Caledonian.
Mr Ms request to transfer his defined benefit pension was sent on or around 
28 October 2012  once the transfer request was made, Options was obliged to 
complete the transfer and so the loss of defined benefits was assured from that point.
Mr M should bear some responsibility for his decisions, and this should be reflected 
in the calculation of any compensation due.
The investment performed within a range of outcomes which Mr M could have 
foreseen  it is plainly not fair or reasonable for Options to bear Mr Ms loss in 
circumstances where the investment simply did not perform as Mr M had hoped.
In the event that the Ombudsman concludes that Mr M should be put back in the 
position he would have been in had he not transferred his existing pensions, then 
Options would accept that the correct basis for calculating the compensation is as set 
out in the Investigators view under the headings Calculate the loss Mr M has suffered as a result of making the transfer and Pay compensation to Mr M for loss 
he has suffered calculated in (1), in accordance with the judgment of the Court of 
Appeal in Adams.
In the event that Mr M is unable to return the investments to Options, the 
compensation should be recalculated to reflect this.
Oral exploration of; the extent of Caledonians role in Mr Ms decisions, his 
understanding of the investment and roles of FPI and Options, and his motivation for 
entering into the transaction with Options, is required. Options therefore requested an 
oral hearing.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator did and for broadly the 
same reasons, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do so, Ill set out 
what I think about Options request for an oral hearing.
Options request for an oral hearing
Options say an oral hearing is necessary to explore the extent of Caledonians role, Mr Ms 
understanding of the investment and the roles played by the parties, and Mr Ms motivation 
for entering into the transaction.
The Ombudsman Service provides a scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality (section 225 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA)). DISP 3.5.5R of the FCA Dispute Resolution rules provides the following:
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties 
to take part in a hearing. A hearing may be held by any means which the 
Ombudsman considers appropriate in the circumstances, including by telephone. No 
hearing will be held after the Ombudsman has determined the complaint.
Given my statutory duty under FSMA to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality, I am satisfied that it would not normally be necessary for me to hold a hearing in 
most cases (see the Court of Appeals decision in R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
The key question for me to consider when deciding whether a hearing should be held is 
whether or not the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a hearing.
We do not operate in the same way as the Courts. Unlike a Court, we have the power to 
carry out our own investigation. And the rules (DISP 3.5.8R) mean I, as the Ombudsman 
determining this complaint, am able to decide the issues on which evidence is required and 
how that evidence should be presented. I am not restricted to oral cross-examination to 
further explore or test points.If I decide particular information is required to decide a complaint fairly, in most 
circumstances we are able to request this information from either party to the complaint, or 
even from a third party. In this case, our Investigator sought some further information from 
Mr M, and he referred to what he considered to be the key points in his view. Options has 
had the opportunity to consider, and comment, on that view.
I have carefully considered the submissions Options has made. However, I am satisfied that 
I am able to fairly determine this complaint without convening a hearing. In this case, I am 
satisfied I have sufficient information to make a fair and reasonable decision. So, I do not 
consider a hearing  or any further investigation by other means  is required. The key 
question is whether Options should have accepted Mr Ms application at all. Mr Ms 
understanding of matters are secondary to this. And I am, in any event, able to test this to 
the extent I think necessary by asking questions of Mr M in writing.
In any event  and I make this point only for completeness  even if I were to invite the 
parties to participate in a hearing, that would not be an opportunity for Options to cross-
examine Mr M as a witness. Our hearings do not follow the same format as a Court. We are 
inquisitorial in nature and not adversarial. And the purpose of any hearing would be solely for 
the ombudsman to obtain further information from the parties that they require in order to 
fairly determine the complaint. The parties would not usually be allowed direct questioning or 
cross-examination of the other party to the complaint.
As I am satisfied it is not necessary for me to hold an oral hearing, I will now turn to 
considering the merits of Mr Ms complaint.
The relevant considerations
Im required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators' 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
With that in mind Ill start by setting out what I have identified as the relevant considerations 
to deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principles 2, 3 
and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 FSMA and the approach an ombudsman is 
to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the 
lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. So, the Principles 
are a relevant consideration here and I will consider them in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
The Adams court cases and COBS 2.1.1R
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I note the Supreme Court 
refused Options permission to appeal the Court of Appeal judgment.
Ive considered whether these judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case. And, I am of the view they do not. In the High Court case, HHJ 
Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the 
pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found that the 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was not of direct relevance to the case before him was 
because the specific regulatory provisions which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was 
asked to consider are not those which have formed the basis of the claimants case before 
me.
Likewise, the Principles were not considered by the Court of Appeal. So, the Adams 
judgments say nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.
Although the Court of Appeal ultimately overturned HHJ Dights judgment, it rejected that 
part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS claim on the 
basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that found 
in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did not so much 
represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, 
but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would inform the extent of the 
duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at para 148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
The facts in Mr Ms case are very different from those in Adams. There are also significant 
differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and the issues in 
Mr Ms complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal 
judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship between the 
parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that happened after 
the contract was entered into. In Mr Ms complaint, I am considering whether Options ought 
to have identified that the introductions from Caledonian involved a risk of consumer detriment and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from 
Caledonian prior to entering into a contract with Mr M.
On this point, I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
both Adams cases. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Options was not obliged  and not able 
 to give advice to Mr M on the suitability of its SIPP or the FPI investment for him 
personally. But I am satisfied Options obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses. And this is consistent with Options own understanding of its 
obligations at the relevant time. As noted above, the Options Non-Regulated Introducer 
Profile completed at the start of Options relationship with Caledonian began:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out 
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are 
obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference 
to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their 
adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for unauthorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment 
advice given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of 
the SIPP business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from nonregulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is 
informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax relievable investments and non-standard investments that 
have not been approved by the firmThe July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and 
are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect the 
publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice 
and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman.
Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Ms 
complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide were not good practice at 
the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did 
the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 
SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration 
of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow that those publications are irrelevant to my 
consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am 
required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, 
the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
That doesnt mean that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Options actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
pension transfer was suitable for Mr M. It is accepted Options was not required to give 
advice to Mr M, and could not give advice. And I accept the publications do not alter the 
meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles.
What did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a particular 
introducer is appropriate to deal with.
As noted above, it is clear from Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile, that it 
understood and accepted its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out due 
diligence on Caledonian.
I am satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Options 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, with the 
Principles in mind. This seems consistent with Options own understanding  as Options 
Compliance Officer noted in their email of 26 April 2013, We have a responsibility to 
proactively monitor our distribution channels to ensure our products do not end up with 
customers for whom it is not suitable. And I note in submissions on other complaints 
Options has told us that adherence to TCF is something it had in mind when considering its 
approach to introducer due diligence i.e. the question of whether it should accept business 
from a particular introducer.
All in all, I am satisfied that, in order to meet the appropriate standards of good industry 
practice and the obligations set by the regulators rules and regulations, Options should have 
carried out due diligence on Caledonian which was consistent with good industry practice 
and its regulatory obligations at the time. And in my opinion, Options should have used the 
knowledge it gained from its due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of 
business or particular investment.
Summary of my decisionAs set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review Report deals specifically with the relationships 
between SIPP operators and introducers or intermediaries. And it gives non-exhaustive 
examples of good practice. In my view, to meet these standards, and its regulatory 
obligations, set by the Principles, Options ought to have identified a significant risk of 
consumer detriment arising from the business model Caledonian described to it at the 
outset. And so, Options ought to have ensured it thought very carefully about accepting 
applications from Caledonian.
I acknowledge Options did take some steps  initially and on an ongoing basis  which did 
amount to good practice consistent with its regulatory obligations. But I think, acting fairly 
and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, Options had 
reason at the outset  and certainly by the time of Mr Ms application  to have significant 
concerns about the business Caledonian would be introducing. And it ought to have taken 
the sort of action it took in April and May 2013  which effectively ended its relationship with 
Caledonian  before the relationship with Caledonian began.
Acting fairly and reasonably, Options should have:
Been aware  or at least concluded there was a significant risk  at the outset of its 
relationship with Caledonian, that Caledonian was giving advice on the transfer out of 
consumers existing defined benefit schemes to the SIPP and the investment in the 
FPI bond.
Been aware that Caledonian was arranging the transfer out of consumers existing 
defined benefit schemes to the SIPP and the investment in the FPI bond too.
Sought clarification on where these activities were taking place.
Concluded Caledonian was, in at least some instances, carrying out regulated 
activities in the UK.
Further, Options should have recognised, and promptly reacted to, the following risks of 
consumer detriment:
Caledonians staff did not have the qualifications  and therefore expertise  to give 
advice on defined benefit pension transfers.
There was no evidence to show a proper advice process had been followed and 
consumers such as Mr M were therefore unable to make fully informed decisions 
about the transfer to the SIPP and investment in the FPI bond.
The high volume of business being proposed/brought about by Caledonian.
The high level of commission Caledonian was taking.
That Caledonian had failed to provide its company accounts, despite repeated 
requests for copies of them by Options.
I think these points  individually and cumulatively  should have led Options, acting fairly 
and reasonably, to have concluded at the outset  and certainly by the time of Mr Ms 
application  that it should not accept business from Caledonian. And so, Mr Ms application 
should not have proceeded.
It follows that it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ms complaint.I have set out my view in more detail below.
What activities did Caledonian undertake and what should Options have concluded?
Advice
I note that in its response to the Investigators view Options says it did not at any point 
become aware that Caledonian were providing advice. This is a surprising assertion, given 
Options recorded in March 2013, when assessing Caledonian, under the heading Advice:
No details of how advice given. No regulatory bodies / permissions seen. Although 
suggested on email that advice given in Jordan?
Advice possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if true for UK based clients.
And so, it seems Options understood at this point that advice was being given. To ask 
questions about how and where advice was being given, the conclusion must first have been 
reached that advice was being given. There is nothing to suggest this was a view it had 
recently reached  rather it seems that it was an existing understanding which was being 
flagged as an issue for the first time.
When further action on this point was eventually taken by Options a member of its staff said, 
on 30 April 2013 No they [Caledonian] don't [give advice], they consult with the client on the 
feasibility of transferring their Armed Forces Pension Scheme into a SIPP.
This seems to be an effort to back-track on the earlier answers given to the questions in the 
26 April 2013 email, which appear to accept Caledonian was giving advice, although much 
else was unknown. But, to my mind, describing Caledonians role as consulting on the 
feasibility of doing something is simply another way of describing an advisory role. It would 
also have been clear to Options that Caledonians role was not limited to advice on the 
transfer out of the consumers existing scheme  it was declared on the FPI applications that 
Caledonian was giving advice on the bond too, and so any consulting was not solely limited 
to the transfer out from the existing scheme. This was clearly not viewed by Options as a 
satisfactory answer to this point in any event as its enquiries continued and, on 10 May 
2013, Options asked Caledonian:
Are you giving advice and if so in what capacity and under what regulatory 
environment are you providing this advice.
This shows Options was clearly of the view at this point that, at the very least, Caledonian 
might be giving advice as there is no other basis on which it could have sought clarification 
from Caledonian as to whether advice was being given.
It seems this was a view Options maintained. As set out above, it later noted:
Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were raised 
regarding whether the clients could be deemed to be receiving advice through an 
unregulated entity.
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to 
satisfy ourselves that this is not the case.
And it ultimately concluded all business should come to it through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  an unusual step to take if it did not remain of the view there 
was at least a risk Caledonian was giving advice.
The above suggests to me that Options knew  or suspected  advice was being given from 
the outset but took a reactive, piecemeal approach to addressing this obvious risk.
Furthermore, from the information available to Options at the very outset of its relationship 
with Caledonian there was a clear identifiable risk that advice was being given by 
Caledonian. Caledonian said, at the outset, it was:
preferred adviser for the Armed Forces occupational pension scheme
a consultant to these clients and advised them on their armed forces transfers only
currently putting them into an international Friends Provident Bond
And Caledonians sales process was described as:
Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit
Finally, as mentioned, many of the FPI applications I have seen confirm Caledonian was 
giving advice (in Jordan  a point Ill turn to below) and Options would have been privy to 
many of these forms from an early stage in its relationship with Caledonian.
I note it was recorded that Caledonian advised on the transfer only, but it was also recorded 
that it was selecting the investment vehicle (the FPI bond). And it is also very difficult to see 
how advice on a transfer out did not encompass advice on where to transfer to (i.e. the 
SIPP)  particularly when it was clearly anticipated that all consumers would be transferring 
to an Options SIPP. It is not clear how this could happen without those consumers being 
advised to take this course of action.
Furthermore, the Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit process Caledonian describes is a 
typical advice process involving an initial meeting, information gathering and analysis, and a 
further meeting.
Options should also have been aware that it is not usual for pension transfers to happen 
without the consumer receiving advice or a recommendation  and very unusual for this to 
happen at a rate of 50 a month, which Caledonian was proposing. Options should have 
concluded that it was simply implausible that such a large volume of consumers were 
deciding to transfer out of their existing schemes, open a SIPP with Options, and make the 
same FPI investments within the SIPP without being advised to do so.
I note Options terms of business with Caledonian, signed September 2012 (but, Options 
says, in place since March 2012) said:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by 
the Act in relation to the SIPP  for the avoidance of doubt this includes reference to 
advice on the selection of The SIPP Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, 
taking benefits and HMRC rules;
I also note the SIPP application form said:
This Form should be used if you are a client establishing a SIPP without advice. You have made this decision independently and are aware of the implications of this 
decision.
And:
As you do not have a Financial Adviser, your investment choices are your sole 
responsibility. You will instruct us and we will act on those instructions as long as it is 
an accepted investment in the Carey Pension Scheme.
But Options members declaration included the following:
I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.
So, I do not think the application documents in this case gave Options any basis to conclude 
advice had not been given  particularly given what I say above. They present a confused, 
inconsistent, picture.
Taking account of the available evidence I consider that, in this case, Caledonian did provide 
advice to Mr M on the merits of transferring his pension to the SIPP and investing in the FPI 
bond. Mr Ms own account of events is that he was contacted by Caledonian and a 
representative then visited him at home in the UK. The representative then recommended 
Mr M transfer his Armed Forces Pension into an Options SIPP and invest in a Friends 
Provident International (FPI) bond. Mr M told us the SIPP provider (Options) and the 
investment (FPI) were selected by Caledonian for him without discussion.
So, I am satisfied advice was given to Mr M by Caledonian in this case, and that, from the 
outset of its relationship with Caledonian, Options was (or at the very least ought to have 
been) aware, generally, that Caledonian was offering advice to consumers, or there was a 
significant risk it might be doing so.
Arranging
It is also clear from what Options was told by Caledonian at the outset  and from the 
available evidence in this complaint and others  that Caledonian was heavily involved in the 
arrangement of the transfer out of Mr Ms existing pension scheme to the SIPP and the 
investment of the cash transferred to the SIPP in the FPI bond. It clearly was not simply 
introducing Mr M to Options and leaving it to him to proceed with the application. It was 
involved in arranging the transfer out of Mr Ms existing pension to the SIPP, the setting up 
of the SIPP and in arranging the FPI bond and associated investments. It was involved in 
gathering all the information and documents needed for things to proceed. And it seems it 
sent all the required information, forms, documents etc to all the parties involved, and dealt 
with any queries arising from these.
I think Options ought to have been aware of this. The extent of Caledonians involvement 
was clear from the application documentation Caledonian sent to Options.
Where were the activities taking place?
I have not seen any evidence that, prior to May 2013, Options established where Caledonian 
was carrying out its activities in relation to each application  including Mr Ms.
As set out above, Caledonian told Options at the outset that They [the consumers] were generally still resident in UK but some were now living abroad in various countries such as 
Thailand, Germany, Spain etc. It was also recorded that Caledonian had branches in Chile, 
Peru, Columbia, Argentina, Brazil and Switzerland. And, as Options later noted, Caledonian 
also used a UK address.
Caledonian also told Options at the outset the Majority of business carried out in 
unregulated jurisdictions but where regulations apply we are licensed to carry out our 
activities.
And, as mentioned, the sales process adopted by Caledonian was set out as Referral  
Visit  Analysis  Visit. So, it was clear Caledonian was meeting consumers in person.
Furthermore, the Certificate of Non-Solicitation signed by Caledonian for FPI  to which 
Options was privy  said in each instance (as far as Im aware) The advice was given in 
Jordan.
Caledonian therefore gave what appears to be conflicting information. But Options ought to 
have been aware, from what was said by Caledonian, that it was possible Caledonian might 
be dealing with a UK resident consumer in the UK, or dealing with a consumer in any one of 
a number of different countries, all of which might have different financial services regulatory 
regimes (or no such regime).
It is fair to say the picture was far from clear  and Options should have been aware it was 
unlikely all of the information provided by Caledonian could be correct. It is not, for example, 
clear how the advice in every instance could have been given in Jordan when, by 
Caledonians own account, it had a number of offices around the world (none of which were 
in Jordan), was dealing with consumers who were generally still resident in UK or living 
abroad in various countries and said elsewhere that it was carrying out business in various 
jurisdictions.
Options did not, however, check any of this at the outset. It was therefore in no position to 
know what, if any, regulatory regimes applied, and whether Caledonian required any 
authorisations to conduct the activities it did. Caledonian itself appears to have suggested it 
needed licences in some jurisdictions, but I have seen no evidence of it having given 
details of any such licences.
I think Options should have been particularly concerned  given that, as mentioned, 
Caledonian told Options the consumers it dealt with were generally still resident in UK  
about whether advice was being given (or any other regulated activity carried on) in the UK, 
as Caledonian was not authorised by the FSA nor, later, the FCA. There was reason, as Ive 
explained, to think Caledonian might be breaching the General Prohibition against persons 
carrying on a regulated activity in the UK without authorisation. And this should have, in my 
view, led Options to conclude that it should not enter into (or continue with) a relationship 
with Caledonian at all, and therefore not accept any applications, including Mr Ms.
Despite this, I have seen no evidence to show Options identified this risk until March 2013 
when, as set out above, it was noted:
No details of how advice given. No regulatory bodies / permissions seen. Although 
suggested on email that advice given in Jordan?
Advice possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if true for UK based clients.
Then no further action appears to have been taken until 26 April 2013 when, in a further internal email exchange at Options, the following questions were asked, and answers were 
received on 30 April 2013 (the below, in bold, are the first set of answers provided on this 
date):
Do they have a business address in the UK? They confirm that they do not have 
a permanent place of business in the UK, however they have a business 
address for correspondence and [Mr C] is based in the UK.
Where do they meet with clients, i.e. in the UK? Unknown.
What is Caledonian's regulatory status, i.e. are they regulated in their home 
jurisdiction? [Mr C] - The Chartered Insurance Institute  ID Number XXXXX. 
[Mr C] certifies all ID and signs the investment Application Form.
Are they regulated to provide advice in their home jurisdiction? Unknown
They have confirmed that they provide advice in Jordan. How does this work? Do 
they have a place of business in Jordan? Do they need to be regulated in Jordan to 
provide advice?
Unknown - Caledonian provide a Non Solicitation Letter which is sent to 
Friends Provident with the investment App. A copy of a Non Solicitation Letter 
is attached
Despite the uncertainty it was not until 10 May 2013, when Options finally challenged 
Caledonian on this point (amongst others):
Can you provide your organisational structure and the jurisdiction in which each is 
registered and the regulation/regulator that each company operates within. If you are 
relying on any exemptions please state which exemptions and the reasons you 
believe you can operate within those exemptions
What offices do you have and where, do the jurisdictions in which you have offices 
have a regulatory regime, if so can you provide details of the regulators in those 
jurisdictions.
Do you meet all your clients in Jordan, if not why do your Non Solicitation forms 
signed by yourself confirm the advice was given in Jordan
On the Non Solicitation letters you note that Caledonian does not have a permanent 
place of business in the UK. However, you request correspondence to be sent to The 
Pensions Service Centre, [UK City]. Please can you clarify Caledonian's presence in 
the UK and the nature of the office in [UK City].
Given what I say above, acting fairly and reasonably, Options should have made these 
enquiries at the outset. And as set out in the background, these enquiries (along with the 
other points of query put to Caledonian and then discussed with it) led to Options quickly 
concluding it should not accept further applications from Caledonian unless they came 
through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  a restriction which it 
seems had the effect of no further business being introduced by Caledonian. I think it fair to 
say that Options would have reached the same conclusion had it taken this action at the 
outset of its relationship with Caledonian. And it certainly should have done so, to act fairly 
and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and standards of good practice.In this case I am satisfied Caledonian carried out the activities in the UK. Mr M says he was 
visited by the Caledonian representative at a location in the UK and there were no other 
meetings. Had Options sought clarification from Mr M, which would have been a reasonable 
course of action in the circumstances, I think Mr M would likely have confirmed that was the 
case. And, for all the reasons I have mentioned, Options should have concluded it was 
possible Caledonian was carrying out activities in the UK long before it received Mr Ms 
application in October 2012, in any event.
Regulated activities in the UK
Under Article 53 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the RAO) (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) the 
following are regulated activities:
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in 
his capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or 
agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment 
which is a security or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite such an investment.
Under Article 25 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to 
buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a) a security,
(b) a relevant investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as 
relevant to that article, is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments 
falling within paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also 
a specified kind of activity.
There is an exclusion under Article 26 of arrangements which do not or would not bring 
about the transaction to which the arrangements relate.
Rights under a personal pension scheme are a security.
The investments made within the FPI bond  which Caledonian itself described as 
regulated  were also securities or relevant investments.Finally, the FPI bond was a contract of insurance, and rights under a contract of insurance 
were also a relevant investment.
As set out above, I am satisfied Caledonian gave advice and made arrangements. The 
activities it undertook clearly meet the above definitions. The arrangements it made brought 
about the transactions (the transfer out of Mr Ms existing pension into the SIPP, the opening 
of the FPI bond within the SIPP and the making of investments within that bond). The 
arrangements had that direct effect. And advice was given on the merits of transferring out of 
Mr Ms existing scheme to the SIPP in order to invest in the FPI bond  Mr M was told he 
would not benefit from remaining in the scheme and that if he moved his money it would 
make good returns.
So, I am satisfied the activities undertaken by Caledonian in the UK in this case were 
regulated activities. Caledonian therefore carried out regulated activities without 
authorisation.
These points about the activities Caledonian was undertaking, where it was undertaking 
them, and its authorisation to undertake them, are ones Options should have considered 
individually and cumulatively. And to be clear, I think the fact Caledonian was carrying out 
regulated activities without authorisation was enough reason, in itself, for Options to have 
concluded, that it should not accept applications from Caledonian.
This was a significant red flag. The fact Caledonian was carrying out regulated activities 
without authorisation calls into question its integrity, motivation and competency. I think the 
only fair and reasonable conclusion Options could reach in these circumstances was that it 
should not accept business from Caledonian. And I think this alone is sufficient reason to 
conclude it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ms complaint. But I have nonetheless gone 
on to consider the further risks of consumer detriment I have summarised above.
Caledonians expertise
Caledonians proposed business model involved former members of the armed forces who, 
it said, worked in security related jobs in dangerous areas. The business model was not one 
involving, say, former financial advisers or other finance professionals.
There was therefore no reason to think that the typical client Caledonian was proposing to 
introduce to Options had a good level of understanding of pensions or was in a position to 
work out for themselves if a pension transfer was in their best interests. They would be 
reliant on Caledonians advice.
The introductions involved transfers out of a defined benefit pension scheme into a UK SIPP 
for investment in several investments within an FPI bond. The transfers of defined benefit 
(final salary) pensions are usually not in the customers best interests, are complex and 
present a variety of consequences and matters which the ordinary individual would be hard 
pressed to understand without professional financial advice. Those giving such advice in the 
UK are required by the FCA to pass specialist exams, reflecting the risks and complexities 
involved. Options, as a provider of SIPPs, would or ought to have been aware of this.
Not only did Caledonians advisers not have the qualifications required by the FCA (or FSA 
as it then was) to give advice on pension transfers, there is no evidence they had any 
relevant qualifications. The only qualification of any kind which is mentioned is that Mr C of 
Caledonian is a qualified accountant.
I have seen no evidence to show Options noted this obvious risk until March 2013 when it reviewed its relationship with Caledonian and Professional Qualification was assessed as 
high risk. The reason for this assessment was No qualifications documented other than 
meeting note from March 2012 where [Mr C] stated he was a qualified accountant and 
member of Chartered Institute of Accountants.
And, despite this high risk flag, I have seen no evidence Options took any action until 
26 April 2013 when it was asked How did we establish Caledonians knowledge of SIPPs 
and UK pension rules? The answer to this was initially recorded on 30 April as unknown. 
The later answer on 30 April was, By meeting with them twice and by running a workshop 
for them output from which is attached". But I do not think this is enough to show Options 
had sufficiently addressed this risk  it does nothing to show Caledonian's staff had 
adequate professional qualifications.
Indeed, this (along with the other points of query raised at the time) was a point which led to 
Options quickly concluding it should not accept further applications from Caledonian unless 
they came through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  a restriction 
which had the effect of no further business being introduced by Caledonian. And I think it fair 
to say Options would have reached the same conclusion had it taken this action at the outset 
of its relationship with Caledonian. And it certainly should have done so to meet its 
regulatory obligations and standards of good practice.
The transfer process
As mentioned above, a defined benefit transfer is a complex transaction. It also involves 
many risks, and potentially the loss of significant guaranteed benefits. For this reason, 
advice on such transactions is tightly regulated in the UK and there are standards of good 
practice that those giving the advice are expected to follow. This means several steps need 
to be taken as part of the advice process and documentation such as fact-finds, suitability 
reports, transfer analysis reports (TVAS), and illustrations generally feature in the advice 
process. The purpose is to ensure any advice given takes into account all relevant factors, is 
suitable, and the recipient of the advice is in a fully informed position, where they understand 
the benefits they are giving up and the risks associated with the transfer.
I have seen no evidence to show Caledonian followed such a process. In my opinion it would 
have been fair and reasonable for Options to have identified this as a clear risk of consumer 
detriment  particularly given that Caledonians starting point appears to have been that the 
consumers it dealt with would be transferring out of the defined benefit scheme (i.e. it seems 
to have taken the view a transfer was suitable for all).
Had Options taken steps to ascertain if a reasonable process was in place, it would have 
become aware no such process was in place, and consumers were not therefore fully 
informed before agreeing to make the transfer to the SIPP and the associated FPI bond 
investments.
Options reference to Illustrations in the list of questions in the 26 April 2013 email, and the 
initial answers to those questions, appears to be an acknowledgement of this risk:
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? 
Yes due to illustrations
Again, this (along with the other points of query raised at the time) appears to be a point 
which led to Options quickly concluding it should not accept further applications from 
Caledonian unless they came through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  a restriction which had the effect of no further business being introduced by 
Caledonian. And I think it fair to say Options would have reached the same conclusion had it 
taken this action at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian. And it certainly should have 
done so, on a fair and reasonable basis to meet its regulatory obligations and standards of 
good practice.
Volume of business
At the outset of the relationship between Options and Caledonian, Options was told that 
Caledonian would be introducing about 50 applications a month (and I note a similar volume 
was introduced once the relationship began).
I think on a fair and reasonable basis, Options should have been concerned that Caledonian 
intended to (and did) make such a high volume of introductions, relating only to occupational 
pension schemes. In my view this was a further reason for Options to conclude there was a 
significant risk of consumer detriment  particularly when considered alongside the other 
points I have set out here.
Firstly, it is not clear how Caledonian would be, or was, bringing about such a high volume of 
applications without giving advice. It was simply implausible it could bring about this number 
of applications without influencing consumers actions through a positive recommendation.
Options also ought to have considered Caledonians competence to deal with this volume of 
transfers  there is no evidence to show it had the significant resources this would require. 
Further, Options should have been aware of the very low likelihood the transfers would all be 
suitable. At the outset of Options relationship with Caledonian (and the time of Mr Ms 
application) COBS 19.1.6 G said:
When advising a retail client who is, or eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt out will not be suitable (my emphasis). A firm should 
only then consider a transfer or opt out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence that the transfer or opt out is in the clients best interest.
I accept this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser when determining 
suitability of a pension transfer, but Id expect Options, as a pensions provider, to have been 
aware of this and to have taken account of it.
Finally, Options had cause to question the motivations of Caledonian, if it were bringing 
about such a high volume of applications. There was a clear risk that Caledonian was putting 
its own interests above those of Mr M.
Commission
I also think the level of commission that was being paid to Caledonian should have given 
Options cause for concern.
It appears Caledonian was typically taking around 7% of the transfer amount in commission, 
and Options was told this was the case at the outset of its relationship. There is no evidence 
to show Caledonian carried out any of the usual work associated with a defined benefit 
transfer that would justify such a fee. Nor have I seen any other evidence to show there was 
any justification for such a high level of commission in the circumstances. I think this level of 
commission ought to have been another cause for Options to be concerned that Caledonian 
was putting its own interests ahead of the interests of consumers, including Mr M. And, of course, it was further reason to consider Caledonian might be giving advice, as commission 
at this level would have been very likely to motivate it to encourage consumers to proceed, 
through a positive recommendation.
Overall, when considered alongside the high volumes of near identical introductions of 
business being made by Caledonian, I think this level of commission raises questions about 
the motives and role of Caledonian.
Caledonians Accounts
I note that Options made repeated requests for Caledonian's accounts. It sent several emails 
to Caledonian between March and August 2012. Options also explained in its email of 
23 March 2012 that in order to comply with its own compliance procedures this was needed.
Nevertheless, on 27 April 2012 Options started accepting introductions from Caledonian 
having not received the accounts  seemingly in breach of its own procedures. Acting fairly 
and reasonably, Options should have met its own standards and should have checked 
Caledonians accounts at the outset before accepting any business from it. And, based on 
Caledonians conduct, it seems very unlikely accounts would ever have been forthcoming.
Caledonians reluctance to provide basic information should also have been a further factor 
which ought to have led Options to question whether it should enter into or continue a 
relationship with Caledonian. This again calls into question the competence and motivations 
of Caledonian and it also calls into question the ability of Caledonian to organise its affairs. It 
also meant Options was missing information which might be critical to the decision as to 
whether to enter into business with Caledonian.
It is notable that Options accepted and set up Mr Ms SIPP when it was still waiting for this 
information from Caledonian.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Options ought reasonably to 
have concluded, had it complied with its regulatory obligations which required it to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on Caledonian and draw fair and reasonable conclusions from what it 
discovered, that it should not accept business from Caledonian, including Mr Ms application. 
I therefore conclude that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that Options 
should not have accepted Mr Ms application from Caledonian.
Did Options act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Ms instructions?
In my view, for the reasons given, Options simply should have refused to accept Mr Ms 
application. So, things should not have got beyond that. However, for completeness, I have 
considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Options to proceed with Mr Ms 
application.
I acknowledge Mr M signed an Options declaration on 26 October 2012. I note this 
document does give warnings about the loss of benefits that would result in the transfer to 
the SIPP. And the indemnities sought to confirm that Mr M would not hold Options 
responsible for any losses resulting from the investments. However, I dont think this 
document demonstrates Options acted fairly and reasonably by proceeding with Mr Ms 
instructions.Asking Mr M to sign a declaration absolving Options of all its responsibilities when it ought to 
have known that Mr Ms dealings with Caledonian were putting him at significant risk was not 
the fair and reasonable thing to do. I also note that the declaration was based on Mr M 
having received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian International where, for the 
reasons I have given, Options ought to have been aware Caledonian did not have the 
competency to give such advice and there were questions about its motivations and 
integrity.
Asking Mr M to sign declarations was not an effective way for Options to meet its regulatory 
obligations, given the concerns Options ought to have identified about his introduction. So, it 
was not fair and reasonable to proceed, on the basis of these. I make this point only for 
completeness  the primary point is Mr M should simply not have been able to proceed, as 
his application should simply not have been accepted.
Fair compensation
I note Options says, in its response to the Investigators view, it is evident that Mr M wished 
to transfer his pension, whether through Options or another provider and would therefore 
have suffered the same loss as he did even if it had rejected his application.
I have seen no evidence to show that Mr M would have proceeded even if Options had 
rejected his application. He was contacted by Caledonian  which was consistent with its 
business model of contacting ex-servicemen and encouraging them to consider transferring 
out of their pensions  and Ive seen nothing to suggest he was looking to make a transfer 
prior to that contact. There is no basis to conclude that, of his own volition, he would have 
transferred from his Armed Forces Pension.
I have not, in any event, seen any evidence that any other SIPP operator dealt with 
Caledonian. And any operator acting fairly and reasonably should have reached the 
conclusion it should not deal with Caledonian. I do not think it would be fair to say Mr M 
should not be compensated based on speculation that another SIPP operator might have 
made the same mistakes as Options.
For similar reasons, I am not persuaded Mr M should not be compensated by Options, or his 
compensation should be reduced, because I have not made the finding that the FPI bond 
investment, in itself, was not something Options should have accepted. Or because the 
benefits from Mr Ms existing pension were lost once the transfer request was made. If 
Options had acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, the application would not have proceeded at all. So, no transfer request or FPI 
bond investment would have been made.
So, I am satisfied that Options failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry 
best practice at the relevant time have led to Mr M suffering a significant loss to his pension. 
And my aim is therefore to return Mr M to the position he would likely now be in but for 
Options failings.
Putting things right
In light of my above findings, in my view Options should calculate fair compensation by 
comparing the current position to the position Mr M would be in if he had not transferred from 
his existing pension. In summary, Options should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr M has suffered as a result of making the transfer.2. Take ownership of any investments which cant be surrendered, if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ms pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr M direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their failure to act fairly 
and reasonably.
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
Calculate the loss Mr M has suffered as a result of making the transfer (the loss 
calculation)
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publications/policy-statements/ps22-13-calculating-redress-non-
compliant-pension-transfer-advice.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M.
Options must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined 
pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.Options may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Options to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Take ownership of any investments held within the SIPP which cannot be surrendered
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment(s) 
need(s) to be removed from the SIPP. To do this, Options should calculate an amount it is 
willing to accept as a commercial value for any investments that cannot be surrendered and 
pay that sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant investments. This amount 
should be taken into account for the loss calculation.
If Options is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment(s) the value of them should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation if the investments are not readily 
realisable (or for any portion of the investments which is not readily realisable).
I appreciate such investments may have a realisable value in the future. So, for any 
investments assumed to be nil value Options may ask Mr M to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from those 
investment(s) in the future. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Mr M may receive from the investment(s) and any eventual sums he 
would be able to access. Options should meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
If Options does not take ownership of the investment(s), and it/they continue to be held in 
Mr Ms SIPP, there will be ongoing fees in relation to the administration of that SIPP. Mr M 
would not be responsible for those fees if Options had not accepted the transfer of his 
occupational pension into the SIPP. So, I think it is fair and reasonable for Options to waive 
any SIPP fees until such a time as Mr M can dispose of the investment(s) and close the 
SIPP.
Pay compensation to Mr M for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr M has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into his SIPP. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the compensation should 
be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief 
Mr M could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ms marginal rate of 
tax.
On the other hand, Options may not be able to pay the compensation into the SIPP. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr M direct. But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income.
Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to Mr M should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ms marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr M is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the 
total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the 
total amount.
Pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their failure to act fairly and 
reasonably
Mr M transferred his pension away from a valuable defined benefits pension scheme to a 
SIPP and had to suffer the loss of those benefits. This is money Mr M cannot afford to lose 
and it has caused him uncertainty about his future retirement plans.
I think its fair to say this would have caused Mr M some distress and inconvenience. So, I 
consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr M 
within 90 days of the date Options receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of this final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Options to pay Mr M this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Options deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Options should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Reassignment of rights
If Options believes other parties to be wholly or partly responsible for the loss, it is free to 
pursue those other parties. So, compensation payable to Mr M should be contingent on the 
assignment by him to Options of any rights of action he may have against other parties in 
relation to his transfer to the SIPP and the investments. The assignment should be given in 
terms that ensure any amount recovered by Options up to the balance due to Mr M is paid to 
him. Options should only benefit from the assignment once Mr M has been fully 
compensated for his loss.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
I do not know what award the above calculation might produce. So, whilst I acknowledge 
that the value of Mr Ms original investment (around £24,000) was within our award limit, for 
completeness I have included information below about what ought to happen if fair 
compensation amounted to more than our award limit.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as shown above. My decision is that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP should pay Mr M the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 
(including the £500 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience Options actions 
caused) plus interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Options to pay Mr M 
this compensation.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Options pays Mr M the balance. This recommendation is 
not part of my determination or award. Options doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its 
unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may 
want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP should calculate and pay Mr M the award set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman