DRN-1718671
The complaint
Dr F and Mr F are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has increased the amount it charges for 
processing foreign currency without properly explaining why.
What happened
Dr F received cheques four times each year in a foreign currency. She then paid this into her 
HSBC bank account. Each time a cheque was processed, HSBC charged a £6 or £12 
processing fee, depending on the cheque amount. However, in July 2019 the processing fee 
increased to £28.
Dr F complained to HSBC, both by visiting a branch and in writing. When HSBC responded 
to the complaint, it apologised that Dr F had been given contradictory information by branch 
staff. It explained the reason for the increase in fees and why the foreign currency cheques 
now took longer to process. It gave Dr and Mr F £100 compensation - £50 for the poor 
branch service and £50 to cover the cost of the increase for the two most recent cheques.
Dr F and Mr F complained to this service. They remained unhappy that they had not been 
given a proper explanation for the increase in fee and said the £100 compensation wouldnt 
make up for the increased processing fee. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as 
she thought that HSBC had acted reasonably. 
As Dr F and Mr F did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that the main focus of Dr F and Mr Fs complaint is that they havent had a full 
explanation for why the cheque processing fee has been increased, including a justification 
for it.
HSBCs terms and conditions explain that it has two ways to process foreign currency 
cheques  negotiation and collection. It says that when it negotiates a foreign currency 
cheque it has to work on trust and assume the cheque will clear. It pays the cheque 
amount into a customers account on the working day after it receives the cheque. When it 
uses collection, it sends the cheque to the paying bank and only pays the money into a 
customers account when it receives it.
The terms and conditions also explain the risks around processing foreign currency 
cheques. These say that if the foreign bank returns the cheque or asks for the money back, 
HSBC would need to take enough money out of the customers account to cover the 
payment in the foreign currency. If the exchange rate has changed, it may be a different 
amount to what was paid in. HSBC will do this even if the money had already spent the 
money or if it would put a customer into an unarranged overdraft.When HSBC responded to Dr Fs complaint it explained that foreign currency cheques had 
to be processed differently to cheques in pounds sterling. It had previously negotiated the 
payment of the cheque, the processing of which had a fee on a sliding scale of £6 to £60. 
However, it explained that it sometimes had to collect the fee before it could be applied to 
Dr Fs account. This process meant that it took longer for the fees to be applied to an 
account, but this is a safer process for both you and HSBC, as you know for certain that the 
funds in your account have been cleared. It said that in July 2019 HSBC had changed its 
policy for foreign cheques so that they were all sent for collection. This meant that all 
foreign currency cheques would now be charged the standard fee of £28.
On that basis, Im satisfied that HSBC has explained why the change was made. Looking at 
HSBCs response to Dr F, it says that using collection is a safer process because it means 
that customers know that the money has cleared. On that basis, I think it has explained and 
justified why it changed to using this method, even if Dr F doesnt agree with the reason, or 
feel it goes into as much depth as shed like. It is for HSBC to decide what method it uses to 
clear foreign cheques, taking into account whatever factors it thinks are relevant. In this 
instance, it has decided only to use the collection process for clearing foreign cheques to 
manage the risks presented. Having thought about this, I dont think that HSBC has done 
anything wrong in doing so, where this is a decision its entitled to make as a business.
Im also aware that there has been a significant increase in the fee Dr F has to pay, which is 
now a sizeable part of the cheques value. Dr F also thinks that its unfair that the fees are no 
longer tiered so that the amount charge depends on the value of the cheque. HSBC is able 
to set its fees at whatever level it thinks is appropriate for the service provided. If HSBC 
wants to charge a flat fee for a service, it is able to do so, even though this may impact 
customers differently as a result. Some customers will be better off, but some, like Dr F, will 
pay more. But that doesnt mean that HSBC has acted unfairly here  where its told Dr F 
about the changes in fees and explained why these have come into place.
Dr F has also raised a concern that in HSBCs terms and conditions it still lists both 
collection and negotiation as options to process foreign currency cheques. I asked HSBC 
about this. It said that its terms and conditions are correct, as both collection and negotiation 
have always existed as options and it doesnt guarantee which option it will use to process a 
foreign currency cheque. However, at present it has made a business decision to only 
collect payments, which is a change in the underlying policy rather than the terms and 
conditions themselves.
Again, thats a decision HSBC is entitled to take, but I have thought about this and the 
impact on the individual circumstances here. Although I can understand that Dr F thinks it is 
misleading to list both processing options, it does still remain open to HSBC to use either 
method to process foreign currency cheques. However, at present, it has made a business 
decision only to use one of those methods. I cant say that is unreasonable, particularly 
given that it is to manage the risk of payments having to be taken back from customers 
accounts. Although Dr F preferred the previous method for processing cheques, it was still 
HSBC that decided which method to use, not the customer, so this hasnt changed.
I can understand that Dr F was also unhappy that she found out about this change because 
less money was deposited in her account than normal when she received the payment for a 
foreign currency cheque. I asked HSBC about this as well and it said that it hadnt written to 
customers because the collection option had always existed. It said it had always been a 
possibility that cheques would be processed in this way and it had never provided 
information to customers on how it made the decision on which method to use. It also said 
that as it didnt know which customers might be due to pay in a cheque it didnt know who 
needed to be notified.Having thought about this, I can see why Dr F thought she should have been informed of the 
change in advance. However, given that it wasnt a change in the terms and conditions, I 
dont think HSBC was obliged to tell its customers about the change. Nonetheless, given the 
impact on Dr F, particularly given her expectations based on how cheques had previously 
been processed, I think it was reasonable for HSBC to recognise the impact that this change 
had on her and to pay her compensation. Given that Dr F is now aware of the change of 
policy, it is now for Dr F to decide whether this remains the most appropriate way to cash the 
cheques.
Dr F has also argued that she has received these cheques from the same company for 
many years and that, because of the source of the money, there is no way that once the 
cheque has been sent that it then cant be paid. However, for a bank to look into the 
payment history, standing of a company or other payee and the nature of the money being 
paid would be a significant task, even at an individual level, and it would have to do this each 
time it received a cheque. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect a bank to do this 
and, if it did so, it would presumably need to consider what an appropriate fee would be for 
this service.
Having thought about all of the above, I think HSBCs decision to treat the cheques as it has 
is reasonable in the circumstances and it has explained and justified why this is the case. I 
dont think it needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman