DRN-2304905
The complaint
Mr L has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called MYJAR 
Limited. He says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
What happened
We now know that Mr L took out 2 loans from MYJAR between December 2015 and March 
2016. Ive enclosed a summary of his borrowing with MYJAR, based on the information it 
provided to us: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 07/12/2015 29/02/2016 3 £325.00 £157.73
2 19/03/2016 not closed 6 £1,475.00 £475.88
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
in respect of loan number 2 only. MYJAR didnt agree so Ive been asked to make an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ls complaint.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
L could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr L could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
MYJAR told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr L including assessing his income and expenditure. It says this information showed that he 
would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing to. 
Having looked carefully over all the evidence we have, I dont think its clear enough that 
what MYJAR would have seen, from its checks, would have suggested loan number 1 was 
either unaffordable for Mr L or that the information from the checks it carried out undermined 
the income / outgoings Mr L had himself declared. For this first loan, as Ive said above, 
proportionate checks would have been at the less detailed end of the spectrum and I think 
MYJAR was entitled to rely on what it was being told, together with checks that would have 
exposed some, but certainly not all of Mr Ls financial profile. 
He had declared his income (after tax) as £1,700 per month and given the amount he was 
asking to borrow was quite moderate, I think this loan would have looked sustainable. Im 
therefore not upholding the complaint in respect of loan 1.
However, I think from the point of loan number 2, the situation was different. Whilst he was 
still in a situation where the lending relationship was at an early stage, loan 2 was applied for 
soon after loan 1 had ended, and importantly, it was for a much higher amount. 
I think any reasonable assessment of this situation ought to have caused a more 
comprehensive look at Mr Ls ability to pay, mainly because the monthly payments had 
increased substantially from the first loan. In fact, the amount Mr L needed to pay 
represented, in my view, such a high proportion of his salary as to be a real threat to the 
sustainability of the lending. Had MYJAR enquired further into this obvious risk, it would 
have seen Mr Ls ability to pay was certainly not sustainable in this case. He was paying out 
so much out outgoings that this loan simply was affordable for him. We now know, of 
course, he had difficulty with the payments.
I therefore uphold the complaint about loan 2 for these reasons. MYJARs lending in this 
regard was irresponsible.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr L, MYJAR should:refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat any payments 
Mr L made towards it as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Ls loan 2 account as Ive directed results in Mr L effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then MYJAR should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement; 
If reworking Mr Ls loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
MYJAR can use the total refund for any other outstanding loans to offset this. And if 
there is still an outstanding capital balance then I would remind MYJAR that it should 
take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr 
L for the remaining capital;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to loan 2;
If any of the debts were sold then MYJAR must attempt buy back the debt or 
otherwise ensure the above is strictly complied with.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr L a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman