DRN-4459573
The complaint
Mrs B complains Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) unfairly 
declined an accidental injury claim under a pet insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to all parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs household pet dog (C) was injured in an incident with a car which resulted in high 
medical costs. This incident was a very distressing time for the family, and Im pleased C is 
on the road to recovery. 
Mrs B raised a claim with C&G for accidental injury. While I have a great deal of sympathy 
for the impact this matter has had on Mrs B and her family, I must approach this complaint 
objectively. Having done so, Im satisfied C&G declined the claim fairly and reasonably. Ill 
explain why. 
Mrs Bs pet insurance covers a wide range of matters such as illness, theft, and accidental 
injury. But, like all insurance policies, it has limitations and conditions that apply to it. It isnt 
intended to cover every eventuality. The policy conditions relevant to this complaint are as 
follows: 
An accidental injury is defined as a sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or event, with a 
specific time and place which results in damage to one or more parts of Your pets body. 
You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent Accidental Injury or damage 
You must ensure that Your dog is under control at all times, and due care should be 
maintained to prevent Your dog from escaping and causing itself Accidental Injury 
or any other persons or animals
You must ensure Your pet cannot escape or stray from Your property 
You must ensure that any area in which Your pet is kept is secure and appropriately 
fenced or otherwise secured and all reasonable steps must be taken to prevent 
escape 
There is video footage of Mrs Bs garden and the front of her house. This shows the 
following: 
Mrs Bs children were playing in the garden with C. The garden was to the rear of 
their home, enclosed with a side gate. 
One of the children entered the home. The other remained in the garden with C and 
then exited through the side gate at 19:46:25 (+/- a second or two). 
C mulled about in the garden on their own, and then quite slowly and hesitantly, left 
the garden through the side gate at 19:46:53 (+/- a second or two). 
At 19:47:49 (+/- a second or two) a woman knocked on the front door to notify the 
family of the incident involving her car. 
Based on the above, Im satisfied C was left in an unsecured garden, unattended, and not 
prevented from escaping. C therefore wasnt under Mrs B (or her familys) control. This is 
further supported by the escape and the incident going unnoticed until drawn to their 
attention by a third party. Ive also kept in mind C didnt run out the gate when the 
opportunity arose so quickly a family member couldnt have done anything to reasonably 
prevent it. The gate was open between the family member exiting through it, to the third 
party notifying them of what happened. Therefore, it follows, I find it was fair and reasonable 
for C&G to decline the claim for accidental injury to C. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs B and her household. But it ends 
what we  in attempting to resolve her claim dispute with C&G  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman