DRN-3024772
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Northern Bank Limited (Northern Bank) wont refund the money 
they lost when they were the victims of a scam.
  
What happened
Mr R was cold called by someone claiming to be from a company Ill call company A who 
persuaded him to invest in a solar energy project. He received numerous phone calls and 
some emails from the company. Mr R looked at the companys website, but as a first-time 
investor wasnt aware of other steps he should take before deciding to invest. 
On 2 February 2019 Mr R made a payment of £10,000 from his joint account with Mrs R and 
after this he received a certificate of ownership. When he invested, he was told hed receive 
dividend payments twice a year in June and December and would receive a fixed rate of 
interest of 7.5%. On 21 May 2019 he received a dividend of £375 as expected. 
Soon after he received this payment Mr R was persuaded to invest a further £10,000 and 
received a second certificate of ownership. This payment was made on 1 July 2019. Before 
making this payment, Mr Rs daughter asked friends for guidance and advised Mr R not to 
invest because company A wasnt FCA registered. Mr R went ahead because hed received 
a dividend as expected so was persuaded company A was a legitimate company. 
On 28 January 2020 Mr R received a further interest payment of £856.02 but he didnt 
receive the next payment and was unable to contact company A from then on. Mr and Mrs R 
reported the scam to Northern Bank on 14 July 2020. They later employed a private 
investigator to try to refund their funds. The investigator is representing other people whove 
fallen victim to the same scam but hasnt been successful in recovering Mr and Mrs Rs 
funds. 
Northern Bank didnt agree to refund Mr and Mrs R. In summary it said Mr and Mrs R 
authorised the payment and it contacted the payee bank on the day the scam was reported 
but was advised that no funds remained. Whilst it initially only reported the first payment 
Northern Bank said its delay in reporting the second payment hadnt made a difference. 
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with Northern Banks response and so brought a complaint to 
this service. The investigator who considered it asked Northern Bank to refund Mr and Mrs R 
£20,000 plus interest. She said the first payment was unusual and wouldnt have been made 
if Northern Bank had asked questions about it and provided a scam warning. 
Northern Bank didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
- Company A appears to be a legitimate company which is registered with Companies 
House and reviews suggest people are still investing.
- Mr and Mrs R received dividend payments on two occasions which suggests 
company A is a legitimate company.
- Northern Bank hasnt been provided with any evidence to show the family engaged a 
private investigator and their findings.
- There wasnt enough to cause Northern Bank concern or lead it to stop the first 
payment. There was no technical reason to stop the payment as it was made to a 
valid account and Northern Banks systems would have recognised this. And the 
payment was made via e-Banking using Mr and Mrs Rs device and correct 
passcodes. At the time the payment was made there was no indication company A 
wasnt legitimate.
- The payments werent manually investigated but even if they had been Northern 
Bank doesnt think the payments would have been prevented because company A 
was a legitimate company and Mr and Mrs R received dividends. Mr and Mrs R were 
convinced of the legitimacy of company A until July 2020.
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint was then passed to me to consider. After careful consideration I 
contacted Northern Bank and asked it to refund all of Mr and Mrs Rs losses less the interest 
payments theyd already received, plus interest. In summary I explained I was persuaded Mr 
and Mrs R had been the victims of a cruel scam. In support of this conclusion I provided 
Northern Bank with evidence from the private investigator Mr and Mrs R employed saying 
the firm represented eight victims whod lost a total of nearly £400,000. I noted there is a 
company with the same name as company A registered with Companies House, but its not 
an investment company. I also provided a link to a review which suggests company A isnt a 
legitimate company. 
I went on to say I thought the first payment was unusual and uncharacteristic given Mr and 
Mrs Rs usual account history and so Northern Bank should have asked some questions 
about the reason for the payment. I concluded that had it done so Mr and Mrs R wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the first payment  in which case it follows the second payment 
wouldnt have been made. 
Northern Bank responded and agreed to refund the first payment only (without any interest). 
It said:
- It accepts the first £10,000 payment wasnt identified as unusual and it didnt call Mr 
and Mrs R about it at the time of payment, but it had no responsibility to check the 
commercial wisdom of the decision.
- Northern Bank doesnt believe that the type of questions it should reasonably have 
asked when the first payment was made would have successfully deterred Mr and 
Mrs R from making it. This is because Mr and Mrs R made the second payment even 
though theyd been advised not to do so. 
- In Northern Banks opinion it would also be fair to say that those who advised Mr and 
Mrs R not to proceed with the second payment (the managing director of a solar 
panel firm and an investment banker) would also have advised Mr and Mrs R not to 
rely on the fact theyd received dividends after the first investment. 
- It would refund the first payment even though the outcome is unclear even if it had 
made a call but wouldnt add interest because of its doubt as to whether its 
intervention would have persuaded Mr and Mrs R not to go ahead with the payment.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the PaymentServices Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Northern Bank should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In response to my email setting out what I thought about this complaint Northern Bank didnt 
say it still thought company A was a legitimate company, so I wont cover this in my final 
decision except to say Im persuaded Mr and Mrs R are the victims of a cruel scam.  
Did Northern Bank act fairly and reasonably in Mr and Mrs Rs case?
I consider that Northern Bank should have recognised that Mr and Mrs R may be the victims 
of fraud when they made the first payment of £10,000 and asked them some questions 
about it. I say this because the transaction was for a much higher sum than the usual 
transactions from the account and was to a new payee. Statements show the account was 
used primarily for low value payments of a few hundred pounds and below. The highest 
value transaction in the six-month period before the scam was a payment of £2,645.66 to a 
well-known insurance company. So I think a payment of £10,000 stood out and that Mr and 
Mrs R should have been asked some proportionate questions about it, particularly bearing in 
mind their age and the fact that elderly people like them are often targeted by fraudsters. It 
seems from Northern Banks response to my recent email that it accepts the payment was 
unusual and out of character.
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been asked by Northern Bank would have made a difference in this 
case. Having done so, its my belief that had Northern Bank asked proportionate questions 
and given Mr and Mrs R a warning about investment scams they wouldnt have made the 
payment. Northern Bank should have asked Mrs and Mrs R questions like:
- The purpose of the transaction 
- How they found out about it  
- Their level of investment experience
- The rate of return
- What checks theyd completed to ensure they were investing with a genuine 
authorised investment company
I accept Northern Banks point that it wasnt its responsibility to check the commercial 
wisdom of Mr and Mrs Rs decision to invest, but thats not what Im suggesting. Northern Bank has a responsibility to protect Mr and Mrs R from financial harm. As they were making 
an unusual payment, I consider Northern Bank should have done more to protect them.
If Northern Bank had asked the kind of questions Ive suggested it would have established 
that there were a number of concerning factors here such as:
- Mr and Mrs R were cold-called.
- They were offered an investment opportunity in solar energy. There have been a lot 
of scams in this area.
- Mr and Mrs R were first-time investors and had no knowledge of the type of checks 
they needed to take to protect their funds.
- The rate of return was high.
- Mr and Mrs R werent paying the company that contacted them about investing.
- Company A isnt authorised to sell bonds.
The responses to these questions should have caused Northern Bank, as the expert here, 
concern and led it to provide scam warnings about fake and cloned investment companies. 
Id also expect Northern Bank to provide advice about some simple steps Mr and Mrs R 
could take to protect their retirement funds  like checking the company they wish to invest 
with is authorised. Northern Bank could also have made clear to Mr and Mrs R the 
consequences of making a faster payment that later turned out to be a scam. 
I see no reason why Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have taken Northern Banks warnings seriously 
if theyd been cautioned to consider and check the legitimacy of the investment before 
proceeding. If theyd been made aware that fake investment companies exist, I believe Mr 
and Mrs R would have checked that company A was properly registered before making a 
payment. Ive seen no indication that Mr and Mrs R were so anxious to proceed that they 
would have ignored warnings or been unprepared to postpone the payment to reflect on the 
matter and make these further enquiries. This is particularly so because they were not 
looking to invest at the time they were cold called.
Ive also thought about Northern Banks point that even if it had intervened when the first 
payment was made Mr and Mrs R would have proceeded to make it because they made the 
second payment even after theyd been advised not to. I think the fact Mr and Mrs R 
received the interest payment they expected after the first payment persuaded them that 
company A was a genuine investment company and to invest again. But the position was 
different at the time of the first payment. Mr and Mrs R hadnt built a relationship with the 
scammer(s) and had little reason to trust them. So if theyd have been warned about fake 
investment companies I believe theyd have been much more cautious.  
I appreciate Northern Banks point that we dont know for sure what would have happened if 
Northern Bank had called Mr and Mrs R at the time of the first payment. But the point is that 
Northern Bank didnt ask questions when Ive concluded it should have. In the circumstances 
I have to consider what I think is most likely to have happened if questions had been asked. 
Given what I have said about the first payment it follows that I also consider that Mr and Mrs 
Rs second payment should have been refunded. If proportionate questions had been asked 
and the first payment hadnt been made, then the second payment also wouldnt have been 
made. So I dont consider there is any benefit in exploring what might have been discussed 
in a call between Northern Bank and Mr and Mrs R when the second payment was made. 
Mr and Mrs R have raised concerns about Northern Banks efforts to recover their lost funds. 
In light of my conclusions above, it isnt necessary in this case to consider whether Northern 
Bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover funds from the payee 
banks. But for completeness, I consider Northern Bank should have also reported the 
second payment to the payee bank when Mr and Mrs R reported the scam. But I believe that 
given the fact that Northern Bank was told no funds remained in respect of the first payment, and the time that elapsed between the second payment and date the scam was reported, it 
wouldnt have made a difference to the outcome. Scam funds are usually removed very soon 
after a scam so I dont think its likely that all those months later any funds would have 
remained.   
Putting things right
Overall, Im persuaded that Northern Bank didnt do enough to protect Mr and Mrs R and 
that had it done so their loss could have been avoided. In the circumstances I think Northern 
Bank should now refund Mr and Mrs Rs losses together with interest as set out below. 
  
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above I require Northern Bank Limited to:
- Refund Mr and Mrs R £18,768.98 (£20,000 less the two interest payments of £375 
and £856.02) less any funds already recovered;
- Pay interest on the above sum at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement. If Northern Bank deducts tax from the 
interest element of this award, it should provide Mr and Mrs R with an appropriate tax 
deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman