DRN-4101626
The complaint
Mr C complains a Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) system error 
resulted in his payment for a flight to be cancelled causing financial loss.
What happened
Mr C says he booked an overseas flight using two separate credit cards, one with another 
provider which was successful. Mr C says when he attempted to make the transaction using 
his Barclaycard he received a secure message asking for security details which he provided 
but the payment was  still declined. Mr C says he then contacted the travel company asking 
them to split the payments and got a further message from Barclays asking him to confirm 
the payment was genuine, which again he confirmed. The payment was still declined. 
Mr C says he made attempts to call Barclays on 23 and 24 September 2022 but couldnt get 
through as the lines were busy. Eventually Mr C says he spoke with Barclays fraud 
department on 25 September 2022 who explained there was a system error, and the 
payment should have been made. 
Mr C says Barclays should have authorised the payment on the first attempt after he had 
cleared its security measures, but because it didnt he had to re book his flights by which 
time they had increased in price by over £1,000. Mr C wants Barclays to compensate him for 
the financial loss he incurred. 
Barclays says it has security measures in place to protect its customers and after further 
security checks were completed Mr Cs card was cleared on 25 September 2022, but Mr C 
only made the payment for the flight booking on 28 September 2022 when the agent he was 
using had returned to work. Barclays agreed the telephony service he had received was 
poor and paid him £25 by way of apology.
Mr C wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator says she looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the 
complaint. Initially the investigator felt Barclays were entitled to carry out its security checks 
and she wasnt able to tell it what security measures it must have in place. On further review 
the investigator felt that Barclays agent had provided Mr C with misleading and confusing 
information surrounding the transaction and felt it should increase the offer of compensation 
for this by a further £50.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be partially upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have 
come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr C to have his credit card transactions 
declined even though he believed hed done everything he could to authorise the payments 
for his travel booking. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays acted unfairly when it declined Mr 
Cs credit card transactions, after he had already confirmed it was him making those 
transactions. 
Mr Cs complaint centres around the fact even though he had acknowledged electronically, 
that the credit card payments he was making for his travel arrangements were genuine, 
Barclays still refused these payments, and this was because its security systems had failed. 
Mr C says this was confirmed to him in a telephone conversation with a Barclays agent on 
25 September 2022 and as a result of Barclays actions, he missed out on a beneficial offer 
on the price of the flights he wanted to book. 
While I understand the points Mr C makes here, Im not fully persuaded by his argument. I 
say this because although Mr C may believe by him having authorised the payments for his 
flights on more than one occasion by electronic message, that must mean the payments 
must be authorised - but thats not necessarily the case, as Barclays have explained it was 
still carrying out further background checks in light of recent increased activity of fraud and 
scams on travel bookings. 
Although Mr C may not fully agree, its not my role to tell Barclays what security and fraud 
procedures it must adopt or have in place. I have listened to the phone call Mr C refers to on 
Sunday 25 September 2022 with the Barclays agent and although Mr C implies he was 
clearly told Barclays had a security system problem at the time he attempted the payments, I 
cant say he was actually told that here, that said the agent does slightly complicate matters 
when she went on to say she couldnt understand why the payments had failed. 
The agent also admitted she didnt have access to all of the systems as she was working 
from home, but then went on to explain frauds were manic on holiday bookings at the 
moment and fraudsters could have knowledge of its customers text messages. So, its 
reasonable to say Mr C was given an explanation why the payments hed attempted were 
held for further security checks, although I agree this could have been made clearer at the 
time. 
Barclays have also informed this service there wasnt a security system failure at the time 
and it was conducting further security checks in the background, and I am satisfied that isnt 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
I can see that after the telephone call on 25 September 2022 Mr Cs credit card was cleared 
ready for the payments to been made - although its not immediately apparent why Mr C 
didnt make the booking until the 28 September 2022, although this may have been a result 
of his travel agents availability.  
Barclays agreed Mr C didnt get the best level of service when he was attempting to 
telephone them and he experienced long wait times, so it paid Mr C £25 for that, but like the 
investigator I agree a further £50 is more appropriate here. 
While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I cant hold Barclays responsible for the 
fact Mr Cs flight bookings were delayed while it carried out additional security checks, for 
the reasons I have already explained.Putting things right
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to pay Mr C a further £50 for the 
poor service it provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to pay Mr C a further £50 for the 
poor service it provided. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman