DRN-3239506
The complaint
Miss W complains about personal loans she had with Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) She said 
BoS shouldnt have lent to her as the loans werent affordable for her.
What happened
In July 2015, Miss W took out a personal loan with BoS. Initially this was for £10,000 but 
within days Miss W asked for this to be increased to £14,000. The £14,000 loan was 
approved with a monthly repayment of £432.10 over 36 months. In November 2015 Miss W 
applied for another personal loan with BoS, this time for £8,000 repayable at £219.98 per 
month over 60 months.
Miss W said when she applied for the first loan, she was at the time working for BoS but 
shortly after changed her employment. She also started to struggle with her mental well 
being and had to change her job again, this meant her monthly salary reduced from around 
£2,000 per month to £1,000 per month. She said she asked BoS for help and they did 
arrange for some repayment holidays. But when she asked to consolidate the loans to 
reduce the monthly repayments, they said they couldnt do this as she was meeting her 
repayments. Miss W said she struggled financially and BoS defaulted her account. She 
complained to BoS as she said they didnt do enough checks to determine the loans 
affordability.
BoS said theyd a two stage process in their loan application. The first stage was based on a 
credit score. The score being calculated using information provided by Miss W in her loan 
application(s), information from Miss Ws credit file and any internal information they held. If 
the score was sufficiently high enough the loan application(s) would move to the next stage, 
where an assessment of Miss Ws income and expenditure would be considered to decide 
the affordability of the loan. BoS said on the checks theyd made the loan(s) seemed 
affordable and so theyd lent to Miss W. 
Miss W wasnt happy with BoSs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said the affordability assessment done by BoS showed Miss W had 
disposable income each month after paying her loan commitments. He didnt think BoS had 
lent irresponsibility as both loans seemed affordable.
Miss W didnt agree she said the income used in the affordability assessment was higher 
than she earned. And that no account had been taken of her rent and other living costs. She 
said her rent was £700-£750 per month to which she was paying half. And she also had 
council tax to pay each month of £160.
Our investigator considered this but said the rent and council tax payments showed after the 
loans were taken out and so wouldnt have been included in the affordability assessment. 
Miss W didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them
the lending was affordable, and that the repayments were sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair.
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan(s) would have been approved if the checks had taken place. In reaching my decision
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
Theres no set list for what constitutes reasonable and proportionate checks. But the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 5.2A.20R provides guidance as to the extent and 
scope of a creditworthiness assessment and the steps needed to satisfy the requirement 
that the assessment is a reasonable one, based on sufficient information and proportionate 
to, the individual circumstances of each case.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. This means BoS in 
lending to Miss W are required to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether she could 
afford to repay the loan(s) in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused  so BoS needed to think about
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for
her. This means it wasnt enough for them to only think about the likelihood that they would 
get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Miss W.
Checks should be proportionate having consideration for the specific circumstances of the 
loan application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend 
on several factors such as the circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current
situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. Consideration should be given to the amount, type and cost of 
credit thats being applied for. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different loan 
applications. So, Ive considered whether BoS in lending to Miss W had been thorough in the 
checks they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to 
lend to her. Miss W took out the following loans with BoS:
Miss Ws application data for the July 2015 loan showed an address where she said she was 
living with her parents, she was single and employed. At the first stage Miss W was 
accepted based on her credit score. BoS considered Miss Ws bank statements for the three 
months prior to the loan, April, May and June 2015 and calculated shed an average monthly 
income of £1,965.20. In reviewing her bank statements, they said they didnt identify any 
housing costs. And after taking the new loan into account BoS assessed Miss W had 
£1,533.10 in disposable income. So deemed the loan as affordable.
But this doesnt take into account Miss Ws other credit commitments or any regular monthly 
living costs. From her credit file I can see shed a credit card with a balance at the time of the 
loan of £418. Ive also looked at her bank statements and while I cant see any housing costs 
for rent, it does show repayment  to the credit card showing on her credit file and outgoings 
for petrol, and some small amounts for food. Its also clear from Miss Ws bank statements 
that she was making payments for other bills not showing on her credit file. Her bank 
statements show benefit payments being paid into her account, as Miss W was employed 
these most likely werent hers. And as the other credit commitments werent registered to 
Miss Ws credit file, I think these were also unlikely to be hers. Miss Ws own credit 
commitments were small, when I include the other regular payments leaving her account. I  
think Miss W would still have had in excess of £1,000 each month in disposable income. So, 
I think BoS had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks and on the information, 
theyd seen BoS deemed the loan was affordable, I dont think they acted irresponsibly in 
lending to her.
For the November 2015 loan, BoS customer information for Miss W still showed the same 
address and that she was single and living with her parents. The application data shows the 
loan was for a car. Again, Miss Ws  credit score was accepted and BoS assessed her 
affordability. They again reviewed her bank statements over the three months to the loan 
approval, August, September and October 2015 and these showed Miss Ws monthly salary 
had decreased. BoS averaged this as £1,463.55, which was in line to Miss Ws declared 
income of £1,400. Taking her credit commitment for the July 2015 loan repayment and the 
new loan repayment, they assessed Miss W (based on a £1,400 monthly salary) had 
£747.92 in disposable income. BoS said they hadnt seen any housings costs from Miss Ws 
bank statements. 
But again, this didnt take into account any other credit commitments or regular monthly 
outgoings. I can see from Miss Ws credit file that in September 2015 shed taken out 
another credit card. I can see the address recorded is the same as that held on record by 
BoS which was understood to be her parents address. The credit limit was £2,000 and at 
the time of the second loan there was a balance outstanding of £1,123. I can also see from 
Miss Ws bank statements that some of the loan from July 2015 was used to clear some of 
the credit commitments that were being paid from her bank accounts.
While BoS records show Miss W as living with her parents, her bank statements for August, 
September and October 2015 show an increase in food costs, subscription to a media 
platform and regular payments leaving the account  for a mail order account and mobile 
phone. I can also see payments in for bills from another account, not Miss Ws. Date Amount Term Monthly Repayment
Loan One Jul 2015 14,00036 months £432.10
Loan TwoNov 2015 8,00060 months £219.98But in considering the payments for food, petrol and credit commitments, Id consider      
Miss W would  have had around £400 in disposable income (without taking into account the 
bill money being paid in). I know Miss W has said she was paying rent, but I havent seen 
any evidence from her statements to support this. I can see a deposit of £700 being made 
but there isnt anything that shows a regular payment for rent, utilities or council tax. So,I 
think the checks BoS carried out  were proportionate and reasonable, theyd included Miss 
Ws bank statements. And I cant hold BoS accountable for something they havent seen. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable of BoS to lend to her.
Shortly after the second loan was made, I can see that Miss W changed her job. This meant 
she received a weekly rather than monthly salary and reduced her overall monthly income to 
around £1150, reducing her disposable income each month to below £100. And from here 
Miss W began struggling financially. But BoS  wouldnt have been aware of this at the time of 
the loan.
CONC Section 7  says lenders should consider consumers in financial difficulty with 
forbearance and due consideration. I can see that when BoS was made aware of Miss Ws 
change in circumstances in February and March 2016 they arranged for her to take a 
payment holiday. And her accounts were placed with a debt manager. I havent seen any 
evidence to show that BoS acted unfairly or unreasonably.
I know Miss W will be disappointed with my decision but on the evidence Ive seen I cant 
fairly say that BoS lent to Miss W irresponsibly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman