DRN-3652435
The complaint
Miss S and Miss W complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have 
conducted credit searches which have left a footprint on their credit files without proper 
warning or instruction. They want these searches to be removed from their credit files.
What happened
On 21 July 2021, Miss S and Miss W used their online banking app to investigate taking out 
a joint loan. They began the process twice, in order to see indicative rates, but did not submit 
either application. Each of these part-applications led to a full credit check, which has 
appeared on the credit files of both Miss S and Miss W.
Miss S didnt think that was right, as she discussed potentially taking out a loan with 
NatWest during a phone call on 21 July 2020. In that call, NatWest told her that it would be 
making a soft search of her credit file which would not leave a footprint. So she called the 
bank when she noticed these checks on their credit files. She was advised that the checks 
which had been done during the telephone call should not appear, and the bank worker 
could not explain why they had done so, and suggested that the searches should be 
removed.
Miss S and Miss W say that they did not receive sufficient warning that this was part of the 
process that they were following, and that they did not consent to these searches. NatWest 
says that the app gives warnings that they will run a full credit check to decide whether an 
application will be accepted. It also says that there is a warning before the application 
process begins that the applicants will be credit scored. It says that this takes place during 
the process, rather than at the point of submitting the application, and that the customer 
must consent to this by ticking the relevant box on the application. NatWest also says that it 
never conducts soft searches in relation to joint applications.
Miss S and Miss W dont remember seeing these warnings, and feel that they are too vague 
in any event. They say that references to credit scored or full credit checks do not 
necessarily mean hard checks which will leave a footprint. They say that this needs to be 
made very clear for consent to be effective.
While NatWest does not think that it has got anything wrong, it has offered Miss S and Miss 
W £150 as a goodwill gesture.
Our investigator considered this complaint, and thought that the bank had not acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. They thought that the bank had made clear that checks would be carried 
out, and that they had been. They thought that £150 was a reasonable offer and did not ask 
the bank to do anything more.
Miss S and Miss W did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.During the course of the investigation, references have been made to an ongoing subject 
access request (SAR) from Miss S and Miss W to NatWest. But in this decision I can only 
look at their complaint about the searches, where NatWest has issued its final response to 
that. I note that NatWest says that it has provided everything relevant to the SAR already. If 
Miss S and Miss W wish to complain directly to the bank about the handling of their SAR, 
they may of course do so.
I have listened to Miss Ss phone call with the bank from 21 July 2021. Potential loans and 
rates are discussed, and the potential impact of searches on credit files is mentioned. Miss S 
talked about potentially seeking a joint loan, but the difference this would make in terms of 
hard and soft searches was not mentioned. The NatWest employee was not acting as an 
advisor, but only discussing the topic at a broad level. So at this stage NatWest only gave 
information based on the circumstances of that call, where the focus was on Miss S asking 
about a loan as an individual.
Miss S also says that another staff member at a later date hadnt known that hard searches 
would follow a joint application through the app. I do not think that it would be reasonable to 
require staff to warn of the necessity of a hard search in all joint loans when the topic was 
being discussed in this way, and so I dont think NatWest treated Miss S unfairly or 
unreasonably at that stage.
I have listened to a later call from Miss S to NatWest, where she was advised that the 
searches should not have appeared on her credit file as no application had been completed. 
It is clear from the call that Miss S was asking about searches during her telephone call, 
rather than the online application. She was correctly told that no hard searches should have 
been done during the telephone call of 21 July 2021. The bank worker also specifically 
asked whether Miss S had made any applications through the app on the same day as the 
telephone call, which she had in fact done. This question was not fully answered, which 
contributed to the confusion as to whether the searches had been properly recorded.
Miss S and Miss W do not recall seeing warnings about the searches which would be carried 
out and, in any event, say that the wording which has now been described to them is too 
vague. I have considered these points separately. 
Firstly, I have looked at the screenshots which have been provided by NatWest, and which it 
says forms part of the application process. The first, which precedes logging in and 
completing any forms at all, says well run a full credit check to tell you if youre accepted for 
a joint loan. The second, which is part of the form which must be completed, says By 
clicking Yes you agree you meet the above eligibility criteria and consent to being credit 
scored. NatWest says that these screens were both active at the time of the applications, 
and I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that this is correct, where the applications 
look to have been processed in line with NatWests usual systems and procedures. More 
likely is that Miss S and Miss W have simply, and understandably, forgotten some of the 
specific wording of the many screens that they read.
Secondly, I must consider whether these screens give fair warning that a more detailed 
credit check than the soft search which had been carried out over the telephone would 
follow. On balance, I think that they do. The reference to a full credit check is a clear one, 
and can only mean a search which is complete and in-depth. The later reference to 
consenting to being credit scored is potentially less clear in isolation, but combined with the 
earlier reference, is reasonably clear. I think that NatWest had done enough to make clear 
that full credit checks would be carried out, and I think that this is what it did. I note that Miss S and Miss W say that a reference to a hard search would have been 
clearer to them. I can understand this, but the question for me is whether NatWest have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably, and I do not think that the wording that it chose was either 
unfair or unreasonable. Ultimately, what NatWest has recorded is an accurate representation 
of what happened here  which is that Miss S and Miss W applied for loans and thats whats 
showing on their credit files. The reporting of accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies is an important responsibility of a lender, and recording these searches was fair 
and reasonable.
I have considered whether the fact that he applications were not submitted, meaning that the 
process did not reach a stage where documents were generated and sent out for signature, 
means that the searches should not have been carried out, or else not recorded. Given the 
early stage in the process at which consent was sought, and given, I do not think that it was 
unfair or unreasonable to carry out the searches during the application process. There was 
nothing to suggest that consent would be asked for again, or in some way finalised, later in 
the process. By clicking Yes, Miss S and Miss W consented to the searches which were 
carried out. Even if Miss S and Miss W werent entirely clear on what basis this would be 
recorded  Ive explained above why I dont think its fair to hold NatWest responsible for 
that. 
I do not think that NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably toward Miss S or Miss W. It 
gave warnings that these checks would be carried out, and they were consented to. In the 
circumstances, I am not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Miss 
W to accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman