DRN-2744258
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, displayed 
non-sterling transaction fees on his statement.
What happened
In 2019, Mr Y made two non-sterling transactions using his Barclaycard credit card. Mr Y 
was charged a fee for making the transactions and while he accepts that he would be 
charged extra for making these types of transactions, he is unhappy about the way 
Barclaycard lays out these fees on his monthly statements. 
He says the way the fees are shown on the monthly statement arent transparent, as theyre 
not on the front page where he would have expected them to be. He says he wasnt aware 
until he received his annual statement, that he had incurred fees for the non-sterling 
transactions he made. He says the annual statement he got displays the fees in a clear way 
on the front page.
Mr Y says that if Barclaycard had been clearer in the way it displayed these fees, and had it 
been on the front page of his monthly statement, he wouldnt have made the second non-
sterling transaction.
Barclaycard responded to Mr Ys complaint to say it hadnt done anything wrong in the way it 
displayed non-sterling transaction fees  and that the fees were shown alongside the 
transactions on the statement.
Mr Y still didnt think that he had been treated fairly by Barclaycard and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. He also complained about the way Barclaycard had handled his 
complaint. He said to resolve the matter, he would like Barclaycard to refund the total 
amount he was charged for the non-sterling transactions which was £2.52.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ys complaint. They thought that Barclaycard were fair in 
charging a fee for the non-sterling transactions, and they didnt think that it had been unfair 
in the way it had displayed the fees. They also let Mr Y know this service wouldnt be able to 
consider his complaint about the way Barclaycard had handled his complaint.
Mr Y didnt agree with our investigator. He said he accepted that there was a fee for these 
types of transactions. But he didnt accept that Barclaycard had acted fairly in the way that it 
displayed the fees. He also requested that we consider his complaint about how Barclaycard 
handled his complaint.
Because Mr Y didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. Mr Y is already aware that I have decided this service cant consider his complaint 
about the way it handled his complaint. And so, I will now make a decision on the part we 
can consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately, its up to Barclaycard how it chooses to display fees and charges on its 
statements  as long as these are displayed in a clear way. Based on everything Ive seen, I 
dont think it has been unfair in the way it has chosen to do this. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ys July 2019 statement from when he made one of the non-sterling 
transactions. I can see on the front of the statement theres a section on there to show what 
other charges had been applied to the statement balance  on this particular statement it 
shows that there hadnt been any other charges applied that month. I can see Mr Ys point 
here that it wouldnt be clear from looking at the front page of the statement that hed been 
charged for making a non-sterling transaction.
But when Ive looked at the second page of this statement, I can see the non-sterling 
transaction. Underneath the transaction itself, it says Incl Non Sterling Trans Fee of £1.77. 
In my opinion, its clear from looking at page two of the statement that there was a charge for 
making this type of transaction. Page two of the statement shows all the transactions Mr Y 
had made that month  so I think its reasonable of Barclaycard to assume that this part of 
the statement would have been seen by its customer.  
Mr Y says he didnt check the second page of this statement and so wasnt aware of the fee. 
This might well be the case, but I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Barclaycard 
responsible for Mr Y choosing not to read his statement in full. And given that information 
about the fee is on the statement, and directly below the transaction itself, I cant fairly say 
that Barclaycard failed to let him know about the fee he incurred when making the 
transaction.
I take on board Mr Ys point that the annual statement does show the non-sterling 
transaction fee on its front page  and this is shown under the fees section. There isnt a 
fees section on the front of the monthly statement, so I dont find the annual statement to be 
inconsistent with the monthly statement. And as Ive said, the information about the fee and 
the cost is displayed on the monthly statement  just not on the front page.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman