The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2001 in connection to a credit card. Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading 
as Barclaycard) mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs G complained that the policy had been mis-sold. She bought the PPI on a postal 
application form when she applied for a credit card. She says she felt pressured to buy PPI; 
Barclays said she needed to have it and she felt it was implied that she wouldnt get the 
credit card without the PPI. She adds no-one explained any of the exclusions and limitations 
or the terms and conditions of the policy.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs G disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 Although Mrs G said she felt pressured to buy the PPI, I noted this PPI was bought on
a postal application form  probably sent to her home. So Mrs G would have been able
to look at the form in her own time, before she decided to buy PPI. She would not have
had any contact with any Barclays staff at the time of the sale to apply any pressure to
buy it, so I dont think there is enough evidence here to uphold the complaint on the
ground that she was pressured. I think Barclays made it clear enough that Mrs G didnt
have to take out the PPI on the form and she most likely had time to consider her
decision before finally choosing to take it out  although I can understand why she cant
remember this.
 Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G, so it didnt have to check if it was right for
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed so she could
decide if it was right for her.
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look
DRN-1924859like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off from 
taking out the cover. 
 I also noted Mrs G said she had no savings and had limited employee benefits. So I
think the policy could have been of value to her if something went wrong  giving her
some peace of mind that her credit card repayments could be made if she could not work
due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
All of which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs G,
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - including what she said about Barclays 
making her feel she needed to take it out, and that nothing was fully explained to her. But 
these points dont change my decision. The sale was non-advised, so it was up to Mrs G to 
decide on the information in the leaflet she most likely had been given as to whether the 
policy was right for her.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs G. 
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman