DRN-2257642
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined her pet insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mrs V holds a pet insurance policy with Great Lakes for her dog, S. In early 2020, she 
notified a claim for cardiac investigation/scan  which Great Lakes declined. It said the 
investigation hadnt been prescribed due to illness  but had been sought by Mrs V due to 
the prevalence of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) in Ss breed. And the policy doesnt cover 
routine, elective or preventative treatment. 
Our investigator reached the view that Great Lakes had considered the claim fairly. But 
Mrs V disagrees. She says S had what she considered to be concerning symptoms  heart 
palpitations at night and an irregular cough. So she sought advice and an investigation, 
which found that Ss heart was healthy and no further treatment was needed. She thinks this 
should be covered by the policy. Im therefore making the final decision on this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
The policy provides cover if your pet needs medical treatment. As the relevant section of 
the policy document goes on to explain: 
Unfortunately, your pet may fall in or be injured and need treatment by a medical 
professional. This part of our cover helps you to pay for such bills.
The document also explains what is meant by illness:
when we say illness we mean any injuries, disease, sickness or infection suffered 
by your pet and diagnosed by a vet
And it sets out what isnt covered:
we will not pay for any routine or preventative healthcare, for example, vaccinations, 
tick, worming and flea treatments, grooming and nailcare, spaying and neutering
we will not pay for any treatments you choose that have not been prescribed by a 
vet
This means Mrs V is covered if S is treated for illness or injury. But not for routine or 
preventative healthcare. Nor for treatment that she chooses without it being prescribed by a 
vet.
The vets notes from when the investigation was arranged say:
O[wner] also mentioned due to breed would like heart scan (echo) and holter 
monitor. As wants to check no sign of DCMs.
Whilst I take on board what Mrs V has told us about Ss symptoms, I cant disregard the 
contemporaneous notes from when the investigation was arranged. These also show that, 
when Ss heart was checked during the appointment, the rate and palpitations were found to 
be wnl  i.e., within normal limits. And whilst the note mentions Mrs V reporting symptoms 
unconnected to booking the scan (such as an eye issue), it doesnt mention her reporting a 
cough (or palpitations, although I can see this was checked during the appointment). The 
wording suggests that Mrs V sought the scan due to the breed. So Im not persuaded the 
investigation was ordered by the vet due to illness or even potential symptoms. In fact, S 
wasnt ill; Mrs V has told us that, thankfully, he wasnt diagnosed and didnt need further 
treatment following the investigation. On balance, I think Ss breed was at least the main 
reason for Mrs V requesting the scan. 
Ive also considered the letters provided by the vet. These dont appear to be from the same 
vet who completed the appointment. So they dont provide as much insight about the 
appointment itself. But they still provide valuable expert opinion. They explain the benefit to 
survival of detecting DCM at pre-clinical stage  which, in this context, would generally be 
taken to mean before the onset of symptoms. They also say that annual screening for DCM 
is recommended for Ss breed. This suggests further that, whilst no doubt beneficial for S, 
the investigation was preventative and/or routine as opposed to treatment for illness.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs V, who has clearly acted diligently and 
responsibly to care for S. But on balance, Im not persuaded that treatment was prescribed 
due to illness suffered by S  meaning her claim isnt covered.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman