DRN-2731419
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)s decision to 
decline a claim he made under his car insurance policy. Mr H is also unhappy with the 
service provided while he made his claim.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr H reported damage to his car which he said was caused by a pot hole. 
LV declined Mr Hs claim, which he was very unhappy about. He complained to LV about its 
decision and about the way it handled the claim.
In October 2020 LV didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. So Mr H brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator thought LV had acted reasonably. He found that it had arranged for an 
engineer to inspect Mr Hs car and hed found no evidence of impact damage. So in the 
engineers view, the damage was due to a mechanical failure. This wasnt covered under the 
policy Mr H held with LV.
LV said it would reconsider the claim if Mr H provide independent evidence from an engineer 
to show the damage was impact related. Our investigator thought this was a fair approach 
for LV to take. And so he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy says it will provide cover in the event of an insured event: such as impact or 
collision. It doesnt provide cover for damage caused by mechanical failure. This isnt an 
unusual term as it can be found in most  if not all motor insurance policies. 
I understand that Mr H says his car was running fine before he drove over a pot hole, but 
there were problems with driving the car afterwards. I think LVs approach to appoint an 
engineer to inspect Mr Hs car  to see if his claim met the conditions of the policy  was the 
correct approach to take. 
Having done so, the engineer didnt find any evidence of impact damage to the underside of 
Mr Hs car. He noted a loud noise coming from the automatic transmission which he 
considered to be due to transmission failure.
I understand Mr H says he was told in a call with LV that it may meet his claim. LV says it 
couldnt find a recording of the call to check and apologised if this was the case, but said this 
wasnt correct. 
Mr H feels that as LV apologised, it should at least refund his insurance premium to him  
but it should in any event settle his claim. But I think if LV did give Mr H incorrect information 
in a call, then the error is in failing to manage Mr Hs expectations. I think LV followed the 
correct process in line with the policy when it considered Mr Hs claim. And so I think LVs 
apology to Mr H was fair and proportionate if it had given Mr H incorrect information in a call. 
In April 2021 Mr H told us he recently called LV and asked for advice about pursuing the 
local Council or utilities company about the pot hole and was advised that LV would do that 
on his behalf. If Mr H is unhappy with the information given in this call, he will need to raise 
this as a new complaint. What I can say is that generally where there is evidence of impact 
damage caused by a third party  then an insurer may look to recover the costs of the claim 
from that third party. However, in this case LV hasnt been able to evidence impact damage 
to consider Mr Hs claim.
Mr H says he understands LV gave him the opportunity to obtain a report from an engineer 
to support his claim. But he says he believes the outcome would have most likely been the 
same  and he believes there was impact damage due to the pot hole but there isnt direct 
evidence of it. Mr H believes its possible that the transmission failure was a result of impact 
damage caused by the pot hole. 
Ive considered what Mr H says about appointing another engineer. But ultimately there isnt 
sufficient evidence to support his claim for impact related damage. I think LV has shown it 
properly investigated his claim. So I dont think LVs decision to decline his claim was 
unreasonable. I think LVs approach in offering to reconsider things if Mr H provided 
independent professional evidence to support his claim was fair.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. But taking everything into account, I 
dont think LV needs to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman