DRN-3764490
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc refused his request to transfer funds to a foreign 
bank. 
What happened
Earlier this year, Mr D attempted to transfer a large sum of money to a bank in another 
country. Santander initially accepted the instruction but later notified Mr D it couldnt 
complete the transfer. Santander explained there were issues with the relationship between 
the correspondent bank it uses and institutions involved that meant it couldnt complete the 
transfer. 
Mr D complained and Santander sent him a final response. Santander confirmed it couldnt 
process Mr Ds transfer to the bank in question. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ds complaint. Santander sent us its file 
submission and repeated its position. But Santander also offered Mr D £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill. The investigator didnt think Santander had acted unfairly by declining Mr Ds 
transfer. 
Mr D asked to appeal and said Santander had relied on the wrong section of its terms to 
reject his instruction. Mr D also gave a detailed explanation setting out why he feels 
Santander ought to have complied with his request and that it had treated him unfairly. As 
Mr D asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr D has sent us very detailed submissions setting out his understanding of how payments 
abroad are transferred and why he feels Santanders decision to decline his request was 
wrong. Mr D has repeatedly asked why the transfer cant be made. Santander has 
consistently answered that the routing of the payment cant be completed using its 
correspondent bank without manual input. And Santander has confirmed that it doesnt offer 
to complete transfers via its correspondent bank where manual processing is necessary.
I note everything Mr Ds told us about his understanding of the way funds can be sent. And I 
accept that Mr D feels it ought to be a simple matter for Santander to tell its correspondent 
bank to proceed and process the transfer with minimal manual intervention. However, 
Santander is free to decide what services it offers and how to process transfers. Santander 
has consistently explained it cant process Mr Ds transfer in line with its normal 
arrangements because of the way payments are routed via its correspondent bank. 
Santander has confirmed thats its final position and that it wont complete the transfer 
instruction. I know thats not the answer Mr D wants, but Im satisfied its a decision 
Santander is entitled to make. 
Mr Ds provided detailed analysis of what is and isnt an international payment. I understand 
Mr Ds view that Santander is obliged, under its terms, to comply. I take Mr Ds point that the 
section of the terms quoted by Santander only refers to International Payments, not those 
transferred within the EEA. But Santanders told us the situation in Mr Ds case is rare and 
not directly covered by its terms. 
Santander accepts it didnt know about the correspondent bank issues when Mr D initially 
instructed the transfer. It was only once the transfer routing showed manual input was 
required that Santander found it couldnt proceed and notified Mr D. I understand Mr D went 
back to Santander to query its processes and policies and complain, but the business has 
been consistent about not being able to process his transfer throughout. Im satisfied 
Santander made its position known so Mr D could consider other options without an 
unreasonable delay. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I havent been persuaded Santander treated him unfairly. 
Santander offered Mr D £100 as a gesture of goodwill. As I havent found evidence of a 
mistake or unfair treatment by Santander, Im not telling it to increase its offer or do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman