DRN-4042090
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage Miss A holds with Mars Capital Finance 
Limited trading as Mars Capital. The mortgage was taken out with a different lender, but is 
now held by Mars. The main thrust of Miss As complaint is:
interest is being levied on fees and charges added to the mortgage;
the rate of interest she has been charged historically has been too high; and
she isnt being allowed access to a lower interest rate going forward, leaving her a 
mortgage prisoner. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ill merely summarise them 
here.
Miss A experienced a period of mortgage arrears, which she has since repaid, but her 
account was debited with fees and charges to cover the additional costs of managing and 
recovering the arrears. Miss A is unhappy that these charges attract interest. 
Miss As mortgage started on a fixed rate that ran until September 2011, following which 
interest was charged at a specified margin of over the London inter-bank offered rate 
(LIBOR) from time to time.  That continued when Mars took the mortgage over.
Miss A wants a lower interest rate going forward, but Mars doesnt offer new interest rate 
deals. Miss A says this makes her a mortgage prisoner.
In 2021, Miss A started her complaint. Mars didnt uphold the complaint, and when it came to 
us, our investigator took the view that our power to consider the complaint was restricted to 
events since January 2014. When he looked at what had happened since then, he wasnt 
persuaded Mars had done anything wrong. Miss A asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
In a jurisdiction decision dated 21 March 2023, I confirmed that our remit to consider this 
complaint was limited by time constraints, but that the relevant cut-off date was 
January 2015, and not January 2014.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions on the three heads of complaint.
interest is being levied on fees and charges added to the mortgage
The provision for Mars to levy interest on fees and charges is contained in the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage contract. I take Miss As point that the mortgage was entered in 
to with a different lender and then transferred to Mars without recourse to her. But the right 
of a lender to transfer a mortgage to another lender on the same terms is also provided for in 
the mortgage contract.
Miss A says the provision to apply levy interest on fees and charges is an unfair contract 
term. Thats a legal test for a court to decide; my remit is slightly different in that I have to 
decide if Mars has treated Miss A unfairly. As Ive said, the term itself is part of the contract 
Mars inherited from the original lender. As a starting point, its not inherently unfair of Mars to 
implement the term. Mars isnt, for example, singling Miss A out for different treatment from 
other borrowers whose mortgages it received from the same former lender. 
Nor is Mars out of step in having a mortgage contract that allows for interest to be levied on 
fees and charges. Its standard practice for lenders across the whole sector to do so. Miss A 
might regard what is an industry-wide practice as generally unfair, but that would be 
something for the FCA to consider. Having such a term in a contract, and applying it 
consistently, doesnt of itself, amount to unfair treatment, which is the test I have to apply.
the rate of interest Miss A has been charged historically has been too high 
As I outlined in the summary, interest was charged on Miss As mortgage at a fixed rate until 
September 2011, after which it has been charged at a fixed margin over LIBOR. LIBOR 
came to an end after Mars issued its final response on this complaint; and a new rate was 
substituted in its place. Ill come back to that shortly.  
Miss A is understandably unhappy that it has not been possible to obtain a copy of the 
original mortgage offer, in order to establish, one way or another, whether the rates shes 
been charged over time are higher than the contract permits. 
It is regrettable that the original offer cant be located, but not entirely surprising, given the 
change of lender and the amount of time thats passed since the mortgage started. I also 
keep in mind that Miss A should have been provided with her own copy of the offer when 
she entered into the mortgage. Nevertheless, I have to decide a complaint on the basis of 
the evidence that is available, and not the evidence that isnt. 
Where that evidence is incomplete or missing altogether, I have to decide what is most likely 
to have happened on the balance of probabilities. Also, as Miss A is the person making the 
over-charging claim, its for her to present evidence to persuade me that she has been 
overcharged, not just for Mars to persuade me she hasnt. 
What I can see from the annual statements is that the rate charged over the years has been 
documented, so Miss A could see what it was. The margin over LIBOR has been consistent 
over that time, and the overall rate broadly competitive with other lenders standard variable 
rates.
To put it another way, for me to find in Miss As favour on this point, her case for 
overcharging having occurred has to be more likely than the alternative, not merely equally as likely. Thats broadly the same test the courts use in civil disputes, and in Miss As case, 
based on the available evidence, the more likely test hasnt been met. That is not to say that 
I doubt Miss A is expressing her genuine belief in good faith, but simply that theres nothing 
to corroborate that belief.
Miss A isnt being allowed access to a lower interest rate going forward, leaving her a 
mortgage prisoner
Mars hadnt offered Miss A a lower interest rate than the LIBOR-linked one before 2021 
because its a closed lender which had chosen not to offer new products. So again, Mars 
wasnt singling Miss A out for different treatment from other borrowers whose mortgages it 
received from the same former lender. And when it did alter her rate, it was due to external 
forces; that is, the ending of LIBOR. When that happened, Mars acted on necessity by 
putting in place an interest rate with a new reference point to replace the reference point that 
had ceased to exist. 
Thats broadly consistent with what FCA required of businesses in that situation, but beyond 
that, I cant make any findings on the fairness of the new rate as it post-dates this complaint. 
If Miss A wishes to complain that the interest rate that has replaced her former LIBOR-linked 
rate is unfair, she can do so, to Mars first, and then to us if shes not satisfied with what it 
says.
In the meantime, all that leaves for Mars to do is to ensure it places no obstacles of its own  
such as the imposition of an early repayment charge on redemption - in the way of her 
moving to another lender. Mars has done that. I appreciate everything Miss A has said about 
why she would find it immensely challenging to change to another lender, and Im not 
unsympathetic to that. But if Miss A is to be regarded as a mortgage prisoner, its because of 
her circumstances, not because of anything Mars has done or not done.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against Mars Capital Finance 
Limited trading as Mars Capital. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman