DRN-3295871
The complaint
Mr G complains about Lexham Insurance Consultants Limited (LIC) and the incorrect advice 
they provided when he was seeking information about his policy and the cover it offered 
before deciding to renew.
What happened
Mr G held a motorcycle policy that was sold by LIC. This policy was due to renew on 11 
September 2021.
On 28 August 2021, Mr G contacted LIC to query whether his current policy covered him for 
a trip to Turkey. He was told verbally, and by e-mail, that it did as it covered travel to any 
county within the European Union (EU). On 7 September, Mr G called LIC to confirm his 
renewal and again he questioned whether a trip to Turkey would be covered. The advisor 
direct Mr G to the terms of the policy but didnt explicitly state a trip to Turkey wouldnt be 
covered.
Mr G then reviewed the documents hed been provided and called LIC again on 9 
September. He explained Turkey wasnt listed as countries his policy covered and the 
advisor confirmed Turkey wasnt part of the EU. So, the policy wouldnt cover Mr G for this 
trip. To recognise the misinformation theyd provided previously, and the fact the policy 
wasnt due to renew until 11 September, LIC offered to cancel the renewal and refund Mr 
LIC the renewal premium hed paid. But Mr G didnt think this gave him enough time to find 
alternative cover, so he rejected this offer and instead raised a complaint.
Mr G was unhappy that LIC had told him a trip to Turkey would be covered when this was 
incorrect. And he felt this had led him to renewing his policy and needing to source 
alternative cover for his planned trip to Turkey. So, he wanted LIC to cover the costs of this 
additional cover.
LIC responded upholding Mr Gs complaint. They recognised their advisor had given Mr G 
the incorrect information as they thought Turkey was part of the EU when it wasnt. So, they 
apologised for this and explained feedback would be provided to the advisor in question. But 
they thought theyd acted fairly when offering to cancel the renewal and refund Mr G his 
premiums to recognise this error. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr 
G remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt dispute LIC had 
advised Mr G incorrectly in August when they stated a trip to Turkey would be covered. And 
they recognised the upset this wouldve caused Mr G when it became apparent this wasnt 
the case. But they thought LICs offer of cancelling the renewal and refunding the associated 
premium was a fair one and that it gave Mr G enough time to source alternative cover. So, 
they didnt think LIC needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree. He maintained his opinion that he didnt have enough time to source 
alternative cover before the renewal took place and so, he thought LIC should cover any 
additional costs he incurred for the trip to Turkey. As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I recognise he made a 
concerted effort to ensure the policy sold by LIC covered his planned trip to Turkey before 
agreeing to the renewal. And I dont dispute that Mr Gs initial decision to renew was based 
on the incorrect information he was given. So, I can understand why Mr G would be unhappy 
about this and believe LIC are responsible for additional costs he will need to incur to travel 
to Turkey as planned.
LIC have accepted their advisor told Mr G hed be covered on the basis that Turkey was part 
of the EU. And theyve accepted this information was wrong, as Turkey arent. So, I dont 
intend to discuss this further.
Instead, Ive focused on the main disputed between Mr G and LIC, which is what LIC should 
reasonably do to put things right.
Mr G thinks LIC should cover the costs of any additional cover he takes out to pay for his trip 
to Turkey. But for me to say LIC should do this, Id need to be satisfied that LICs error 
meant Mr G had no way of sourcing alternative cover before his renewal took place. And that 
Mr G had no way of cancelling the renewed policy or recovering the renewal premiums he 
paid. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I can see at midday on 9 September, LIC offered Mr G the option of cancelling the renewal 
before it took effect and refunding him the renewal premium he paid. This offer was made to 
recognise the error they made. This would then allow Mr G to seek alternative cover, that 
included travel to Turkey, before his existing policy elapsed at 23.59 on 10 September the 
following day.
Mr G doesnt dispute this offer was made but doesnt think the time he was given enough 
time to source alternative cover and so, felt forced to continue with the renewal. But I dont 
agree. I think at this point, Mr G was aware the policy due to renew didnt offer him the cover 
he was looking for. So, when LIC gave him the opportunity to seek more suitable cover, I 
wouldve expected him to have done so if he wanted to prevent further costs when travelling 
to Turkey.
I think LIC providing Mr G with more than 24 hours to search for this cover was a fair amount 
of time, considering the availability of online comparison websites which provide several 
quotes from different insurers almost instantly. While I recognise it may have been 
inconvenient for Mr G to have searched for alternative cover, I dont think this means LIC 
should cover any costs Mr G will incur due to his decision not to search for this. I think the 
responsibility fell with Mr G to find an alternative quote if he wasnt satisfied with the level of 
cover his existing policy provided and it was his own decision not to do. 
Because, I think LICs apology, coupled with the option for Mr G to cancel the policy before 
the renewal took effect and receive a refund for any renewal premiums already paid, is a fair one in this situation. And so, I dont think LIC need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr G was hoping for. And I recognise this will leave Mr G 
needing to pay for additional cover if he does travel to Turkey. But as Ive explained, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to say LIC should cover the costs of this. And as LIC are the 
broker of the policy, not the underwriter, they arent able to change the level of cover his 
renewed policy provides.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Lexham Insurance 
Consultants Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman