DRN-2037374
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that adverse information about his loan account with Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) is showing on his credit file.
What happened
Mr A makes monthly payments towards his loan account with Clydesdale, which must be 
paid on or before the 30th of each month.
Mr A had a direct debit in place to make payments on the 30th, but this was returned unpaid 
after an attempted collection on 30 November 2018. Mr A made up the payment by card on 
14 December. That months direct debit was also returned unpaid, which Mr A again made 
up by card payment on 7 January 2019. And the same thing happened on 30 January, with 
Mr A making up the payment by card on 8 February.
Clydesdale has reported these as late payments to credit reference agencies, which Mr A 
doesnt think is fair. He says the direct debit had failed because his bank had blocked his 
account. But Clydesdale says it has a legal obligation to report factual information to credit 
reference agencies  and as the payments hadnt been received within the contracted 
period, they were correctly marked as late. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint, but she didnt think Clydesdale had 
done anything wrong. She found that the payments hadnt been made on time, and thought 
this was accurately reflected on Mr As credit file. And while Mr A had said this all stemmed 
from an error by his bank, there was nothing from them to support that  and so she didnt 
think Clydesdale ought to amend the credit file. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view, noting in particular that his bank hadnt dealt with 
the account issues as quickly as it ought to have done. And so with no resolution, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached largely the same conclusions as our investigator and for much 
the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, its important to reiterate that lenders are obliged to share information about how their 
customers manage their borrowing with credit reference agencies. When doing so, they 
must ensure that the information is fair and accurate. Clydesdale sets out in its loan 
agreement that it will share such information with credit reference agencies  and so Mr A 
wouldve accepted these terms when entering into the agreement.  
I dont think theres any dispute that the payments in question here (the three that fell due in 
the period November 2018 to January 2019) were made late. They were due by the end of 
each month but in each case were made at least several days late. And so I think its fair and 
accurate to describe them as late, and for them to be reported as such on Mr As credit file.
I understand that Mr A doesnt think its fair for Clydesdale to report the late payments as he 
believes they came about due to problems with his bank account. But theres nothing to 
evidence that those problems were down to the error of Mr As bank or any other third party. 
It remained Mr As responsibility to ensure payments were made to Clydesdale on time. And 
Mr A was aware of the restrictions on his bank account  so he ought reasonably to have 
also been aware of the need to make alternative arrangements for his other commitments, 
such as the loan repayments at issue here. So I think the late payments recorded on Mr As 
credit file are fair and accurate.
I should stress also that here I am only able to consider Clydesdales actions  and not those 
of Mr As bank. I know he thinks his bank blocked the account for longer than necessary, 
and that this is relevant to what happened with his Clydesdale loan. But the actions of his 
bank are rightly the subject of a separate complaint, also under review by our Service. So if 
his banks actions are responsible for issues with the payment of his Clydesdale loan, that 
ought rightly to be addressed within the complaint about his bank and not here.
So having taken everything into account, I dont think that Clydesdale acted incorrectly or 
unfairly in reporting the late payments to Mr As loan account to credit reference agencies.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman