DRN-1319940
 
The complaint
Mr G and Miss C complain that Countrywide Principal Services Limited mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr G and Miss C in 2007, in connection 
with a mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr G and Miss C if they couldnt work 
because of unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr G and Miss C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr G and Miss Cs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Countrywide gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mr G and Miss Cs needs?
-           Did Countrywide give Mr G and Miss C the information they needed to decide 
whether to take out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
G and Miss C are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr G and Miss Cs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr G and Miss C say Countrywide told them they had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage 
they wanted. They say they were put under pressure to buy it and that they weren't given 
a proper choice. I've noted everything Mr G and Miss C have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr G and Miss C 
and Countrywide when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened 
many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.But I can see that Countrywide carried out an assessment of Mr G and Miss C's 
circumstances before it recommended the PPI to them. Countrywide's records show that Mr 
G and Miss C said it was very important to them that their mortgage repayments were met if 
they couldn't work because of involuntary unemployment. 
Following the assessment Countrywide wrote to Mr G and Miss C to confirm its 
recommendation to take the PPI. But there is nothing in the recommendation to suggest that 
buying the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage.
I've also noted that Mr G and Miss C's mortgage offer said:
'You are not required to buy any insurance through Countrywide Mortgage Services-Nat 
West Homeloans or Countrywide Mortgage Services.'
It went on to say that insurance that had to be taken as a condition of the mortgage was 
buildings insurance.
Without anything else to support what Mr G and Miss C have told me, I dont think I can 
fairly and reasonably say that Countrywide didnt make them aware that the PPI was 
optional.
Countrywide has accepted that it advised Mr G and Miss C to take out the policy and it 
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time. I say this because:
-           Mr G and Miss C were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the 
PPI terms and conditions.
-           Mr G and Miss C have said their family would've helped them if they became 
unemployed. But having the policy in place would've meant they didn't have to rely on their 
family, and would've provided a useful benefit if they weren't working. 
-           Mr G and Miss C werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely 
they needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-           I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr G and Miss C before they 
agreed to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr G 
and Miss C would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had 
been provided.
Its possible the information Countrywide gave Mr G and Miss C about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr G and Miss C werent affected by 
any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it 
unlikely Mr G and Miss C would have made a different decision if better information had 
been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman