DRN-2556181
The complaint
C, a limited company represented here by a director, Mr W, complains that Santander UK 
Plc have incorrectly closed its business current account. 
What happened
Mr W wanted to close Cs business savings account and transfer any remaining funds into 
the business current account (BCA). Mr W said he was extremely distressed by Santander 
incorrectly closing the BCA, which meant that C was unable to pay its suppliers or receive 
any payments into that account. He then experienced multiple service issues with Santander 
where they failed to keep promises in regard to call backs and by not logging Cs complaint. 
Santander also failed to tell Mr W that the BCA was re-opened. He wants compensation to 
resolve the matter. 
Santander say that they were incorrectly planning to close down the BCA. They hadnt 
closed the account, but they had placed a block which meant that C was unable to use the 
BCA for a period of two days. When Santander found out about their error, they reversed the 
process, transferred the funds from the business savings account into the BCA and correctly 
closed the business savings account. In recognition of the error, Santander paid £200 
compensation into the BCA for the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused. They 
also said that no formal complaint was logged, because Mr W had confirmed that he was 
happy by the steps Santander had taken to rectify the issue. In regard to the call backs, 
Santander say that the initial call made by the branch manager was unsuccessful, but 
another advisor did manage to speak to Mr W later that day. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator said 
that Santander had acted in a fair and reasonable manner within the circumstances of this 
complaint. The investigator felt that the amount of compensation that Santander paid into the 
BCA also seemed fair. 
Mr W isnt happy with the outcome made by the investigator. He says that his day rate is 
£420 plus expenses. And by the time Santander had resolved the issue, four days had 
passed. Mr W missed many appointments, and he wants Santander to give £500 in 
compensation. So, this matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen evidence that shows Santander have incorrectly placed a block into the BCA on 29 
April 2020 which was removed after two days. I was pleased to see that Santander have 
admitted their error. By reversing the process and correcting it, Santander put Cs account 
back in the position it would have been had the error not happened. So, I think this was the 
right thing for Santander to do. And I think that the the compensation of £200 fairly reflects 
any initial disruption that C may have experienced as a result of Santanders mistake. 
Ive noted the reasons for Mr W wanting more compensation, but I dont think this warrants 
further payment. I say this because Mr W has confirmed to me that he had explained the 
situation to Cs suppliers and had paid them at a later date. Mr W had also checked to see if 
any payments were due in and has confirmed that these were received at a later date. 
Mr W provided me with information about his role in C. He says that he was unable to work 
for four days because he was actively trying to resolve the issues with Santander, and he 
was expecting call-backs from them. Ive not seen any specific evidence that shows how C 
has been disadvantaged by this, or that Mr W took reasonable steps to limit or avoid any 
such loss. This could have included, for example, arranging with Santander to call him at a 
convenient time around his work patterns, having another director or employee deal with 
matters, or an alternative method of communication such as email.
In regard to the call backs Santander have said that the business manager did attempt a call 
on 1 May 2020. As it was unsuccessful another adviser called back on the same day and 
spoke to Mr W. Im unable to determine whether or not Mr W wanted at the time to raise a 
formal complaint regarding this matter, as Santander dont have a copy of the call recording. 
But in any event, Im satisfied that the £200 compensation that has already been paid is a 
fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances of this complaint. I wont be asking 
Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
To settle the complaint Santander UK Plc credited the BCA with £200. I think this is fair in all 
the circumstances. So, Im not going to ask Santander to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman