DRN-3387966
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBG) handled her 
home insurance claim following fire damage to her roof.
What happened
Mrs Hs roof was damaged by fire which spread from her neighbours house. She claimed 
under her buildings insurance policy and LBG accepted her claim. However, Mrs H 
complained to LBG about its workmanship and its decision to reject her claim for damage 
caused by water leaking through her conservatory roof.
LBG agreed to review the workmanship issues with Mrs H but it maintained its decision to 
decline her claim for the conservatory roof. LBG said the damage was caused by wear and 
tear and it wasnt a direct result of the insured event.
Mrs H complained that shed incurred financial loss, which LBG hadnt reimbursed, and she 
wanted assurance of the structural quality of repairs.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint and said LBG should reimburse the additional 
financial losses with interest, provide assurance that the roof was structurally sound and 
investigate the damp issues.
Mrs H didnt agree. While she accepted the outcome regarding the financial losses, she 
didnt think LBG was meeting its responsibilities. She didnt think it was fair that she should 
have to chase reimbursement of her excess from the neighbours insurer; she complained 
that shed been without heating and hot water during repairs, and she wanted a full structural 
guarantee for the whole house. Further, Mrs H didnt agree that the conservatory damage 
was due to wear and tear and asked for the issue to be reconsidered.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. However, while I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to her, I wont be asking LBG to do any more than our investigator proposed. 
Ill explain why.
Conservatory  water ingress
Mrs H is unhappy that LBG hasnt accepted her claim for the conservatory roof, which 
caused damage inside her home. She said the water entered her conservatory when there 
was no roof on the main part of the house because of the fire. Mrs H completed repairs and 
asked LBG to cover the repair costs and complete the redecoration. LBG declined saying 
the damage to the conservatory roof was due to wear and tear.
Photos available to me show water dripping through the conservatory roof. Mrs H also has a 
video of the water entering her home. Although I havent seen that video, theres no dispute 
that water came through the conservatory roof and damaged the interior decoration. So, Ive 
looked at the expert reports prepared after each of the three inspections carried out by 
LBGs agents to understand why LBG declined this part of the claim. All three reports say 
the water ingress was caused by the inability of the conservatory guttering to handle the 
volume of rainwater coming from the main roof as well as the glass roof. While Mrs H says 
there were no problems in the past, the reports confirm that the conservatory gutters were 
blocked. From this, LBGs experts concluded that the gutters hadnt been maintained and it 
declined Mrs Hs claim relying on the wear and tear exclusion. 
I understand Mrs H thinks the water damaged her conservatory following damage to the 
house roof. However, I havent seen anything in the evidence to explain why that would be 
the case  a well-maintained conservatory roof should be able to withstand rainwater 
running from the main roof. Nor have I seen any evidence of the repairs Mrs H is asking LBG 
to reimburse which mightve provided some further insight. In the absence of any clear 
evidence to the contrary, Im persuaded that LBGs three expert reports present a 
reasonable argument that the gutters failed due to wear and tear. As wear and tear is not 
covered under Mrs Hs policy, Im satisfied LBG reasonably declined her claim for repairs 
and redecoration of the conservatory.
Damp
Mrs H complained there was damp in her home which only started after the fire damaged 
her roof. 
Repairs didnt start to the neighbouring house until around eight months after Mrs Hs repairs 
were completed. She says that during that time, water came through the neighbours roof 
and caused the party wall to become damp.
LBG assessed the damp party wall and found staining and mould growth. But it also found 
other walls had high moisture readings. LBG accepted that the party wall couldve been 
affected by the neighbouring propertys state of disrepair, but it couldnt be sure that there 
wasnt an inherent damp issue.
Because of the uncertainty, LBG said it would arrange an investigation into whether the 
neighbours damaged roof was allowing water ingress, and in turn causing damp walls in 
Mrs Hs property.
The evidence doesnt persuade me that the true cause of the damp is known, so I cant fairly 
say LBG should or shouldnt carry out repairs. However, LBG has agreed to look into the 
cause, and I think thats a reasonable offer. I see no reason to ask it to do anything further 
up to this point. Once the results are known, that will be a new matter for Mrs H and LBG to 
discuss. 
Heating and hot water
Mrs H complained that she didnt have any hot water or heating for four months during 
repairs. LBG acknowledged that, but first it needed to replace Mrs Hs boiler. The work was 
delayed because:
it needed to test for asbestos before starting work;
the flue needed to be extended;
Mrs H asked LBG not to visit due to family illness, and
appointments were limited due to the national lockdown.
The option of alternative accommodation was available to Mrs H, which she declined. Having considered these points, I cant fairly say that LBG did anything wrong. While I 
understand the time without heating and hot water may have been uncomfortable for Mrs H, 
I cant see any evidence to indicate that the delays restoring heating and hot water were 
caused by LBG. It would be unfair to hold LBG responsible for rescheduled appointments 
due to Mrs Hs family illness, or for limited availability of appointments during the national 
restrictions in place at that time. I note LBG was aware that Mrs H had essential facilities 
available to her, including alternative heating, so I dont think the evidence suggests it left 
her in a more vulnerable position. I wont be asking LBG to do anything more here.
Temporary repairs
LBG fitted temporary roof coverings to protect Mrs Hs home, but one of them was blown 
from the roof. She complained that water was getting into her home. LBG replaced the roof 
coverings, and then it installed a tin roof to provide greater temporary protection until a 
permanent repair could be done. But Mrs H didnt think it was reasonable for LBG to say it 
couldnt attend sooner because of covid restrictions. Without knowing the extent of work 
needed, I dont think its fair to say LBG shouldve attended sooner to effect a better repair 
while national restrictions were in place. 
I note that LBG offered Mrs H alternative accommodation at the start of her claim so she 
could minimise disruption to herself and family while her home didnt have a permanent roof, 
but she turned it down for personal reasons. Given the unusual circumstances with the 
lockdown, and Mrs Hs refusal to move to alternative accommodation, Im satisfied LBG 
responded fairly and reasonably to Mrs Hs complaint. It offered alternatives, but Mrs H 
refused and I wouldnt expect it to keep repeating the offer. If Mrs H changed her mind about 
the alternative accommodation later on, she wouldve needed to let LBG know. So I dont 
think LBG fell short in its handling of this part of the complaint. 
Financial loss
Mrs H said she paid to have her satellite dish refitted but LBG didnt reimburse the cost. She 
also said she paid more for heating because she used her electric fire when her boiler wasn't 
working. Having considered these costs, Im satisfied that they are additional financial losses 
incurred as a direct result of the fire damage claim. In the circumstances I think its 
reasonable for LBG to reimburse Mrs H for the heating costs over and above that which 
shed normally pay using her boiler heating.  LBG should also reimburse the cost of the 
satellite dish refit on receipt of evidence from Mrs H. As the costs should already have been 
considered, I think its fair for LBG to pay 8% simple interest per year on these additional 
costs from the day Mrs H incurred them to the date of settlement.
Claim handling
Mrs H says the overall claim caused stress and affected her health, although she hasnt 
made reference to any specific service shortfall. 
Having considered the evidence, I havent identified anything which persuades me LBG 
failed to handle the claim reasonably. I can understand that the nature of the claim itself was 
upsetting, and it will undoubtedly have caused Mrs H some distress. But I can only consider 
the impact on Mrs H of a service shortfall resulting from LBGs actions. As I havent seen any 
evidence of a service shortfall, and LBG isnt responsible for the fact that the claim was 
necessary in the first place, I see no reason to ask LBG to do anything here.
Missed appointments
Mrs H said builders failed to turn up on occasions and she didnt think Covid restriction was 
a reason not to attend to external work. An occasional rescheduled appointment isnt 
unreasonable during works of this nature, and as I mentioned earlier, LBG didnt attend on 
one occasion because of illness with a member of Mrs Hs family. But in the absence of any evidence providing details of when LBG didnt attend, I cant reasonably say it did anything 
wrong.
Structural report
Mrs H asked for a full structural guarantee for her property. Id only expect LBG to provide a 
structural guarantee for the work it did, so I wont be asking it to do any more than provide a 
structural guarantee for the roof repairs.
Excess
Mrs H wants her excess payment returned. Its understandable that Mrs H is frustrated that 
she incurred costs through no fault of her own, but LBG is only responsible for covering the 
costs of the insured loss. I know LBG tried, unsuccessfully, to recover the excess and some 
of the costs from the responsible third party. It is now up to Mrs H to pursue this with the 
third party as the excess is not an insured loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited must:
on receipt of evidence, reimburse Mrs H for the heating costs over and above that 
which shed normally pay using her boiler heating;  
reimburse the cost of the satellite dish refit on receipt of evidence from Mrs H; 
as the costs should already have been considered, pay 8% simple interest* per year 
on these additional costs from the day Mrs H incurred them to the date of settlement, 
and
provide a structural guarantee for the roof repairs Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited completed.
*If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman