DRN-3502715
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Santander UK Plcs (Santanders) decision to reject a claim she 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mrs C has, at times, been represented by her husband but for ease, and because Mrs C 
made the payment on her credit card that qualified her to make this section 75 claim, Ill refer 
only to Mrs C in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs C, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or in whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Was there a breach of contract?
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, that the goods should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied and that the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The evidence suggests there was a leak on the conservatory roof. I say that because the 
suppliers insurer accepted that was the case and provided £2,000 in settlement of the claim. 
The independent report also suggests there were faults with the construction of the roof as 
the inspector explained, amongst other points, that the muntin bars were ill fitting, flashing 
wasnt adequately fitted, and there was a need for a reinforcement bar. It also suggested 
there was an unacceptable gap between the bifold door and its frame.
So, I think there was a breach of contract as the goods were not of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair 
the goods. I can see that there was an agreement to do so in the spring of 2021. 
But those repairs havent taken place as Mrs C has explained they have sold adjacent land 
for development and that meant modifications were necessary to the conservatory. Shes 
explained that those modifications effectively mean the conservatory has been replaced 
and all issues are fixed.
Mrs C asserts that the price she obtained for the adjacent land has been impacted by the 
cost of work necessary to rectify the conservatory. But shes not provided any evidence to 
support that assertion such as an invoice or written evidence of how the deal to sell land for 
construction has been put together. It wouldnt therefore be fair to suggest Santander need 
to compensate Mrs C for any loss as I cant see sufficient evidence a loss has been incurred.
Mrs C has explained that all the issues are now fixed so I dont think Santander have a 
responsibility to complete any repairs as theyre clearly no longer necessary.
Mrs C says the £2,000 insurance pay-out wasnt enough to cover the costs she incurred due 
to the leaking roof. Shes suggested there were additional costs but hasnt been able to 
provide evidence of that. I think its likely the insurance pay-out was in full and final 
settlement and that in those circumstances it wouldnt be fair to suggest Santander were 
unreasonable when refusing to compensate Mrs C further. But, even if Im wrong about that, 
Im not persuaded by the evidence Mrs C has provided that she has had to pay more to 
replace goods as a result of the water damage she says was incurred. I say that because 
the evidence of cash withdrawal she has provided isnt evidence that the cash was used to 
fund replacement items as Ive not seen receipts for those items. Im also not persuaded that 
evidence of cheque payments is evidence of cheque payment to resolve issues caused by 
the leak. The cheques referred to are for the same value as payments that were made to the 
supplier to fund the conservatory, they were also raised on, or around the time, I would 
expect payments to be made towards the conservatory. I think its likely that the cheques 
were therefore for the initial funding of the project and that they do not relate to subsequent 
purchases for replacement of water damaged items. 
It is clear, however, that Mrs C had to pay for an independent inspection to support her 
argument there were faults with the conservatory. I dont think she would have needed to do 
that if the conservatory had been of satisfactory quality and Santander should therefore 
refund the £480 (inclusive of VAT) the report cost her. Theyll need to add 8% simple interest 
to that refund as Mrs C has been deprived of the money.
Putting things right
Santander should refund the cost of the independent inspection.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Santander UK Plc to 
refund the £480 (inclusive of VAT) that Mrs C paid for her independent inspection. They 
should add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment (29 March 
2021) until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman