DRN-3545860
The complaint
Ms B complains about poor advice given to her by Touchstone Corporate Limited relating to 
two bridging loans.
What happened
Ms B had taken out a £560,000 buy to let mortgage in 2015, with a five-year term. In late 
2017 Ms B took mortgage advice from Touchstone. In April 2018 Ms B took out a bridging 
loan to repay the buy to let mortgage. Ms B was living in the property (in breach of the terms 
of the buy to let mortgage) and Touchstone recommended she take out a bridging loan while 
she sold the property.
The parties to this complaint strongly contest what happened and the events that led to Ms B 
taking out the bridging loan.
Ms B says Touchstone contacted her. She says it scared her into refinancing by saying she 
was in breach of the terms of her mortgage by living in the property and implying the lender 
was about to take action.
Touchstone says it was Ms B that contacted it in 2017 as she was concerned about being in 
breach of the terms of her mortgage after moving back into the property. Touchstone says it 
recommended a bridging loan that suited Ms Bs aims and requirements.
At that time, Ms B wasnt working or at least wasnt earning enough to pass affordability tests 
for a regular mortgage. However, she had funds to cover her day to day living expenses for 
several years. According to the fact find provided by Touchstone, Ms B told it she had about 
£130,000 in the bank which would cover her costs until the property was sold. The fact find 
says the interest on the existing buy to let mortgage, which was calculated partly on an 
interest rate and partly on a house price index, was rolled up.
Touchstone recommended a bridging loan which Ms B took out in April 2018. Ms B says she 
didnt know this was a bridging loan with a 12-month term, a high fee and high rate of 
interest. Ms B says she was unable to sell the property within the 12-month term due to the 
recent property crash. Touchstone recommended a second bridging loan. Ms B sold the 
property in October 2019.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties. In summary, I didnt think it was good advice to 
recommend that Ms B take out expensive bridge finance. I said it would have been better 
advice to contact the buy to let lender and ask for a grace period to sell the property. I said 
Touchstone should pay compensation to Ms B to put her back into the position she would 
have been in had she stayed with her previous lender until the property was sold.
Touchstone didnt agree with my provisional decision. Ms B agreed with my provisional 
outcome but asked for more compensation. Both parties sent further comments and 
evidence after my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has told us she feels she was misled by the broker when she took out a mortgage in 
2015. Ms B says the person that contacted her in 2017 (who Ill call Mr G) was, or worked 
with, the broker that recommended the mortgage in 2015. Mr G joined Touchstone in May 
2017. Its Mr Gs involvement with both the mortgage taken out in 2015 and the advice given 
by Touchstone between 2017 to 2019 that has led to some of Ms Bs concerns.
The parties dispute what happened before Ms B took mortgage advice from Touchstone in 
September 2017. While I appreciate the strong feelings here, I must be clear about what Im 
looking into. Based on the available evidence, Touchstone wasnt involved when Ms B took 
out a mortgage in 2015 and so wasnt responsible for that advice and recommendation. Its 
Ms Bs complaint about the advice given by Touchstone from about September 2017 
through 2019 that Im considering here.
Ms B says its significant that it was Touchstone that contacted her in 2017 (something that 
Touchstone disputes). I understand the points Ms B makes, and that she feels strongly 
about this. But ultimately, I dont need to make findings about who first contacted who, as the 
outcome of this complaint wouldnt change either way. 
Ms B says the fact find and recommendation letter provided by Touchstone are factually 
incorrect (including about whether she ever moved out of the property, whether she was 
employed, whether she wanted to sell the property and whether the buy to let lender was 
aware she was living in the property and about to take action). I understand Ms B is 
concerned that Touchstone recorded incorrect information about her circumstances. But I 
dont need to make findings about this in order to reach a fair decision about this complaint. 
Thats because Touchstone carried out a fact find and recorded information about Ms B and 
her circumstances in order to make a suitable recommendation. For the reasons set out 
below, based on the information Touchstone itself recorded I dont think it was good advice 
to recommend that she refinance with a bridging loan. 
Both parties have sent further comments and evidence since my provisional decision. We 
offer an informal dispute resolution service. In keeping with this, while Ive read and 
considered what both parties have said, I wont respond to each point made. I should say 
that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
What I think about Touchstones recommendation
Touchstone recommended a bridging loan in late 2017 to repay Ms Bs existing buy to let 
mortgage. Touchstone applied to the lender on Ms Bs behalf. However, this lender declined 
to lend as it was concerned that the sale of the property could be delayed by planning issues 
and its valuation suggested the property was worth less than Ms B was happy to market the 
property for.
Touchstone recommended a bridging loan with another lender and made an application on 
Ms Bs behalf. The lender issued an offer in January 2018. While at this point Mr G was 
working with Touchstone he didnt make the recommendation. However, he was in contact 
with Ms B about the loan and was involved in the application process.Touchstone sent a recommendation letter. This said that, due to various problems, Ms B had 
decided not to complete development works to the property. Ms B had moved back into the 
property and intended to sell it after completing minor works and obtaining planning consent, 
which she believed would add about £300,000 to the property value regardless of whether 
the work was completed. She couldnt apply for a standard mortgage as she wasnt working. 
She had funds left from the 2015 mortgage and wasnt in financial difficulty. Touchstones 
recommendation letter said Ms Bs aims were:
To obtain a bridging loan for no more than 12 months while she sold the property.
Roll up the interest or deduct it from the loan to keep the finance affordable.
Repay her existing loan as soon as possible as it didnt allow her to live in the property.
I think the bridging loan recommended by Touchstone met these aims. However, Im not 
persuaded it was good advice to recommend that Ms B refinance with expensive bridge 
finance.
Touchstone says Ms B had three options: remain with her buy to let lender, despite being in 
breach of the loan terms; take out a regulated residential mortgage; or take out bridge 
finance.
Touchstone says Ms B wouldnt have been able to take out a regulated residential mortgage 
as she didnt have regular income. I think thats likely right. But I need to keep in mind here 
that when Ms B took advice from Touchstone she said her intention was to sell the property. 
She intended to move to another part of the country with the equity from the sale. The fact 
find said she intended to market the property for sale from October 2017. She marketed it for 
sale immediately after taking out the bridging loan. Ms B wasnt looking for a residential 
mortgage. What she needed was time to sell the property.
Id remind Touchstone that the rules of mortgage regulation say that where it gives advice to 
enter into a regulated mortgage contract it must take reasonable steps to ensure its 
recommendation is suitable. If there isnt a suitable product available, it must not give advice.
Most likely Ms B couldnt take out a residential mortgage. And she was in breach of the 
terms of her buy to let mortgage. But this doesnt automatically mean that the bridge loan 
was suitable. I dont agree with Touchstone that these were her only three options.
The bridge finance was short term and expensive. I think there was a better option. And that 
was to ask Ms Bs existing lender for a grace period to allow her time to market the property 
for sale. Touchstone questioned whether the lender would have allowed this. So we asked 
the lender what it would have done.
First, the lender said that it was not made aware that Ms B was living at the property. It said 
if it had been aware, an immediate repayment event would have been invoked and a 
demand letter issued.
Second, the lender said it would have considered a request for time to market the property 
for sale if its solicitor advised that was the best course of action. It said this would have been 
subject to a clear timeline and a requirement that the estate agent update it directly.
The lender said how long it would allow for marketing to take place would be dependent on 
circumstances, and whether the property had already been on the market. It said conditions 
would have been attached. It would need to be satisfied that the property was marketed at 
the appropriate value, and that the customer was making a genuine effort to agree the sale. 
It said it would require authority to discuss the ongoing sale directly with the selling agent, and would require price reviews at set intervals. It said the length of the interval would be 
dependent on the value and nature of the security property. It said it would also require that 
the property be publicly marketed.
Third, the lender said if the request for a grace period was declined, or approved and a sale 
wasnt agreed within the allotted time, it would proceed with repossession action in line with 
the pre-action protocol requirements.
The relevant part of the pre-action protocol says If a borrower can demonstrate that 
reasonable steps have been or will be taken to market the property at an appropriate price in 
accordance with reasonable professional advice, the lender must consider postponing 
starting a possession claim to allow the borrower a realistic period of time to sell the 
property. There are also provisions about the amount of arrears, but these arent relevant 
here as the interest was rolled up. What the lender has said here is consistent with what 
wed expect, especially as the property had been Ms Bs home before she took out the buy 
to let mortgage.
If the lender had been asked to allow time for Ms B to sell the property and it had refused, or 
Ms B hadnt accepted the conditions it attached, I might look at this matter differently. But 
that wasnt the case.
Touchstone continues to maintain that it spoke to Ms Bs previous lender at length about the 
issues, in particular that Ms B was living at the property. Touchstone said the lender took no 
action only because it told the lender that the buy to let loan was being refinanced. It said it 
couldnt have asked for the lender for a grace period for Ms B to sell the property due to 
concerns about encouraging fraud or breaching regulatory obligations. 
I dont agree that asking the lender to allow time for Ms B to sell the property would, as 
Touchstone suggests, encourage mortgage fraud. Im not suggesting it should have advised 
Ms B to withhold information from, or mislead, the lender. Just the opposite. I think, given its 
duty to pay due regard to Ms Bs interests and treat her fairly, Touchstone should have 
explained the situation to the lender and asked if it would allow Ms B time to sell the property 
herself. 
While Touchstone provided two emails, between Mr G and the lender, its unclear what the 
emails referred to. Touchstone hasnt provided credible evidence of its contact with the 
lender about the refinancing or that this was the basis on which the lender held recovery 
action. Given Touchstones stated concerns about fraud or regulatory breaches, Id expect it 
to have kept records of this  and yet it cant provide such records. If the lender agreed to 
hold enforcement action while the loan was refinanced, Id expect the lender to have some 
record of this. In fact, the lender told us that it wasnt aware that Ms B was living in the 
property. Most likely then, the lender took no action because it didnt know that Ms B was 
living at the property.
Touchstone says it couldnt have advised Ms B to stay with her previous lender when she 
was in breach of the terms of the buy to let mortgage by living in the property. And yet the 
effect of its advice from late 2017 was that Ms B lived in the property in breach of the buy to 
let mortgage terms and conditions for seven months while the bridge finance was put in 
place. 
During this time, Ms B says she was told by Touchstone that the lender had agreed not to 
take action only because she was refinancing. This is consistent with what Touchstone told 
us, that the lender didnt take action because it had told it that Ms B was in the process of 
refinancing. Ms B says Touchstone frightened her into marketing the property for sale, rather 
than this being her intention before receiving advice from Touchstone. Either way this doesnt change my view that Touchstones recommendation wasnt fair or reasonable: if it 
wasnt Ms Bs intention to sell the property, then a bridging loan, which had to be repaid by 
the sale of the property, wasnt suitable. If it was Ms Bs intention to sell then I think 
Touchstone should have first asked her existing lender to allow her time to do this.
I think it would have been better financially for Ms B and fairer to both Ms B and the buy to 
let lender if Touchstone had contacted the lender and asked if it would allow Ms B time to 
sell the property. I dont think it was fair for Touchstone to recommend expensive bridging 
finance without first asking the lender if it would allow Ms B time to sell the property. 
Touchstone says the buy to let mortgage was itself expensive. It says it couldnt calculate 
the cost of the buy to let mortgage as it uses a formula based on a house price index. It 
seems Touchstone didnt (or couldnt) explain to Ms B the relative costs of staying with the 
previous lender compared to the bridging loan. 
Touchstone says Ms B was convinced the increase in the property value would outweigh 
any additional costs of the bridging loan. I cant see how Ms B could have made this 
comparison without knowing the relative cost of the bridging loan  something Touchstone 
says it couldnt provide. And this doesnt take account of whether staying with her previous 
lender would have been cheaper, nor does it remove Touchstones responsibility to make a 
recommendation that is suitable.
As it turned out, it took Ms B until late October 2019 to sell the property. It seems unlikely her 
previous lender would have allowed her this much time to sell the property. Of course, none 
of the parties knew in late 2017 that it would take this long to sell the property. If (as seems 
likely) the lender had specified a shorter period Ms B would have had to plan to meet its 
deadline, and consider her options (such as reducing the purchase price) if this proved 
difficult. Ultimately, if Ms B hadnt sold the property within the time frame set by the lender, it 
might have taken action for possession. However, given the cost of the bridging loans, its 
likely this would still have been the cheaper option for Ms B.
I dont think it was good advice to recommend that Ms B take out expensive bridge finance. 
Touchstone should first have explored whether the lender would have allowed Ms B time to 
sell the property  especially as (according to Touchstones records) Ms B had told it she 
intended to market the property for sale. 
What would the previous lender have done if Touchstone had asked for a grace period?
Touchstone says it didnt ask if the lender would allow Ms B time to sell the property as this 
would have been unreasonable, unfair and irrational advice as the lender could still have 
taken action for possession. If so, Ms B might have needed to take different action  to sell 
the property more quickly or re-finance. But it seems unlikely that a lender would offer a 
grace period and then start action for possession before the end of the grace period.
Touchstone says theres no guarantee the lender would have offered a grace period. Thats 
true. The lender might have declined a request to give Ms B time to sell the property. It might 
have imposed a condition, such as regarding the asking price or marketing strategy, that 
wasnt acceptable to Ms B. 
However, the lender had enforcement and forbearance policies in place and has told us how 
it would have responded to such a request in 2017. It said if did take action it would follow 
the pre-action protocol  which says lenders must consider postponing starting a possession 
claim if the borrower is taking reasonable steps to sell the property themselves. The fact find 
says Ms B intended to market the property for sale by the end of October 2017, and that the property would be sold with or without the planning consents shed applied for. Based on 
this, I think its more likely than not that the lender would have offered a grace period. 
None of the parties would have known at that time it would take two years for the sale to 
complete. And I need to take into account that once the first bridging loan was in place Ms B 
had 12 months (until April 2019) to sell the property. She might not have felt the need, at 
least initially, to market the property at a competitive price, or to accept a lower offer. 
Ms B says Touchstone pressured her to reduce the sales price when she took out the 
second bridging loan. She provided copies of emails from Mr G at about the time the second 
bridging loan was taken out. These say in effect that the provider of the bridging loan wanted 
evidence of her marketing the property at a lower price through a large agent before it would 
extend the bridging loan. He suggested a need to take action to avoid repossession. Ms B 
did market the property at a lower price. I think this suggests she would have been open to 
marketing the property at a lower price if shed stayed with the buy to let lender and it had 
required this as a condition of a grace period. Touchstone has provided a calculation which 
shows the cost of the bridge finance as compared to staying with the buy to let lender. I think 
Ms B would likely have agreed to the conditions set out by the buy to lender if shed been 
given clear information about the cost of moving to the bridge finance.
Touchstone said the property wasnt sold within the 12-month term of the first bridging loan 
because Ms B was unrealistic about the asking price, and wasnt making genuine attempts 
to sell the property. But if Ms B didnt sell the property within any grace period offered by the 
buy to let lender it would have been for the lender to decide what action to take (if any). Its 
likely it would still have been cheaper for Ms B if the buy to let lender had taken the property 
into possession (as compared to the bridge finance).
I dont think it was good advice to recommend that Ms B take out expensive bridge finance. I 
think Touchstone should first have explored whether the lender would have allowed Ms B 
time to sell the property. Based on what the lender has told us and the available evidence, I 
think its likely the lender would have offered a grace period and Ms B would have accepted 
the conditions on which this was offered. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I asked Touchstone to calculate the cost to Ms B of taking out the 
bridging loans as compared to remaining with her previous lender until the property was 
sold. It calculated the additional cost as about £140,000. Ms B says this isnt enough.
Ms B provided her own calculation of the additional cost of the bridging loans, which totals 
about £250,000. Ms Bs calculation didnt deduct the cost of the buy to let mortgage. She 
says she should also be compensated for the cost of the buy to let mortgage. I must be clear 
that I am only looking at the advice given by Touchstone between late 2017 and 2019. 
Whether the buy to let mortgage taken out in 2015 was suitable is outside the scope of this 
complaint.
Ms B said the compensation calculation provided by Touchstone didnt include all of the 
fees. I also thought this, but Touchstone has said that some fees (its own brokers fee for the 
first loan, valuation fees and legal fees) were added to the loans and thereby included in the 
calculation. Having re-read its calculation and notes I think thats right. 
Both parties suggested the compensation should be adjusted to take account of the price at 
which Ms Bs property was sold. Ms B says the compensation should be increased by 
£345,000 because Touchstone pressured her into selling the property for less than it was 
worth. Touchstone says the compensation should be reduced as the property might have sold for less if it had been sold sooner, within a grace period offered by the buy to let lender 
and without planning consents.
I dont think its fair to require Touchstone to pay compensation for the possibility that Ms B 
sold the property for less than it was worth. Theres no guarantee the property would have 
sold for more if Ms B had marketed it for longer. The property was marketed for sale for 
about a year before Ms B says Touchstone told her to reduce the asking price. The property 
was sold in late 2019  about two years after Ms B first took advice from Touchstone. I dont 
think its reasonable to say this sale was rushed, I think this was enough time to market the 
property. 
I must also take into account here that it seems unlikely the buy to let lender would have 
offered a grace period of two years from the outset. More likely it would have offered a 
shorter period and any extension would have been at the lenders discretion. Ms B would still 
have been under pressure to sell the property. Ms B says if Touchstone hadnt (as she says) 
contacted her in late 2017 shed have had until mid-2020 (when the buy to let term expired) 
to sell the property. However, Ms B was living in the property in breach of the mortgage 
terms. The lender could have become aware of this and started recovery action at any point. 
And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to calculate the money award on the 
assumption that Ms B would have remained in the property contrary to the terms of her 
mortgage until 2020. 
I dont think I can fairly find the property would have sold for less if it had been sold sooner. 
Touchstone previously told us Ms Bs planning consent was granted in September 2017, 
with the decision issued in November 2017. It seems likely this would have been within any 
grace period offered by the buy to let lender. The offer of the bridging loan (issued in 
January 2018) says the property valuation was £1.6 million. Ms B hoped it would sell for 
more than this, and initially marketed it at a higher price. I dont know if she received offers 
during this time, which she declined hoping to achieve a higher price. The property sold for 
£1.45 million in late 2019. Given there was a valuation of £1.6 million, I dont think I can fairly 
and reasonably find that the property would have sold for less than the eventual sales price if 
it had been sold in early 2018. 
Ms B says Touchstone should have allowed her to move out and let the property, instead of 
pressuring her to refinance and then sell the property. I cant see that Touchstone could 
have stopped her from doing so. The fact find says Ms B told Touchstone she wanted to sell 
the property and move to another part of the country with the equity from the sale. Renting 
the property out wouldnt have allowed her to do this. While I agree that letting the property 
(so that Ms B was no longer in breach of the buy to let mortgage) was a possible option that 
could have been considered in late 2017, I think this was something that Ms B ought 
reasonably to have known she could do.
I dont think its reasonable to require Touchstone to write a letter of apology. I dont think a 
letter which it is required to write would feel genuine. Ms B can refer Touchstone and the 
way it handled this matter to the regulator if she believes its right to do so.  
I should explain that where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by 
a financial business of up to £160,000 plus any interest that I think is appropriate. I think that 
fair compensation should be calculated as set out below. If the amount produced by this 
calculation is more than £160,000 I can recommend that Touchstone pays Ms B the 
balance. However, this recommendation is not part of my determination or award. 
Touchstone doesnt have to do what I recommend. Ms B says I should disregard the £160,000 limit or apply it to each loan separately. However, 
this limit is set out in the rules that this service operates under  I simply have no power to 
set the limit aside.
I appreciate that Ms B feels higher compensation is fair. Its unlikely that Ms B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance (if the calculation above means the 
compensation exceeds our limit) or for additional compensation relating to the same subject 
matter. Ms B may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
my final decision.
I dont think it was good advice to recommend that Ms B take out expensive bridge finance. I 
think in the circumstances its fair and reasonable to require Touchstone to pay 
compensation to Ms B to put her back into the position she would have been in if she hadnt 
re-financed. Touchstone should:
1. Calculate the full cost of the bridging loans Ms B took out and the application that didnt 
go ahead in 2017, including its own broker fees, arrangement fees and other fees paid to 
the lenders, valuation fees, legal costs, admin costs, interest costs and any early 
repayment charges applied to the accounts.
2. Calculate what it would have cost Ms B to stay with her previous lender and repay the 
buy to let mortgage on the same day that she sold the property.
3. Deduct the result of step 2. from the result of step 1. If this is a positive amount 
Touchstone should pay this amount to Ms B with simple interest at 8% from the date she 
sold the property to the date of settlement*. If this is a negative amount, Touchstone 
wont need to pay compensation for Ms Bs financial loss.
Touchstone should provide the calculations for steps 1 to 3 to Ms B, making clear any 
assumptions it used when doing the calculations.
I also think Touchstone should pay compensation for the upset caused to Ms B. In 
considering what compensation would be fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account that 
when Touchstone gave the advice Ms B was in breach of her previous buy to let mortgage. 
Her options were limited to selling the property or refinancing  itself limited in that she didnt 
have enough income for a regular mortgage  or moving out and letting the property, 
bringing her back within the terms of the loan.
If Ms B hadnt refinanced (or moved out of the property and let it out) shed have had the 
stress of worrying that the lender might take action. The comments of the lender she applied 
to in late 2017 suggest Ms B might have been unrealistic about the amount she could sell 
the property for, delaying matters. And the term of the buy to let mortgage was due to expire 
in mid-2020 with a balance to pay. So at that point shed still have had to sell the property or 
refinance.
However, theres no evidence the buy to let lender was about to take action  in fact it was 
unaware that Ms B was living at the property. Had the lender been made aware, it was 
entitled to decide whether and how long to allow Ms B time to market the property herself.
However the bridging loans themselves were short term in nature. So Ms B still had the 
worry and stress of having to complete works and sell the property before the end of the 12- 
month term  in fact she had to take out the second bridging loan when this wasnt possible. 
And the costs involved with the bridging loan and the reduction of her equity would have 
added to this stress. I think, for the additional worry and stress caused by Touchstones 
advice to take out the bridging loan it should pay compensation of £500.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Touchstone Corporate Limited to pay 
compensation calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman