DRN-3631011
The complaint
Miss L complains that BUPA Insurance Limited mis-sold her private medical insurance 
policy.
What happened
Miss L had personal private medical insurance with BUPA which started in 2002. In 2022 
she contacted BUPA and said she was type 2 diabetic and was now showing signs of 
diabetic maculopathy so she wanted to claim for treatment under her policy.
BUPA said the policy excluded treatment and monitoring of chronic conditions, so diabetic 
maculopathy and anything else related to diabetes wasnt covered as it was a chronic 
condition.
Miss L complained that:
When she bought the policy over the phone she told BUPA she had type 2 diabetes 
and it hadnt told she wasnt covered for the condition. She said she wouldnt have 
bought the policy if shed known her diabetes was excluded. 
BUPA mis-sold the policy and she wants it to refund all her policy premiums from 
2002. She said she hadnt made any other claims on the policy and she would use 
the refunded premiums to pay for the private treatment she thought would be 
covered.
BUPA said that due to the time passed it didnt have a record of the policy sales call from 
2002. But it had sent the poilcy documents, which detailed the chronic conditions exclusion, 
to Miss L each year and told her to read them to make sure the policy still suited her needs. 
BUPA didnt accept it had mis-sold the policy and wouldnt refund the policy premiums. 
Our investigator said there was no evidence to support that BUPA mis-sold the policy and it  
fairly applied the policy terms in saying it would decline the claim.
Miss L disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said:
Her professional background meant she knew the importance of declaring 
information so she knew shed told BUPA she had diabetes when she bought the 
policy. Her recollection of what happened in the sales call was clear and BUPA 
couldnt produce evidence as to what was said.
She hadnt read the policy renewal documents at each renewal. BUPA asked if 
anything had changed and shed said no as shed told BUPA about her diabetes at 
the start of the policy. 
The policy wording was irrelevant as the policy was mis-sold.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA doesnt have a recording of the policy sales call from 2002. I think thats reasonable 
as the sale took place 20 years ago and insurers arent required to keep records for that 
long. I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say the policy was mis-sold only based on  
Miss Ls recollections of her discussion with BUPA in a call which happened 20 years ago, 
recollections are more likely than not to fade over time. So I cant reasonably conclude 
BUPA gave Miss L wrong information at that time.
I think the policy documents are relevant as they show what BUPA had told Miss L about 
what was and wasnt covered by the policy. The policy documents set out clearly that the 
policy only covered acute conditions and excludes chronic conditions, which is very common 
for private medical insurance policies. The policy defines what BUPA means by chronic 
conditions and Miss L doesnt dispute that her type 2 diabetes was ongoing and required 
regular monitoring, so it meets the policy definition of chronic condition. The policy is also 
clear theres no cover for complications from chronic conditions. 
Miss L renewed the policy every year. She says she didnt read the renewal paperwork. 
BUPAs sent us an example of the policy renewal letter which says Please read your 
enclosed membership certificate and membership guide to make sure your cover is still right 
for you. The renewal letter, which is only one and half pages long, also says in bold text 
Read your membership certificate and membership guide and renewal brochure.
Im satisfied that in those policy documents BUPA gave Miss L clear non-misleading 
information that a chronic condition wasnt covered and what it defined as a chronic 
condition. And at policy renewal time BUPA clearly told Miss L to read the policy documents 
to ensure the policy still met her needs. Miss L chose not to read the policy documents, that 
was her decision. I dont accept Miss Ls suggestion that she didnt need to read the policy 
documents as she thought shed already told BUPA about her diabetes.
Ive seen no evidence to support that the policy was mis-sold to Miss L. Ive no basis on 
which I can reasonably say BUPA must refund the policy premiums. Miss L says she hadnt 
made any other claim on the policy but that doesnt mean BUPA had to refund the 
premiums. Diabetes wasnt covered by the policy, as its a chronic condition which is 
excluded from cover, but Miss L was still covered for eligible conditions and treatment, as 
defined by the policy terms. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022. 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman