DRN-4070582
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by TenetConnect Limited (TCL) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his pension, so he approached TCL for advice around the same time as he wouldve 
received his Time to Choose letter. On 23 October 2017 Mr M met with TCL and it 
completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. 
Amongst other things this recorded that Mr M was 54 years old; he was married with one 
financially dependent child; he owned his own home, which had an outstanding interest-only 
mortgage of around £100,000, but it was anticipated this would be repaid before he reached 
60; he owned rental properties which provided an annual net income of £12,000; he had 
around £30,000 in savings; he had some credit card debt; 20% of his salary was being paid 
into his new workplace pension; and he wanted the option to retire at 60, although he was 
prepared to continue working until 61/62, on a total net income of £2,000 a month. TCL also 
carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be a score of 7 on a 
scale of 1-10.
On 26 October 2017, TCL issued a suitability report advising Mr M to transfer his BSPS 
benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds in a range of funds it deemed 
matched Mr Ms attitude to risk - although I note reference was also made to the current 
market conditions and uncertainty, so it was agreed that the investment allocation should
...start more cautiously over the next year or two. 
In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to provide 
Mr M with the option to retire at 60 and maximise his lifestyle; to provide flexibility and the 
ability to choose the level of income he took from his pension; to provide better death 
benefits; and the security of ongoing advice.
Mr M accepted the recommendation and sometime later, around £514,000 was transferred 
to his new personal pension plan and invested in line with the recommendation.
In 2021 Mr M complained about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr M said that he 
discovered he shouldve been asked a series of questions and a series of checks shouldve
been completed before he transferred. He said that, had he been asked these questions, his 
decision to transfer may have been different, so he wanted this investigating.
TCL didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary it said it believed the advice was suitable. It 
said by transferring, Mr M had a realistic prospect of achieving the necessary 4.74% annual 
growth required to generate his desired retirement income from age 60 to a point past his 
likely age of mortality. It said the performance of the recommended portfolio was such that
Mr M was on track to be able to take an equivalent income to his BSPS pension and be able 
to leave a residual fund to his beneficiaries (albeit it said that Mr Ms decision to take a tax-
free cash lump sum in 2018 meant that it might not now be on track.) It said if Mr M had 
retained his BSPS benefits, the income available would have been lower as the fund was 
destined to move to the PPF and there was no prospect of leaving a legacy. It said Mr M 
was told about the advantages and disadvantaged of transferring and given detailed risk 
warnings, so he was fully aware of the implications of the transfer. It said it was satisfied the 
advice was suitable as it met Mr Ms needs and objectives and that the relevant questions 
and checks were completed.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr M asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider his 
complaint. One of our investigators upheld the complaint and required TCL to pay 
compensation. In summary they said there was no justification for transferring from the 
BSPS, when the BSPS2, in conjunction with his property rentals and his new workplace 
pension, wouldve provided Mr M with the retirement income he required. They said there 
was no certainty that Mr M would retire early and there was no clear need for the additional 
death benefits. They said Mr M didnt need to take additional risk because a large proportion 
of his retirement income could have been provided by a secure guaranteed income  but 
having now transferred he is subject to investment risk that he had no need to take. 
The investigator also challenged the assessment of Mr Ms risk profile  they
questioned how someone recorded as having very limited investment experience came out 
as 7 on a risk scale of 1 to 10. But they repeated the point that Mr M had no need to
take any risk because he was on-track to meet his income needs in retirement. They said 
suitable advice was not to transfer and they thought Mr M wouldve subsequently transferred 
to the BSPS2, since this was the closest alternative to the benefits offered by the BSPS and 
because it would still allow the ability for Mr M to transfer out if needed in the future.
In response to the investigators opinion, TCL said that while it disagreed with the 
conclusions reached that the advice was unsuitable, it wanted to make an offer of 
compensation to settle the matter and it said it was willing to carry out a loss calculation.
Nevertheless, Mr M said that he wanted the matter to be decided by an Ombudsman, so the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TCL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, TCL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
TCL carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And I can see that TCL updated the analysis 
and based it on the benefits available to Mr M through the BSPS2 when they became 
available, which was the fair and reasonable thing to do given the timing of the advice.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.Mr M was 54 at the time of the advice and he indicated he ideally wanted to retire at 60. The 
critical yield required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 60 through the BSPS2 was set out in 
the updated TVAS report of 14 November 2017 and was 9.26% a year if he took a full 
pension. No figure was produced assuming Mr M took a lump sum and a reduced pension, 
which strikes me as somewhat odd given the advice paperwork recorded that Mr M wanted 
access to a cash lump sum at retirement. The critical yield to match the benefits available 
through the PPF at age 60 was quoted as 7.77% per year if Mr M took a full pension and 
6.85% per year if he took a lump sum and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.1% per year for five years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
7 out of 10 score for his attitude to risk (Ill talk more about this below) and also the term to 
retirement. In my view, there would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available 
to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme.
But here, the critical yield was 9.26% assuming Mr M took a full pension based on the 
BSPS2 benefits. If TCL had produced a figure based on a reduced pension, I think the 
critical yield wouldve been slightly lower than this. But I still think it wouldve been 
significantly higher than the discount rate and very close to, if not still above, the regulators 
upper projection rate. Given this I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than the BSPS2 at retirement, as a result of investing in line with an 
above average attitude to risk. In my view, Mr M wouldve needed to take an even greater 
level of risk to have even come close to achieving the level of returns required. Based on the 
critical yields if the scheme moved to the PPF, I dont think the position was very different 
here  at best I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits available was limited. 
I said Id talk more about Mr Ms attitude to risk. TCL assessed Mr M as willing to take an 
above average risk, categorising him as an investor with a risk score of 7 out of 10. But I 
have some concerns about whether this was the appropriate level of risk Mr M needed to 
take with his pension. I accept that Mr M had investment properties, so I think it is 
reasonable to conclude that he was prepared and understood the concept of risk. But TCLs 
risk descriptor described a typical investor in the risk level 7 category as being someone who 
generally has significant experience of investment... But I dont think that reasonably 
describes Mr M. His experience of investment was only in property  there is nothing 
recorded to indicate that he had experience of stock market-related investments, which I 
think it is reasonable to assume was the experience the risk descriptor was referring to.
TCL recorded in the advice paperwork that Mr Ms BSPS benefits were not core to meeting 
his retirement income needs. I think its likely that this view influenced TCLs assessment of 
Mr Ms willingness to accept investment risk. But I disagree with TCLs assessment here  I 
think Mr Ms BSPS benefits were core to his retirement provision. As I will explain later on, I 
think Mr Ms income needs could likely be met by retaining his DB scheme benefits  a 
guaranteed and escalating source of income, which I think wouldve been important to Mr M. 
Mr Ms other retirement income would predominantly come from his rental income  income 
that could not be guaranteed and so was at risk. His DC workplace pension was also 
investment-based. So, given this together with Mr Ms broader circumstances  the fact that he was 
approaching the tail-end of his working life and he still had a dependent child who would 
likely remain so for several more years -  it strikes me that Mr M did not need, and it was not 
appropriate for him, to take any investment risk with his pension benefits to achieve things. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as TCL 
indicated in its recommendation. There might be other considerations, which mean a transfer 
is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the key reasons TCL recommended the transfer was the ability for Mr M to choose 
the level of income he took from his pension, provide flexibility and give unlimited access to 
his pension pot.
But Im not persuaded that Mr M needed flexibility in retirement. And in any event, I dont 
think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to achieve flexibility, if thats 
what he ultimately required.
Mr M was 54 at the time of the advice. And while it is clear he was beginning to think about 
his retirement, Im not persuaded he had a concrete plan. The advice paperwork recorded 
that Mr Ms ideal retirement age was 60. It also recorded that Mr M was prepared to work for 
longer  perhaps to 61 or 62  should it be required. But I think that, based on what was also 
recorded, Mr Ms eventual retirement age was to a greater extent contingent on Mr Ms 
dependent childs decision about entering further education. The fact-find records that: 
.,..my retirement date will depend upon if he continues into further education. I would wish 
to support him though this process, meaning I could retire at 61/62 if he ends his education. 
So it seems that the possibility existed, if Mr Ms son continued into further education for 
example, that he might need or choose to work beyond age 62. 
So I dont think there was any degree of certainty that Mr M would retire at 60 or before his 
schemes normal retirement age, although I accept that he liked the idea of retiring early. 
And Mr M already had this option available to him  he didnt have to transfer out to achieve 
this. I accept Mr M couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose 
to take a cash lump sum and a reduced annual pension, Mr M had to take those benefits at 
the same time. But nothing here indicates that Mr M had a likely future need to take a cash 
lump sum and defer taking his income. The capital expenditure Mr M said he would likely 
make was indicated to be at his retirement age  so at the same time as he would take an 
income. I also havent seen anything to indicate that Mr M had a strong need to vary his 
income throughout retirement  the evidence suggests his target income was fixed. And just 
because when his state pension became payable his income might be greater than he 
indicated he would need, does not of itself indicate a strong need for flexibility.
So it strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a 
personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ms at the time.
Nevertheless, and importantly Mr M was contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme. 
And the nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Mr M with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. TCL recorded that a total of 20% of Mr Ms 
salary was being invested here  a combination of employer and employee contributions. So 
by age 60, without accounting for growth, salary increases or increases in contribution rate, 
this could be worth around £38,000. I think Mr M couldve draw on this flexibly, as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr M retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, 
wouldve likely given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided.
So in any event, Mr M didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. But if Mr M did in 
fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this couldve 
been explored closer to his intended retirement age. And if Mr M opted into the BSPS2, he 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if his needs later demanded 
it. I think TCL couldve explained this more clearly to Mr M.
I can see the planning for retirement questionnaire completed at the time of the advice, 
refers to Mr M wanting access to the maximum tax-free cash possible  it recorded this was 
crucial. But while Mr Ms intention to use a lump sum to buy a dream car was quantified at 
£50,000, the other things in this questionnaire such as travel, holidays and potential 
weddings etc werent quantified. So without TCL knowing how much Mr M needed for these 
things, it wasnt in a position to conclude that the lump sum available from the DB scheme 
was insufficient. Mr M had cash savings of around £30,000 (he might also have been able to 
increase this in the years to his retirement) and he had his DC scheme which he could take 
lump sums from if needed. So Im not persuaded TCL demonstrated that Mr M did genuinely 
need access to a cash lump sum greater than his DB scheme could provide. 
Turning to Mr Ms income need. The advice paperwork recorded that Mr Ms total income 
need was £24,000 a year net. He had £12,000 a year net coming from rental income, so
Mr Ms pension needed to provide him with £12,000 net a year. And as I indicated earlier on, 
I think Mr M couldve met his retirement income needs by retaining his DB scheme benefits.
Assuming Mr M did retire at age, which as Ive already said was far from certain, TCLs 
analysis showed that if Mr M opted into the BSPS2 he would be entitled to a full pension or 
just over £19,000 a year. If Mr M chose to take a cash lump sum, which I think was likely 
based on the evidence, his starting income would be lower than this and likely somewhere 
around £14,000-£15,000 a year. This might not have met Mr Ws income needs in full, but I 
think he couldve used his DC pension to top up his income as required  at least until his 
state pension became payable. Mr M would only likely need a couple of thousand pounds a 
year to supplement his DB scheme income until he received his state pension  so I think 
there would likely be sufficient funds in his DC scheme to allow him to achieve things.
That said, I think Mr M would retire later than age 60  as Ive already said, what was 
recorded in the advice paperwork at the time would suggest a later retirement age was more 
likely. And this would mean that Mr Ms starting income would be greater than that at age 60 
 at age 65 it was expected to be around £25,600 a year through the BSPS2. So if 
Mr M did choose to retire around 61 or 62, I think its likely that his DB scheme together with 
his rental income would be sufficient to meet his income needs. Mr M would also still have 
his DC pension scheme to draw on flexibly, as and when needed.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr M wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And 
while the income Mr M would receive might be lower than the pension hed be entitled to 
under the BSPS2, (although at age 60 TCLs analysis indicated a reduced pension was 
around £15,200 a year) I dont think it was substantially lower such that it shouldve made a 
difference to the recommendation at this time. As Ive said above, any shortfall which was 
likely to be small couldve be made up from Mr Ms DC scheme.
Overall, I think Mr M couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through either the 
BSPS2 or the PPF based on a preferred retirement age of 60. So, I dont think it was in 
Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility, that Im not 
persuaded he really needed.Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy planning tool. And I dont think 
TCL explored to what extent Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. It was 
recorded that Mr M didnt want to make provision for his wife because she had her own 
provision. But this appears to have been accepted by TCL without any challenge or 
understanding of what means Mr Ms wife had. I think because Mr M was married the 50% 
spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr M 
predeceased her. I dont think TCL made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr M. This 
was guaranteed and it escalated. Under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would also be 
calculated as if no lump sum had been taken. Furthermore it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In 
any event, TCL should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Im mindful too that Mr M already had lump sum death benefits available  he had his DC 
workplace pension and he also had death-in-service benefits which wouldve paid out in the 
event of his death before retirement. If Mr M hadnt done so already, he could nominate his 
wife and/or children as beneficiaries of these. But in addition to this, Mr M owned property 
and it was recorded that he was due to receive an inheritance of a not insignificant amount. 
So it strikes me that Mr M had significant wealth that he could pass on to his family upon his 
death in any event.
But if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family / children over and above what 
they already stood to inherit, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of 
his pension fund remained on his death, I think TCL couldve explored additional life 
insurance. I appreciate that the suitability report referred to a quote of £75.30 a month for a 
level term assurance policy with a sum assured or around £448,000 (the shortfall as TCL 
referred to it, or the difference between the transfer value and the lump sum return of 
contributions Mr Ms wife would receive through the DB scheme upon Mr Ms death.) This 
was discounted because Mr M didnt want to pay for a life policy and didnt see this as a 
viable option. 
Firstly, basing the quote on this figure wasnt, in my view, a balanced way of presenting this 
option to Mr M. Basing the quote this way essentially assumed that he would pass away on 
day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr M wanted to leave 
whatever remained of his pension to his family, which would be a lot less than this if he lived 
a long life and/or if investment returns were lower than expected. So, the starting point ought 
to have been to ask Mr M how much he would ideally like to leave to his family taking into 
account the things I referred to above that he could pass on, and this couldve been explored 
on a whole of life or term assurance basis. And I think this would likely be cheaper to 
provide.Despite this, Im not sure why Mr M rejected TCLs quote; the monthly premium was 
affordable based on the £900 a month surplus income Mr M was recorded as having. 
To my mind, the fact this wasnt explored further might suggest that greater death benefits 
wasnt in fact a genuine objective of Mr Ms  instead, it was simply a consequence of 
transferring his pension to a personal arrangement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But TCL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the proposed BSPS2 or the
PPF. By transferring to a personal pension arrangement, Mr M was, in my view, likely to 
obtain lower retirement benefits at his preferred retirement age. And I dont think there were 
any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. Mr M 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to have flexibility or the option 
of having access to a greater level of tax-free cash that Im not persuaded he really needed, 
and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated 
with his DB scheme. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension at this time when he had the opportunity of opting into the 
BSPS2.
So, I think TCL shouldve advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. While Mr M indicated he might 
retire early at age 60, this wasnt certain at the time. So, I don't think that it would've been in 
his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if his needs later demanded it. Also, Mr M was married, and his 
wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr M chose to do so). The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
So, I think TCL shouldve advised Mr M to retain his DB scheme benefits and opt into the 
BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against TCL's 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against TCLs advice. 
I say this because, while I accept Mr M was likely motivated to transfer when he approached 
TCL given the situation and wider circumstances at the time, on balance, I still think Mr M 
wouldve listened to and followed its advice if things had happened as they should have and 
TCL had recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. Mr M was not, in my view, an experienced stock-market based investor or someone who 
possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice they was given, 
particularly in complex pension matters. Mr Ms pension accounted for a significant portion of 
his retirement income and which he would need to rely on. So, if TCL had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that any concerns Mr M might have had about his employer or the 
scheme were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional 
adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable 
for him or in his best interests. So, if TCL had clearly explained this and that Mr M could 
likely meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried 
significant weight. So, I dont think Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS if 
TCL had given suitable advice that he not do so and that he should opt into the BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think TCL should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, in line 
with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr M. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
TCL  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr M. Taking everything into account, including Mr Ms age and 
the fact hes closer to retirement, coupled with my view that I consider Mr Ms retirement 
provision is of great importance to him given its significance in his overall retirement income 
provision, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I think an award of 
£300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved to the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given.
TCL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
TCL should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and hes been clear that he has no immediate plans to 
do so at present. In light of this and because the evidence from the time suggests Mr M was 
prepared to and might have to continue working beyond age 61/62, compensation should be 
based on the schemes normal retirement age (65) as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, TCL should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts TCLs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, TCL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require TenetConnect Limited 
to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
TenetConnect Limited pays Mr M the balance.
TCL should also pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience the matter has caused.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on TenetConnect Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decisionUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman