DRN-1117256
The complaint
Miss P says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Miss P was sold the policy in 2003 when she telephoned Capital One to activate a new 
credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint because:
Miss P took applied for the credit card in June 2003 using a postal application form. Ive 
seen the application form and there is a section which gave Miss P the option to accept or 
decline PPI by ticking one of two boxes. I can see both boxes were left blank 
The PPI was sold to Miss P during a telephone call in July 2003 when she called to activate 
the new credit card. As Miss P had not indicated on the application form whether she wanted 
PPI or not I think its reasonable to assume that a conversation about PPI took place during 
the activation call.
Capital One hasnt been able to give us a recording of the call. I dont find that surprising as 
the call took place 16 years ago and the credit card itself has been closed since 2006. And I 
wouldnt expect a business to retain call recordings for that long.
Capital One has given us a copy of the script that it says was in use at the time of the sale.    
I dont know how closely the Capital One representative followed the script, but I think it 
likely gives an indication of how the call was structured. And I can see it wouldve been 
made clear the policy was optional.
I also note the PPI remained on Miss Ps account for some time. And during that time the 
premiums wouldve appeared on Miss Ps monthly statements. So if it was something she 
hadnt asked for or wanted, Id expect her to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive 
not seen any evidence that she did.
So taking everything into account I think its most likely that Capital One made Miss P aware 
she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. Although I can 
understand if Miss P cant recall this after so many years. From looking at the script, I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Miss P so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it still had to give Miss P clear information 
about the policy so she could decide for herself whether to buy it. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Miss P doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. For example Miss P has told us she didnt have any existing medical 
conditions that wouldnt have been covered.
It looks like Miss P was eligible for the cover. So shed have been able to make a claim if she 
needed to.
Based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful 
to Miss P if things went wrong. Miss P has told us she would have received some sick pay 
from her employer if she was unable to work due an accident or sickness. The PPI policy 
sold to her couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Miss P became unwell 
which is likely longer than any sick pay would have lasted. The policy would have paid a 
benefit for up to 12 months if Miss P lost her job. And Ive not seen any evidence that 
suggests the PPI premiums were unaffordable for Miss P.
Miss P has said her partner could have helped her if she had been unable to make the credit 
card repayments. Ive thought about this, and although Miss Ps partner would no doubt 
have wanted to help her, they might not have been in a position to do so when Miss P 
needed help most. And in any event the PPI policy wouldve meant Miss P didnt need to rely 
on her partner to meet her credit card repayments.
So after taking everything into account, I think its most likely Capital One made it clear that 
Miss P had a choice about buying the policy and she chose to take it. I also think Miss P 
wouldve gone ahead and bought it even if Capital One had given her all the clear 
information it should have. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Miss P's complaint and I make no award 
against Capital One (Europe) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman