DRN-2602590
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy Metro Bank PLC will not refund all of the money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
Miss B wanted to buy a mobile phone to replace her phone which was damaged. Shes 
explained that shed saved up some money and was interested in an Apple iPhone 11 Pro 
Max 256GB handset. Her research suggested the phones retail price was around £900 to 
buy new. 
Miss B saw a new Apple iPhone 11 Pro Max 256GB mobile phone advertised for sale by a 
seller on an online auction marketplace. Miss B has told us that she has been buying goods 
on the auction website for many years and has never had a problem. 
Miss B recalls that when she looked at the advert, the bidding on the item was up to £699, 
but the listing had an option to make an offer. She says that the seller had positive feedback 
with the reviews left by other buyers suggesting that they had sold over 100 items 
previously. She sent the seller a direct message on the auction website and made an offer of 
£850 to buy the phone now. The seller accepted. 
The seller messaged Miss B and asked her to pay directly by bank transfer to avoid the 
auction websites fees and charges. The seller explained to Miss B that some of the 
proceeds from the sale would be given to charity and paying this way would maximise the 
amount of money that would be donated. Miss B recalls that the listing for the phone did 
reference 10% of the proceeds of the sale going to charity so what the seller told her made 
sense.  
On 31 January 2020, Miss B made a faster payment of £850 to the account details shed 
been given by the seller. But Miss B became concerned when the listing completely 
disappeared from the auction website and the seller stopped responding to her queries 
about postage and tracking. Miss B contacted her bank straight away for help. 
Metro contacted the receiving bank and it was eventually able to recover £151 of the money 
Miss B had sent. It paid this back to her on 25 March 2020. It also considered whether it had 
any responsibility to refund Miss B for her loss.
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Metro says one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. 
When Metro considered the matter, it made an offer to refund 50% of the amount Miss B had 
sent. It said it could have done more to advise Miss B around the risk of scams but felt 
Miss B didnt take reasonable steps to check if the payment was genuine. It said she should 
have followed the advice and terms and conditions of the auction website. 
Miss B brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with the banks decision. 
She remained out of pocket and thought Metro should have refunded her in full. She 
explained that shed never sold any items on the auction website herself so didnt know 
anything about the fees and payment arrangements when doing so. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld.
He did not think that Metro had been able to establish that Miss B did not have a reasonable 
basis for believing that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the payment 
was for genuine goods and /or that the person she was transacting with was legitimate. 
He did not think Miss B had any reason to be suspicious of the seller and highlighted the 
sellers positive feedback and the fact that they had been a member of the online 
marketplace since 2013. He did not think the price Miss B had paid for the phone was out of 
line with what this model typically cost at that time. Miss B provided copies of her 
conversations with the seller. Our investigator did not see anything concerning in the way 
Miss B and the seller had interacted, noting that the seller had given what he considered to 
be a plausible reason to explain why Miss B should pay by bank transfer. 
Our investigator concluded Metro should have fully reimbursed Miss Bs loss under the 
provisions of the CRM Code at the time she made her claim. He said Metro should now 
settle the complaint by refunding the outstanding £274, together with interest on the sum at 
the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined her claim to the date of settlement. 
He also suggested that Metro should pay £100 compensation to Miss B to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused by not refunding her in full at the earliest 
opportunity. 
Metro did not agree with our investigators position but did not give any specific reason why. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that: 
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Metro should have refunded the full £850 Miss B 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
I understand Miss B has already been refunded 50% of the loss (£425) by Metro and 
that it was able to recover a further £151 from the receiving bank. In the 
circumstances, Metro should now refund the remaining £274 Miss B lost. 
The money was taken from Miss Bs current account. It is not clear how she would 
have used the money if Metro had refunded it when it should have done, so Metro 
should also pay interest on the outstanding amount at 8% simple per year from the 
date it partially declined Miss Bs claim to the date of payment.
In this case, Metro has already said that it did not give Miss B good enough warnings to 
impact her decision making at the time she made the payment. As Metro has accepted it 
didnt do enough to protect Miss B, Im going to go on and consider whether Metro has been 
able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse Miss B fully for any other reasons given 
in the Code. Ive carefully considered the banks reasons for partially declining Miss Bs claim and its 
concerns around whether Miss B had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be 
genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular, I am not 
persuaded that Miss B failed to take the requisite level of care required for Metro to choose 
not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied Metro has not shown that Miss B lacked a reasonable basis for belief because:
There was nothing obviously untoward about this seller from the information that was 
available to Miss B at the time. It is possible for some or all of the proceeds of a sale 
made on the marketplace to be donated to charity so I dont think there was any 
reason for Miss B to think this was, in and of itself, odd. 
The seller gave Miss B a plausible reason why they wanted payment by bank 
transfer and I dont think it was unreasonable for Miss B to consider this to be 
credible. Miss B has explained that she did not have any knowledge or previous 
experience of sellers fees on the website so did not know what the rules were. 
Metro has expressed concern that Miss B did not follow the marketplaces own 
guidance to protect herself. But the online help pages for the marketplace confirm 
that it allows bank to bank transfers as a payment method and I have no reason to 
think it did not do so when Miss B made her payment. And I note that all of Miss Bs 
dealings with the seller were conducted through the marketplaces messaging and 
communication platform, which shes explained gave her confidence that she did 
everything right.
At the time she made the payment, Miss B had no reason to think this seller would 
not keep to their side of the bargain, given her positive experiences of using the 
auction website to buy other items in the past and the good feedback the seller had 
received over many years. User feedback and reviews are an integral part of the 
online marketplace experience and its not unreasonable for Miss B to have felt 
reassured that she was dealing with a trusted and established seller as a result of the 
positive feedback she explains she saw. Im not persuaded that Miss B ought 
reasonably to have had any qualms about the seller at the time she made the offer to 
buy the phone. All of the information Miss B had indicated she was buying genuine 
goods from a legitimate seller. 
Sales of items on marketplaces can have a degree of negotiation around the price 
and its not unusual for interested buyers to make offers to secure a deal. But the 
price agreed for the phone was in keeping with how much the device typically cost at 
that time. 
The CRM Code is designed to give people that have fallen victim to an APP scam the 
confidence that they will be reimbursed if they have acted appropriately. I am satisfied that 
Miss B, at the time of making the payment, had a reasonable basis for believing the payee 
was the person she was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Its clear that Miss B has found things difficult as a result of the scam. Shes explained that it 
was money shed worked hard for and could ill afford to lose. She told our investigator that 
she pawned some of her jewellery to make up the shortfall. If Metro had refunded the full 
loss to Miss B at the earliest opportunity, some of the distress and inconvenience shes 
described would have been avoided. So I agree with our investigators recommendation that 
£100 compensation is appropriate in this case. 
Putting things right
Ive decided that Miss B ought reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. I therefore direct Metro to pay:
the remainder of the money she lost as part of the scam - £274  within 28 days of
receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, calculated from the date Metro 
declined Miss Bs claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement- less any tax 
lawfully deductible 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Miss B has experienced 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Bs complaint about Metro Bank PLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman