DRN-1696095
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs P were sold a MPPI policy in 1995 during a meeting. 
The MPPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr and/or 
Mrs P were off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs P were eligible under the policy. Based on Mr 
and Mrs Ps age, residence and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied they were 
eligible.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs P that the MPPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to Mr and Mrs Ps account.  Mr and Mrs P say the policy 
wasnt presented as optional and they were pressured into taking it out. They say if they 
hadnt been pressured, they wouldnt have taken it out as they had sufficient existing 
repayment provisions in place.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs 
P have told us and have considered the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form. Within this document there is 
a section for MPPI. Theres nothing in this section which would suggest that the MPPI was 
compulsory and in fact this section gives Mr and Mrs P an option as to whether or not they 
would like MPPI to be arranged for them. I can see that there is a tick in the box which 
indicates that Mr and Mrs P chose to take MPPI.However, Mr and Mrs P say that they did not tick this box. They say that Mr P is left handed 
and the ticks on the form completed by him are left handed ticks but the tick in the box for 
MPPI is not a left handed tick. Mr and Mrs P say that Santander ticked this box.  
I have thought about this carefully but although I appreciate that a number of the boxes 
clearly contained left handed ticks, it is also right that a number of the other boxes that 
were ticked contained ticks similar to the tick in the box to take MPPI. Even if these ticks 
weren't actually completed by Mr and Mrs P, it seems to me that these ticks were completed 
based on the information provided by Mr and Mrs P as Santander wouldn't have known 
which boxes would otherwise be relevant. And other than the tick in the box to take MPPI, 
Mr and Mrs P haven't said, for example, that the information in those other boxes was 
incorrectly ticked or shouldnt have been ticked. I also note that, in any event, Mr and Mrs P 
signed this form and it would have been their responsibility to check the information on the 
mortgage application before signing it.
So having taken everything into consideration, I think Santander presented the policy as 
optional and it was only applied to the account because Mr and Mrs P chose to take it out.
I have also considered what Mr and Mrs P say about being strongly advised and pressured 
into taking PPI. This is a very subjective area and "strongly advised" doesnt necessarily 
amount to pressure. Based on the information I've been provided with, I just don't have 
sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that Mr and Mrs P were pressured into taking PPI.
Santander accept they advised Mr and Mrs P to take MPPI. This means they had to check it 
was suitable for them. I dont know if Santander took all the steps they should have to check 
if the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P but I do think the policy was suitable for them. I 
will go on to explain why.
Mr P has told us he was entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half pay. I 
havent seen evidence of this entitlement. But even if Mr P was entitled to this amount of sick 
pay I dont think this made MPPI unsuitable for him. This is because the MPPI was 
protecting a valuable asset and would have paid out in addition to Mr Ps sick pay. And it 
would have been particularly useful when Mr Ps sick pay was reduced. Mrs P has told us 
she was entitled to statutory sick pay. Again the policy would have paid out in addition to this 
and for a much longer period of time. The mortgage was a long term commitment and 
repeated claims would have been possible under the policy. The MPPI would also have paid 
out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr and/or Mrs P lost their jobs in addition to any 
redundancy pay they may have been entitled to.
Mr and Mrs P say they had life cover. But this is not the same type of benefit as MPPI.  
MPPI was designed to pay out a monthly benefit if Mr and Mrs P were unable to work due to 
sickness/unemployment whereas life cover would have paid out (usually a lump sum) in the 
unfortunate event of Mr and/or Mrs Ps death. Mr P also mentions savings. But these 
couldnt have been guaranteed to be available at the point Mr and Mrs P may have needed 
them. In any event, if they were available when the need arose, they could have been used 
to help with essential living expenses while the MPPI took care of the mortgage repayments.
The policy contained certain exclusions and restrictions. One of these was that Mr and Mrs P 
wouldn't have been able to make a claim for pre-existing medical conditions. It transpires 
that Mr P did suffer from a medical condition at the time of the sale. So he wouldnt have 
been able to make a claim under the policy for this condition. Ive thought carefully about 
this. But I dont think this made the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs P. This is because Mr 
and Mrs P have informed us that Mr P had this condition since he was 3 years old, it was 
well-managed and Mr P had not needed to take any time off work for this condition. Based 
on the evidence available I think its unlikely that Mr P would have needed to take time off for this condition. And even if he did, its unlikely that he would need to take the amount of time 
off that would be required in order for this policy to start paying out (more than 30 days). Mr 
and Mrs P could have made a claim for any other medical condition. And I havent seen 
anything else in terms of exclusions and restrictions in the policy which would have made the 
policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs P at the time of the sale.
I havent seen any evidence which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs P at 
the time of the sale. And Mr and Mrs P could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without 
losing out financially if they no longer wanted or needed it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P, Santander also had to give 
them clear information about the MPPI in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs P wasnt as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Santander mis-sold Mr and Mrs P 
this MPPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman