DRN-4182071
The complaint
Mr X is unhappy with the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with his home insurance
claim for fire damage to his property. Although most of the dealings in the claim were by loss
adjusters, unless I say otherwise, for convenience I shall refer to AXA throughout.
What happened
Mr Xs home suffered a fire in early June 2022, when some cooking oil in the kitchen caught
fire. There was extensive damage to the kitchen and surrounding area, and other areas of 
the house were affected. He and his family consisted of 9 adults and 5 children. They were 
put in emergency hotel accommodation at the outset. AXA immediately sent instructions to 
an accommodation bureau to seek longer term rental, but in the light of the size of the family, 
it had considerable difficulty doing so. Mr X has medical and age vulnerabilities and other 
members of his family also have vulnerabilities. This was noted by AXA at the outset.
AXA arranged for a specialist cleaning /drying company to assess the cost of cleaning and 
drying the property and to assess the damaged contents. Then a contractor was sent to 
review the repairs needed in early July. However Mr X wasnt happy with that contractor. 
AXA agreed to appoint an alternative contractor. The new contractors then priced up a
schedule of works. However AXA thought the schedule to be overpriced in part and decided
that a surveyor would be needed.
Mr X was concerned about the instructions given to the surveyor as he felt they were being
asked to not price certain items because AXA thought they werent related to the fire
damage. AXA tried to reassure Mr X that the surveyor would be independent, but
nonetheless agreed to instruct a different surveyor.
The surveyors site visit took place at the end of August 2022. There was some confusion as
AXA had omitted to cancel the first surveyor, so one surveyor from the first firm and two from
the second firm were there, together with the loss adjuster. Mr Xs sons were there but after
consultation with their father opted to proceed with the second firm. After the visit had taken
place, Mr X complained that one of the two surveyors from the second firm lived near them
and knew them. AXA agreed that the surveyor would no longer have any dealings with the
claim, although denied that there was any relationship with Mr Xs family.
Mr X nonetheless decided that he didnt want to proceed with the surveyors and asked AXA
to appoint a different firm. AXA said it had no more surveyors it could appoint and, in any
event, if Mr X was questioning their independence that would apply to any surveyor it might
appoint.
In the meantime AXA warned Mr X that the alternative accommodation (AA) limit of £85,000
would soon be used up. It paid Mr X a disturbance allowance (DA) of £2,000 a month (total
paid of £6,000) for the first three months. Mr X reluctantly agreed to an arrangement
whereby three properties would be rented and some family members would live with a 
relative with an allowance paid. AXA made it clear that the AA limit in the policy would be 
used up by the end of the six months let. He and his family moved to those properties in mid-
September 2022.
It was agreed that Mr X would appoint his own surveyor. In fact he chose to appoint,
independently, a surveyor from the first firm. He did this in early September. However
because the surveyor decided to put the works out to tender, their report and tender analysis
was only available at the end of November. At that stage that surveyor recommended
proceeding with the lowest priced tender, of £145,900 plus VAT.
The loss adjusters received the tender analysis and recommended to AXA a settlement of
£110,000 be made, which excluded provisional sums. This was put to Mr X in mid-January.
He rejected it and the offer was increased. I understand from Mr Xs response to our
Investigators view, that the buildings element of the claim was settled for £150,000 inclusive
of VAT. Although Im not clear exactly when, this would have been some time after our
Investigators view dated 24 March 2023.
After the six months let on the properties ran out in March 2023, Mr X advises us that he had
to move back to the partially burnt out house.
From the point of view of payments made to Mr X before April 2023, these consisted of three
payments of DA at £2,000 each, and an interim settlement for the contents of £13,423.
Mr X made complaints about the way he was treated by agents at the accommodation
bureau particularly with regard to extending the hotel stays, and by AXAs claim handlers. He
also said that AXA had failed to pay him a full DA and failed to provide adequate AA for him
and his family. He further said that due to the delays in the case he had to return to a burnt
out house.
His initial complaints about the way he was treated, lack of communication and with regard
to the provision of AA were responded to by AXA in an email of 22 August 2022. It said that
the claims team could have managed certain elements of the claim better. And that there
were occasions that proactivity and communication had been lacking, for which it
apologised. Further the delays in extending the interim accommodation, understandably
increased the level of inconvenience at an already difficult time for Mr X and his family. It
paid £300 compensation. It hasnt responded to Mr Xs further complaints although I
understand it has agreed to us looking at them.
On review by our Investigator she said that in all respects AXA had acted reasonably, so
wouldnt recommend any further award.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that AXA should consider the blinds and light 
fittings as part of the buildings settlement, and should pay 8% simple interest on £110,000 
from 1 December 2022 until the settlement was paid.
I also said that AXA should pay further DA of £2,220, plus £2,000 per month DA (assessed 
proportionately), with interest, for the period that Mr X had to live in the unrepaired property 
until he received the settlement.
And that AXA should also pay a further £700 compensation
AXA responded and said it has no further evidence to submit.
Mr X responded. I have set out his comments  and my responses below..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I should reiterate what I said in my provisional findings concerning the function of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I have read and fully considered Mr Xs points in response. 
but I will be looking at this matter holistically rather than making findings on every point 
made. 
My provisional findings are set out below, in italics:
I should advise Mr X first of all that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative
dispute resolution service. Our function is to try to resolve complaints informally between the
parties and to look at the overall service provided. To that end, whilst I have fully considered
Mr Xs correspondence with the Financial Ombudsman Service, and the documents 
provided by him and by AXA, I wont be going into each and every complaint point by point.
delays
This is one of Mr Xs major complaints. He contends that if AXA hadnt caused delays in the
matter, he wouldnt have had to return to a burnt-out house with the AA allowance being
used up.
The loss adjuster carried out a site visit almost immediately. A contractor came out at the
beginning of July. Mr X objected to that contractors behaviour. Though the contractor denies
it and it does appear that Mr X objected to any discussions about any issues the house had
(particularly damp) before the fire. However I dont think any major delay occurred in
appointing a new contractor. And it appears that it was AXAs decision to appoint a surveyor
following the second contractors estimate. I think that was a reasonable decision by it. And
Ive not seen any indication that the surveyors visit could have taken place any sooner than
it did, i.e. 27 August 2022.
Im aware that after that visit Mr X decided that he didnt want AXAs surveyor to report. But it
was an awkward situation, in that because of a mix up between AXA and the first surveyor
representatives from two firms of surveyors turned up, the second one after the first surveyor
had already started discussing the claim with Mr Xs sons. They had to choose on the spot
which firm to use.. As it was already a delicate situation, Im not surprised if Mr X then lacked
confidence. Another issue was that one of the surveyors lived nearby and Mr X asserted
afterwards that they were known to him. Though this was nobodys fault (in my view)., it
nevertheless didnt inspire confidence.
I dont think Mr X was at fault for the delay in his appointed surveyor reporting. I do think,
given AXAs experience of Mr X from the outset, it was always going to be likely that he
wouldnt be satisfied with AXAs appointed surveyor. He appointed a surveyor in early
September 2022 and the only reason for the delay in reporting was because that surveyor
carried out a tender process, to which three firms responded. Such a process would
inevitably take some time. And whilst AXA probably could have proceeded with the repairs
without putting the works out to tender I doubt that a private surveyor could have easily done
that.
I do think though that AXA delayed after receiving the tender documents on 27 November
2022. Within a few days the loss adjusters were able to recommend to AXA that it settle for
£110,000. It took until 14 January 2023 for AXA to approve this offer. And though Mr X didnt
accept the offer, and later an improved offer was accepted, AXA made no attempt to provide
an interim payment which it could have done at the beginning of December. Certainly, no
payment for the buildings had been made by the time the AA had expired. If this had been
made Mr X might at least have been in a position to get works under way before the AA had
expired.I think, as a partial remedy to this, AXA should pay 8% simple interest on the £110,000 from
1 December 2022 until it paid the settlement.
AA and DA
From the outset of this claim AXA was aware that firstly the property was likely to be
uninhabitable for some time and that Mr Xs family consisted of 14 people, incurring
expensive hotel costs. I note that it immediately instructed an accommodation bureau who
advised fairly quickly that AA for 14 people in one property was unlikely to be available.
Further, I dont think AXA was clear enough in warning Mr X that like for like AA wasnt going
to be available and he would have to compromise. It wasnt really until mid-July, when
£60,000 of the £85,000 limit had been used up, that any urgency in seeking a rental property
was impressed upon Mr X. I can understand that in his situation he would have been very
unhappy to be told that. But in my view, it would have been better than what did happen,
which was to later tell Mr X that the AA limit had run out and no further payments would be
made, though he had thought the payments had been agreed.
Mr X moved into the let properties on or about 19 September 2022. Its my view that had
warnings been given to Mr X sooner, he could have moved into let properties about a month
sooner than he did.
As regards DA, I dont think this situation was set out to Mr X very clearly either. He was told
he could be paid £500 per week, but this became £2,000 a month. There was also an
agreement that four family members would stay with a relative and be paid a total allowance
of £1,229 a month. Im aware that the DA paid was considerably less than the usual
payments given for DA (which would be £10 a day for adults and £5 a day for children). I
understand the reasons for this, which was to manage the AA limit. And the insurer is not
obliged under the policy terms to pay DA for any particular amount.
I think the problem in this case is that Mr X, despite being aware of the policy limits for AA
was told he would receive the allowances. He received £2,000 for each of the first three
months but received no payment in September or for the family members living with
relatives. Instead, he was later told there were no funds available.
In light of my finding concerning when Mr X should have been able to move to the let
properties, I think AXA should pay further DA of £1,000 for September 2022 and £1,220 for
one month of the family members staying with a relative, a total of £2,220. Additionally, it
should pay DA for the time Mr X had to live in the burnt-out house without a settlement.
However, I dont know if a figure for this was included in the settlement. If it wasnt, it should
be paid proportionately at the rate of £2,000 a month until the settlement was paid.
Bearing in mind that the policy limit had been exhausted, but that AXA should have been
much clearer with Mr X, I think this is a reasonable payment to make.
conduct of claims handlers
Mr X says the claims handlers were bullying, neglectful and rude to him. He believes they
discriminated against him because of his vulnerabilities.
I think AXA was aware and was mindful of Mr Xs vulnerabilities from the outset. It admitted
that it wasnt proactive enough at the start of the matter. However, from considering the calls
made I dont think that AXAs claims handlers were rude or bullying. The calls Ive listened to
all appeared to end amicably. Im aware that Mr X preferred communication by telephone
rather than by email. And I understand that one claims handler was appointed to give Mr X
regular updates. AXA subsequently decided that it would limit telephone contact with Mr Xbecause he was calling in multiple times and it felt this agitated his health condition There
was, I think, a certain element also of AXA wanting to protect its members of staff.
Whilst Im aware that Mr X denies this, if this was AXAs perception, I dont feel I can criticise
it for this. I dont find that AXAs claims handlers acted unfairly towards him.
availability of hotel rooms
At the beginning of the claim Mr X was quite understandably anxious about himself and his
family being able to stay in hotels. And I understand that there were occasions when Mr X
had to chase up to ensure rooms were booked. At first this was done on a very short-term
basis which caused more stress. On one occasion there was no booking for one night,
though Im unaware whether this was the hotels or the accommodation bureaus error. As a
result, some family members had to sleep on a relatives floor, and this was clearly
distressing. After this the hotel stays were booked on a longer-term basis.
Im aware that Mr X has complained about the attitude of some of the members of staff at 
the bureau, and feels it shouldnt have been used. But looking for AA is a specialised job and
there are a limited number of agencies an insurer can use. The normal procedure would be
to find out what the consumer wants but also to let them look for their own, and I havent
seen anything wrong with that. As for the attitude I dont think I have enough evidence, given
the bureaus denial of any inappropriate conduct, to make a finding about that.
Mr X feels the bureaus fees shouldnt have been charged as part of his AA allowance.
However, given that his AA limit was exceeded by around £10,000 and that the bureau was
entitled to be paid for its services I dont intend to make any award about that. As for the
difficulties at first and the one night when Mr X didnt have anywhere to say I think the
compensation paid and that Im proposing to award is reasonable to account for that.
deposit payments
When the let properties were booked AXA paid the deposits out of the contents limit on the
policy. No doubt this was done to help Mr X as such deposits are normally for the consumer
to pay. I think AXA should have told Mr X what it proposed to do but given that the deposits
would have been returned and that it was unlikely that Mr X would have been able to fund
this out of his own pocket, I dont propose to take any further action.
settlement
I understand that Mr X has accepted settlements for the cleaning of the buildings and the
contents, repairs to the building, the contents and further AA during the repairs. Mr X
remains unhappy with the amounts paid.
Apart from the contents Im not in a position to review the settlement of the other items. This
is because the circumstances in which settlement was agreed would need to be investigated
and the actual amounts paid against these he now seeks may need to be gone into in detail
with both sides. So far all I have is his assertion that he should be paid more. Im afraid this
will have to be the subject of a separate complaint.
In respect of the contents, Mr X has mentioned the bespoke fitted blinds and some light
fittings which AXA insisted on adding to the contents settlement. As the limit was reached
effectively he wouldnt have been paid for these. My view is that fitted blinds and any lights
that werent free standing were part of the buildings. I wont consider these here as they
have to be considered as part of the buildings settlement, and I would observe, contained in
the tender quotation.Otherwise Im satisfied that the contents were assessed at a reasonable figure, taking
account of the uplift in value in respect of certain holidays and birthdays. Mr X asserts he
should be paid more to account for inflation since the claim was made, but Im satisfied this
was settled within a reasonable time and that an uplift of £1,000 was fair.
compensation
Mr X has been paid compensation of £300. In light of my findings concerning the delays in
providing him with a settlement or any interim payment leading to the AA expiring before he
could get any repairs under way, I think that he should be paid a further £700 for distress
and inconvenience.
Mr X feels that important factual points highlighted in his response of 24 April 2023 have 
been missed and the gravity of the mistakes that were caused by AXA are not fully reflected 
in the compensation offered.
Mr X has also mentioned discrimination. We dont make findings of discrimination under the 
Equality Act, as that is the function of the courts. But we can decide whether AXA treated 
Mr X fairly, bearing in mind the vulnerabilities he has advised us, and AXA, about.
I have corrected factual points in the background. Specifically with regard to the contents, 
the £13,423 was an interim settlement, The full settlement, the balance of which was paid in 
April 2023, was £45,659.63. 
building settlement
Mr X asks that some form of remedy should be provided in addition to the interest offered as  
it should not have taken until 13 April 2023. He also points out that the matter was settled by 
AXA taking over the conduct of the claim at the end of March 2023. He feels that it could 
have taken over in September 2022. 
The interest to be paid is addressed in the point about the delay in addressing the 
settlement, as I set out in my findings. I also took it into account in my award of 
compensation.
Im aware that Mr X was upset at the conduct of the loss adjusters. But in September 2023, 
Mr Xs surveyor had just carried out his inspection, and then the matter was put out to 
tender. A loss adjuster would normally perform the function of assessing and recommending 
a settlement. I think that the delays from December 2022 until full settlement was made were 
due to AXA not agreeing the claim and then failing to pay the settlement in time. It appears 
that the loss adjusters could have done more to chase things up, but I dont think that AXA 
was in a position to take over the claim until its loss adjusters reported.
 DA
Mr X says that given that AXA was fully aware of Mr Xs and his familys vulnerabilities, it is 
unreasonable to justify paying DA less than the amount entitled by being of the 
understanding they are not legally required to under the policy. He feels it would be much 
fairer to ask that it honours its promise to pay for family members to stay elsewhere and pay 
£1,220 for each month of the 6 months his 4 family members stayed with relatives.
He has an email from AXA accepting that it pays DA at a specific rate above what he was 
paid and feels that this does constitute discrimination.I dont think that the payment of DA reflected a lack of care about Mr Xs vulnerability. And 
again while I accept that the DA actually paid was less than the amount an insurer normally 
pays, in this case Mr X and his family consisted of 14 persons. And the purpose of paying 
DA was to account for Mr Xs specific expenditure incurred by staying in a hotel. So that 
would come out of the policy limit for AA. I have already said this could have been handled 
better but faced with the choice of paying the full DA and letting the accommodation limit run 
out, leaving Mr X to pay for his own accommodation it made sense in my view to limit the DA 
payments to enable Mr X and his family to keep staying in a hotel.
As to payment of additional DA, I can require that AXA pay that, outside the terms of the 
policy if it was at fault, which is why I considered it appropriate for it to pay an additional 
months DA and for the time Mr X lived in an unrepaired property. I realise that Mr X doesnt 
feel this compensates him enough, but it is a question of balancing resources against not 
unreasonably penalising AXA.
 bullying:
Mr X says that AXA tried to force him to use a surveyor he didnt want.
And he says that it was extremely offensive to tell him that the loss adjuster who was 
responsible for under valuing the claim, making negligent mistakes in incorrectly calculating 
the DA and being in part responsible for not raising their concerns regarding the 
accommodation bureau seriously that resulted in in him and his family being homeless, 
would no longer deal with the claim. Only to find he still was and is referred to in an email 
dated 11/8/22 as an administrative asset. Which he thought was rude and insensitive. AXA 
knew of their problems earlier in the claim, it could have easily, Mr X thinks, transferred the 
matter to another party.
In respect of the surveyor, I think the point made was that Mr X could either accept its 
surveyor or instruct his own surveyor. It was a fine line to tread between accepting Mr Xs 
concerns and keeping the claim under control. I can understand how this came across to 
Mr X, but I dont think I can criticise AXA for trying to keep the claim under control.
Mr X was understandably upset about being homeless for one night which I understand was 
due to a booking error. And I realise that his perceptions of the loss adjuster were that he 
had made mistakes or not followed up his concerns. But again in trying to manage the claim, 
I think AXA acted appropriately in removing the loss adjuster from a customer facing role but 
in keeping him in the background, when he had done a lot of work on the case. I think it was 
a matter for AXAs professional judgment whether it did that or transferred the claim to 
another firm of loss adjusters  the latter of which would likely have caused further delays.
conduct of claims handlers
Mr X says the calls I listened to that appeared to end amicably were not the calls specifically 
mentioned in previous correspondence, as those calls resulted in the adviser hanging the 
phone up on him, advisers promising not to put him through to a particular adviser, then 
keep putting him through to him. This to the point where he broke down and the adviser still 
hung up on him. He refers specifically to calls from 27-28/10/22 and says to put him through 
to someone being made aware he feels bullied by them is rude, neglectful and a form of 
bullying. A number of calls were made due to call backs not being honoured. 
I requested further recordings of telephone calls which AXA has provided, there are over 80 
of them. There is just one call on 27/10/22, none on 28/10/22. This was to an adviser who 
was not part of the claim but was nevertheless polite and respectful (as was for that matter 
Mr X). It ended with the adviser attempting to put Mr X through to an appropriate person but the call ended before that could happen. Other calls did end with the adviser starting to put 
Mr X through but ending before this could happen. I have heard no evidence of calls ending 
with the adviser hanging up or being aware that Mr X felt bullied so didnt want to speak to a 
particular person. I agree that theres no evidence that Mr X posed a threat of any kind. But 
AXA perceived, rightly or wrongly that the number of calls being made affected Mr Xs 
health, and I dont feel it should be criticised for that.
complaint
Mr X says that, given AXA was aware of his vulnerability, it should have called him to 
discuss his complaint more so as they were left homeless in June last year. However, he 
says it was rude and neglectful to write a final response letter and refusing to speak to him 
and not even apologising for his being left homeless, and refusing to accept the family were 
neglected.
All I can say is that it was up to AXA how it responded to his complaint, with the information 
in front of it. I do think that as matters progressed Mr Xs particular concerns may have 
become clearer. But I cant say that not calling him or not accepting particular points was 
rude or neglectful. 
accommodation bureaus fees
Mr X says its not unreasonable to request the fees are looked into especially if their conduct 
resulted in him and his family being homeless. He has been in touch with AXA who has told 
him it does use another agency so it could have instructed that one
I reiterate what I said in my provisional findings. I agree Mr X can ask for the fees to be 
looked into. But to the extent that the bureau was at fault in his being made homeless for 
one night, AXA is responsible and Ive taken it into account in the compensation award. As 
for whether it could have transferred instructions, again that was a matter for AXAs 
judgment at the time. 
deposit
Mr X points out that he did have to go through an additional inconvenience whereby the 
bureau only agreed to repay it provided AXA approved. 
I dont I think I can add anything to what Ive already said about this.,
building settlement 
Mr X has continued to question whether the settlement was fair.
As Ive said this isnt a matter I can look into. It would be unfair if I were to express a view on 
it without full details of the settlement, which was paid to him after the Investigator issued her 
view. And Im satisfied that the interest paid and the compensation award is a reasonable 
remedy for the delay in providing the settlement.
contents settlement
Mr X feels that by agreeing to pay £1,000 to account for inflation in circumstances where 
AXA increased the contents cover limit to £49,125,59 is unreasonable. He also feels that 
interest should be paid on the contents settlement since this could have been paid in 
September 2022. On reflection, as Im now aware of the full amount of the contents settlement, and as the bulk 
of the settlement was paid after our Investigators view, I dont think I can go into the further 
£1,000 figure.
I dont think AXA was in a position to make a full payment in September 2022. Unlike the 
payment for the buildings, an interim payment was made. The reason I said AXA should pay 
interest on the buildings settlement was because I thought it was in a position to make an 
interim payment in December 2022, but made no payment until April 2023.
So, apart from where Ive said otherwise, Im still persuaded by my provisional findings. 
Those findings are now final and form part of his final decision. 
Putting things right
AXA should consider the blinds and light fittings as part of the buildings settlement.
AXA should pay 8% simple interest* on £110,000 from 1 December 2022 until the settlement
was paid.
It should pay further DA of £2,220, plus £2,000 per month DA (assessed proportionately) for
the period that Mr X had to live in the unrepaired property until he received the settlement.
AXA should add simple interest at 8% per year to the above figures from the date(s) they
became payable until Mr X is reimbursed.
It should also pay a further £700 compensation.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require AXA to deduct tax from any award of interest. It
must give Mr X a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks
for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman