DRN-2593343
The complaint
Miss T complains that Zenith Insurance plc handled her motor insurance claim unfairly, and 
that their suggested repairer caused damage to her car.
Reference to Zenith includes the actions of their agents. 
What happened
I dont intend to go into great detail in terms of what happened. The parties are aware of that, 
and the outcome has been largely agreed by the parties concerned. I will cover off the 
basics though.
Miss T claimed on her motor insurance for a windscreen repair in January 2019. Zenith 
made several attempts to carry out the repair but were unsuccessful in doing so. And it was 
felt that further damage had been caused to the windscreen washer system.
Miss T says she had to pay for a damaged washer jet and for a hire car while those further 
repairs were carried out. Miss T said some issues remained though, and that shed like it to 
be looked at by a manufacturer garage.
In May 2019, Zenith agreed to reimburse Miss Ts outlay, refunded her excess and said 
theyd arranged for the other issues to be looked at by a manufacturer garage. 
Miss Ts car was then in for repairs in August 2019. There were issues with some parts 
being unavailable and when Miss T went to collect her car, she noticed even more damage 
had been caused. It was agreed this would be repaired, but Miss T still wasnt satisfied her 
car was in the same condition it had been before the initial claim.
Miss T then took her car to another manufacturer garage and had some rectification work 
done, but not all of it because she was paying for that herself. Miss T would like to be 
reimbursed for this and she still considers her car to require further work to get it to the pre-
claim condition.
Zenith said they werent responsible for any issues arising from the first manufacturer 
garage, because they werent one of their approved repairers, and theyd been suggested by 
Miss T. Miss T disagreed with that, so brought her case to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They felt Zenith were responsible for any issues 
arising from the manufacturer garage, because the rectification work they were carrying out 
all flowed from the initial claim.
And because records showed it was Zeniths agent, not Miss T, who had arranged them. 
The investigator recommended Zenith reimburse the costs Miss T had spent having some of 
the repairs done, and should cover the cost of any further repairs required  to return the car 
to its pre-claim condition.
Zenith didnt agree, maintaining that they werent responsible for the manufacturer garages 
work. So, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue for me to consider is whether Zenith are responsible for any damage arising 
from the first manufacturer garages work on Miss Ts car, including anything they failed to 
rectify as part of the original claim. Zenith believed the garage to be Miss Ts usual one 
which she used for servicing her car.
But thats not correct, the first reference to that manufacturer garage came from Zeniths 
agents. And this was all part of their attempts to rectify the issues which arose from the 
original claim. So, I think Zenith are responsible for any issues arising out of the use of that 
garage.
Zenith has not been able to provide anything further to support their position and so has now 
agreed to put things right for Miss T.  I think this is fair. I also think Miss T has suffered 
considerable trouble and upset from Zeniths failings, including some loss of use of her car.
Putting things right
In order to resolve this matter for Miss T, I require Zenith to do the following:
- Refund the payments Miss T made to the garage she used to put right the issues that 
remained/arose from the manufacturer garages involvement.
- Arrange and pay for an independent inspection to determine the cause of the 
outstanding repairs Miss T has identified, Miss T can provide further detail of this to 
Zenith if required.
- For repairs reasonably deemed in the inspection to have stemmed from the work 
done on Miss Ts car by the windscreen repairer and/or the manufacturer garage to 
be completed (or to be cash settled so Miss T can arrange them herself).
- Refund the £66 Miss T says she had to pay due to it not being deducted from the 
manufacturing garages invoice.
- Pay Miss T £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this matter. 
The amounts being refunded to Miss T should include interest at the rate of 8% per annum 
simple, from the dates they were paid to the date the refund is issued. HMRC requires 
Zenith to deduct tax from the interest. If Miss T doesnt think she should be liable for the tax, 
Zenith should provide her with a tax certificate so she can submit a claim for it to HMRC.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Zenith Insurance plc to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman