DRN-3997816
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc is wrongly seeking 
repayment of a Bounce Back Loan (BBL). C says the loan was taken out without its 
knowledge.
What happened
In February 2021, there was a successful application in Cs name for a £50,000 BBL, and 
HSBC transferred the loan funds to Cs bank account. Over the following month, the funds 
were transferred out of the account.
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
Cs sole director said that he didnt apply for the BBL or spend the funds, and that C hadnt 
benefited from them. He said C had been the victim of identity theft. The bank didnt change 
its position and continued to hold C liable for the loan. C therefore brought its complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator looked at all the evidence and concluded that HSBC hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. In summary, she gave these reasons:
The email address given at the top of the BBL application form was different from the 
address HSBC held on file for C. But the BBL facility letter was sent to Cs genuine 
email address, then the documents were viewed on two separate days and returned 
signed from the genuine email address.
The BBL funds were credited to Cs account on 15 February 2021. The first payment 
of the funds out of the account was made on 28 February and five further payments 
were made up to 28 March. The payments were made using online banking.
HSBCs technical records show that Cs online credentials, passwords and secure 
keys havent been changed since the account was opened in 2018. There have been 
no requests to reset online banking.
There were undisputed online transactions made by C in February and May 2021 
from Cs account, using the same credentials.
To carry out the online transactions, a third party would need to know Cs genuine 
details and have access to its directors genuine email. Additionally, they would need 
the PIN and passwords or have access to his mobile phone. 
C didnt agree with the investigators findings. Its director asked for the case to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Im satisfied that the BBL agreement was sent by HSBC to the email address which it held 
for C (and at which we currently communicate with the company). The signed agreement 
was returned to the bank from the same address. Im also satisfied that the BBL funds were 
moved out of Cs bank account by online transfer over a period of just over a month. The 
security arrangements for operating that account werent changed at any time, so whoever 
made the transfers must have had access to Cs email account and the security details or 
the directors phone. Moreover, C made other, undisputed, online transactions shortly before 
and after the same period. From the evidence, I cant see how a third party could have 
applied for the BBL and spent the funds without Cs knowledge.
Cs director has pointed out that the turnover figures given in the BBL application were in 
excess of the companys actual trading figures. But the BBL scheme was designed 
specifically for the extraordinary circumstances of the pandemic, and applicants were 
required to give only a self-declared turnover figure for their business. Thats what happened 
with the BBL application in this case, so I cant say the bank did anything wrong here.
Taken all together, the evidence doesnt, in my view, support a version of events in which a 
third party applied for the BBL and carried out the disputed transactions without the 
knowledge or consent of Cs director. 
For the above reasons, I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably by requiring C 
to repay the BBL.
My final decision
My final decision is the I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman