DRN-3652058
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund money he lost 
when he fell victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill provide an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In February 2021, Mr R made a debit card payment of £5,362.50 to a cryptocurrency 
exchange  M  to purchase cryptocurrency, before it was deposited in his trading account 
with a company (Ill refer to it as B). Mr R has explained that the investment opportunity 
was recommended to him on a social media page he follows. Unfortunately, B later turned 
out to be a scam.
Mr R says he was promised returns by B, although he cant remember exactly what the 
amounts were. He made a small deposit (which doesnt appear to be through his NatWest 
account) and got a small return. He then sent a larger amount  the transaction in question  
and was told he couldnt withdraw it for a week. Subsequently, Mr R realised hed been 
scammed when he tried to make a withdrawal but was told he needed to make a further 
payment to enable this.
NatWest refused to refund the money and rejected Mr Rs complaint. Our investigator wasnt 
persuaded that NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The transaction in dispute was authorised by Mr R using his legitimate security 
credentials. So, under the relevant regulations, hes considered liable for the loss 
unless theres evidence that NatWest could and should reasonably have done more 
to protect him against the risk of fraud and scams and this would have made a 
difference to his decision-making. 
I wouldnt have expected NatWest to have picked up a payment to M (the company 
Mr R paid) as being suspicious solely based on the merchant name, given there were 
no regulator warnings about it at the time of the payment. That said, I find that the 
transaction was so unusual for Mr Rs account that it ought to have triggered 
NatWests systems. And it did, as NatWest sent Mr R a text message to check that 
the transaction was genuine. 
Given the amount involved, and the fact that the payment was to a cryptocurrency 
exchange, Im not satisfied that NatWests intervention  a text message  went far 
enough. I consider it would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned 
Mr R before releasing the payment. I dont necessarily think that NatWest ought to 
have insisted on Mr R visiting a branch to discuss the payment like he suggests. 
I think that a phone call would have been enough in the circumstances.
But that isnt the end of the matter. Causation is a critical determinative factor in 
every fraud case. As I mentioned earlier, Id need to be satisfied that a suitable 
intervention would have made a difference to Mr Rs decision-making. I cant know 
for certain what would have happened if NatWest had properly questioned Mr R and 
given a scam warning before processing the payment. In such situations, I reach my 
conclusions not based on mere possibilities but rather on what I find most probable to 
have happened in the circumstances. In other words, I make my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities  so what I consider most likely to have happened 
considering the evidence and wider circumstances of the case. 
Mr Rs told us that he did his research before deciding to invest with B. He checked 
its website which showed several registration certificates, including from the UK and 
Cypriot regulators. Mr R says he also used an internet search engine and it didnt 
bring up any untoward information about B. He explains that he felt reassured by the 
fact that B was recommended by the social media page he follows, adding that it has 
around one million followers. 
Had NatWest suitably intervened, given there were no regulator warnings about B 
either, any warning it could have given Mr R would have been about investment 
scams in general. But, from what hes told us, Mr R had already done his research 
before investing with B. Also, it seems to me his trust had been gained by B. On 
balance, Im not convinced that an intervention from NatWest along the lines Ive 
described would likely have affected Mr Rs decision to go ahead with the payment. 
Ive also considered whether NatWest could have done more to recover the funds 
after it was notified of the scam. Mr R used his NatWest card to pay M  a legitimate 
company  for the purchase of cryptocurrency, which was duly received. The loss 
hes complained about occurred when the cryptocurrency was transferred to B  the 
fraudulent company. In the circumstances, Mr R wouldnt have been able to claim 
that he didnt receive the goods or services paid for from his NatWest account; that 
being the purchase of the cryptocurrency. The fact that his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to a scammer doesnt give grounds for a chargeback against M  the 
only merchant that the chargeback could have been raised against.
In summary, I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr R. Not least 
because the matter has been ongoing for some time. But in the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that any further discussion with NatWest would have stopped him from going 
ahead with the payment. Im also not satisfied that there were chargeback rights to 
subsequently attempt the recovery of funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman