DRN-2669655
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr P says he was solicited by a firm who Ill refer to as T to transfer funds to a false and 
fictitious trading account. T claimed to have the ability to offer and trade with regulated 
financial tools, such as contracts for differences (CFDs), indices, binary options, 
commodities, etc. and provide financial advice. 
Mr P transferred £6,200.70 on 5 April 2019 and £10,000 on 8 April 2019 from his bank 
account with B to the account details provided by T. The beneficiary account was held with 
HSBC. 
When Mr P realised, hed likely been the victim of a scam, he reported the matter to B, who 
contacted HSBC. Following its investigations HSBC responded to advise no funds remained 
to be returned. 
Mr P complained to HSBC that one of its accounts had been used to launder proceeds 
which had been illegally obtained and questioned its adherence to its customer due diligence 
(CDD) and anti-money laundering (AML) obligations. He asked HSBC to reimburse his 
loss.
HSBC whilst sympathetic to Mr Ps situation said it was unable to provide compensation or 
reimburse his loss as it had carried out required due diligence checks during account 
opening and responded appropriately to B upon notification of authorised push payment 
(APP) fraud. 
Mr P remained unhappy. The complaint was referred to our service and one of our 
investigators didnt recommend that HSBC needed to do anything further. She was satisfied 
HSBC couldnt reasonably have done more to prevent, or respond, to the alleged APP fraud.  
Mr P disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Let me say, first of all, I do sympathise with the situation in which Mr P has found himself. I 
appreciate he acted in good faith when making the payments. But ultimately Mr P has 
primarily suffered his loss as a result of the beneficiarys actions. It would only be fair for me 
to tell HSBC to reimburse Mr P if I think its acts or omissions either caused or failed to 
prevent the loss.
HSBC has shared relevant information with this service in confidence to allow us to 
discharge our investigatory functions and has provided that which is necessary for the 
determination of this complaint. But Im also limited as to how much of this I can share for 
the same reasons as HSBC. But Id like to assure Mr P Ive carefully reviewed everything 
before reaching my decision. 
I appreciate Mr P feels HSBC should refund his loss as one of its accounts has been used to 
launder illegally obtained funds. But an account later found to have been utilised to 
misappropriate funds doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund nor does it 
mean that the recipient bank reasonably failed to prevent the loss. Amongst my 
considerations are:
- whether the beneficiary account was correctly opened; 
- whether at the time the bank ought reasonably to have known that the account being 
opened would later be used fraudulently;
- whether the bank could and should have intervened in the context of suspiciously 
unusual or uncharacteristic activity;
- whether any intervention would have made a difference, preventing some or all of 
Mr Ps losses.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied HSBC didnt miss an opportunity to 
prevent Mr Ps loss when opening the account. From the information HSBC has provided the 
beneficiary account was opened correctly, and I dont think that there was anything at the 
time that reasonably couldve alerted HSBC that the account it was opening would later be 
used to misappropriate funds. 
Ive carefully considered whether there was anything prior to Mr Ps notification that ought to 
have alerted HSBC to the possibility of fraud. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that there was 
nothing significantly suspicious or uncharacteristic about the operation of the account which 
wouldve reasonably resulted in HSBC having valid fraud concerns both, prior to Mr Ps 
funds crediting the beneficiary account and during the time the funds were paid away. So, 
overall, I dont think there has been a failing nor do I think any intervention wouldve likely 
resulted in the prevention of Mr Ps loss. 
 
Im also satisfied that HSBC responded appropriately when notified of the alleged APP fraud. 
Unfortunately, however, by the time HSBC had been told that Mr Ps payment had been 
made as a result of a scam, Mr Ps funds had already left the beneficiary account. So I dont 
think there were any failings here that prevented Mr P recovering his money.
I also note in his submissions Mr P has said that by not reporting the matter to the police 
HSBC are covering for their account holder. I can understand why Mr P might feel this way 
but, in such circumstances, it would be for Mr P as the victim of the crime to report the 
incident to the appropriate authorities  not HSBC.   My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ps loss, I do not 
uphold this complaint or make any award against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman