DRN-3684210
The complaint
Ms W, through her representative - N, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt 
do enough to protect her account when she made large payments between 2014 and 2016.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
I understand N has found three further payments from Ms Ws account in 2018 that he has 
concerns over. But as these were not raised with or considered by NatWest before it issued 
its final response, they dont form part of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
As the payments in question were made by Ms W between 2014 and 2016, little 
information is now known about what happened at that time. Unfortunately, due to her 
health, Ms W isnt able to provide testimony on what went on. And NatWest doesnt hold 
records that cover any conversations around the payments. But I wouldnt necessarily 
expect it to have branch notes or telephone banking recordings going back that far. 
Its accepted by N that NatWest may have questioned Ms W about the payments at the 
time. And it isnt known how she wouldve responded or whether she wouldve listened to 
any warnings if they were given. I accept we dont know if it did do this, but it isnt 
reasonable to conclude that, as it cant provide what it did or didnt do between eight and 
six years ago, it failed to act to such a degree that Ms W is now reimbursed over 
£70,000. Afterall they may have had detailed conversations and she may have been 
confident and adamant that she wanted to go ahead at the time. 
I accept from the evidence N has provided that it is very likely that at least some of the 
payments in question did got to scammers. But the requirements on a bank to do checks 
and guard for fraud werent the same when these payments were made as they are now. 
And as above, we cant be certain that a conversation wasnt had around the payments 
and Ms W then still wanted to go ahead. Afterall, NatWest wouldnt have provided any 
investment advice, just warned Ms W of the risks and what to consider.
N has provided articles to support his concerns about the payees. But both the articles 
post-date the payments Im considering. And at that time I wouldnt have expected 
NatWest to do a wide-ranging internet search and/or read newspaper articles before 
actioning a payment Ms W wanted to make.
N says that Ms Ws health and mental situation play an important factor in this case. And 
I accept that this may be what made her vulnerable to scams. But there is too much 
uncertainty over what happened in this case for me to fairly uphold it. I fully accept why N 
is concerned over the payments, but we cant know what was said at the time or how 
Ms W presented when she made the payments. So while I accept she had 
vulnerabilities, this doesnt mean I can uphold the complaint now being brought. 
N has also raised concerns about NatWest not contacting him regarding these 
payments. But it wasnt until years later that he had authority to discuss Ms Ws account. 
I cant see that NatWest would have had severe concerns at the time of the payments. 
But even if it had, it wouldnt have been appropriate for branch staff to then discuss these 
with N. Afterall, despite his close relationship with Ms W, she chose not to discuss these 
payments with him when she was making them.
I understand this will be disappointing to N as he is looking to act in Ms Ws best interests, 
but we dont hold enough evidence to support his complaint that NatWest made any errors in 
processing these payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman