DRN-1696901
The complaint
Mr M complains that the Central Claims Group Limited (CCG) has charged him a fee for 
representing him in a complaint about mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In September 2018 Mr M instructed CCG to pursue a PPI mis-sale claim against a lender on 
his behalf. A few months later the lender upheld Mr Ms complaint and paid him over £2,000 
compensation.
In April 2019 CCG sent Mr M an invoice for its fee of 20% of the settlement plus VAT. Mr M 
disputed owing CCG the money. He said hed contacted the lender about mis-sold PPI 
directly as he hadnt received any communication from CCG for months. He provided a copy 
of a letter from the lender that said CCG wasnt entitled to any of the PPI refund Mr M had 
been awarded. The letter said CCG was not registered as Mr Ms appointed representative 
because it didnt have a valid letter of authority (LOA). Mr M said CCG was not entitled to 
any funds because no work was done by it. 
CCG said it was entitled to its fee. It had sent paperwork to the lender for a PPI search as 
soon as it had received the signed documents back from Mr M. A couple of weeks later the 
lender told CCG there was PPI on the relevant account, and CCG phoned Mr M to get 
further information to progress his complaint. It then took Mr Ms complaint to the lender on 
his behalf. 
The lender then wrote to CCG saying the LOA was invalid. CCG contacted Mr M several 
times to ask him to sign another LOA but he didnt do so. CCG said it didnt believe the LOA 
was invalid but even if it was, it wouldnt mean that CCG would lose the right to claim its fee. 
Under its terms and conditions, Mr M had an obligation to sign and return documentation to 
help CCG pursue his claim.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She said Mr M had signed CCGs terms and conditions and a LOA in September 2018. 
There was nothing to suggest Mr M had cancelled his contract with CCG. The lender had 
sent CCG and Mr M letters saying that a new LOA needed to be signed. CCG had contacted 
Mr M several times between October 2018 and March 2019 asking for information to 
progress his complaint. She didnt think CCG had acted unfairly by requesting its fee as it 
had tried to progress Mr Ms complaint for him. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators opinion, so his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.I can see Mr M signed paperwork agreeing to CCGs terms and conditions in September 
2018. In doing so, he agreed for CCG to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI on his behalf, if the 
lender confirmed he had paid for PPI. 
The terms and conditions set out the fee CCG would charge for a successful claim and what 
would happen if Mr M decided to cancel. They also contained the wording: I/we agree that 
I/we will assist CCG wherever possible to answer any additional questions or provide any 
further information or additional paperwork that CCG require me/us to sign to progress with 
my/our claim.
Mr M says he doesnt think CCG should be able to claim its fee because the contract he 
signed was based on CCG doing the work for him to receive the PPI refund. He feels that he 
did the work himself.
CCG says it issued the PPI search, received the response from the lender, took information 
from Mr M and made the complaint on his behalf.
I can see that the lender wrote to CCG in October 2018, acknowledging Mr Ms complaint 
and saying that the LOA CCG had provided didnt meet its requirements. CCGs records 
show that less than a week later, it sent a new LOA to Mr M for him to sign. CCG appears to 
have tried to contact Mr M several times after that and its noted that Mr M told CCG that he 
would sign and return the LOA.
So, I think CCG did do what it could to progress Mr Ms complaint. It wasnt able to send a 
new LOA to the lender because Mr M didnt sign and return it as requested. 
I can also see that the lender sent a letter to Mr M to acknowledge his complaint on the 
same date it responded to CCG (in October 2018). This informed Mr M that it had eight 
weeks to investigate and give its final decision to his complaint. And Mr M has told us that 
the lender paid him his PPI refund in December 2018. So, I also think that Mr M received his 
PPI compensation as a result of the work done by CCG. 
Mr M has provided a copy of a letter from the lender dated November 2019, saying that CCG 
isnt entitled to any funds. But the lender wasnt a party to the agreement Mr M had signed 
with CCG. So, it wasnt in a position to say whether or not CCG was entitled to its fee.
I know my answer will be disappointing to Mr M who no longer has the funds to pay the fee 
and is on a low income. But hes told us that CCG had offered to agree a payment plan with 
him. So, overall I think its acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
 
 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman