DRN-3743267
The complaint
Ms R, represented by a claims management company, complained because National 
Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund her for the money she lost when she was the victim 
of a romance scam.
NatWest refunded some of Ms Rs money, but she wants more to be refunded to her.
What happened
Ms R says that in February 2021, she received messages on social media from a man who 
said he was a famous film actor abroad. As well as messages, she spoke to him on the 
phone. After three months, he told Ms R that he had fallen on hard times financially. He said 
he needed money for his next film, and also for medical treatment. As Ms R was originally 
from the same country, she said she knew that in that country medical treatment and 
hospital stays did have to be paid for.
Ms R started to make multiple payments, starting on 1 April 2021. Initially she withdrew £150 
in cash which she sent through an international money transfer organisation. She sent some 
more payments, then she sent money to an account abroad which was in the name of 
someone whom the man said was his friend. Ms R said the man told her he couldnt receive 
the money into an account in his own name because he was worried about his reputation as 
an actor.
Later, she said the man told her that his young daughter had a serious medical condition 
which he couldnt pay for, and also that a friend had been in an accident and needed urgent 
medical care.
By 17 May Ms R had made six payments totalling just under £3,500. On 17 May she went to 
a branch, to make more payments totalling just under £10,500. The branch asked Ms R 
specific anti-fraud questions under NatWests customer protection checklist. These included 
warning that relationships where the customer had never met the individual face to face 
often result in a request to send money urgently to help, and that this was a scam, no matter 
how convincing the relationship might seem. In line with the checklist, branch staff went on 
to ask whether Ms R was making the proposed payment to someone shed never seen face 
to face. Ms R said no, and told the branch that shed met the person she was sending the 
money too, face to face. She also said they were to a friend shed previously sent money to, 
and that she knew the recipient well, so she was comfortable that it was genuine. The 
branch provided scam advice, but because of what Ms R had said, it didnt stop the 
payments. There was a further branch payment, with the same scam checklist and same 
replies, on 21 May.
Ms R continued to make further payments. From 27 May onwards, the payments were much 
larger, around £10,000 each time. From that point onwards, she also made them by phone 
and online banking instead of by card and in person at the branch. By 28 June, Ms R had 
sent £115,254.81.
On 30 June, Ms R contacted NatWest to say that shed been scammed. She told them what 
the man had said to her. When she told NatWest that the man had told her he couldnt 
receive the money into an account in his own name because he was worried about his 
reputation as an actor, NatWest asked how anyone would know what went into his account. 
Ms R said there was a lot of corruption in that country and people would accept bribes. She 
also said that shed told her friends and family that she was talking to the famous actor, but 
didnt tell them she was paying money because it was none of their business. Ms R told 
NatWest that shed become aware she was a victim of a scam when she had a phone call 
from someone in the country abroad, saying he was a friend of the person shed been 
paying and it was a scam. NatWest noted that Ms R had been in that country herself, and 
asked if shed gone to meet the man. Ms R said shed been in that country, but a long way 
away. 
NatWest contacted the banks which had received the money, to see if anything was left in 
the accounts to which the payments had been sent. It was told that £3,829.27 was still there, 
and that was transferred back to Ms R on 2 July.
On 5 August, NatWests investigations team told Ms R that it hadnt been able to recover any 
more money from recipient banks. It also said that it was declining her claim for a refund for 
the rest of the money. 
Ms R complained on 4 February 2022. NatWest reviewed the claim again. 
In NatWests final response letter on 22 February, it said that it was sorry that Ms R had 
been the victim of a scam. But it said that when Ms R had made some of the payments, 
shed have received a warning message, which shed ticked a box to say that shed read. So 
NatWest said that all it could do would be to contact the receiving bank which it had done.
NatWest also said it had considered whether Ms R showed the right level of care when 
paying the money  in other words, whether shed had a reasonable basis to believe the 
payments were for a legitimate reason. It explained that as the payments went to an 
international recipient, the protection of a code called the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) didnt apply. And it said that for the transactions made in the branch, it had looked at 
a Banking Protocol, which requires the bank to consider whether a transaction is out of 
character and unusual. The branch had asked Ms R questions and given scam advice  but 
Ms R had said shed met the recipient face to face, and that the payments were to a friend 
shed sent money to before, and she was comfortable that they were genuine. So the branch 
had allowed the payments to go through.
But NatWest went on to say that the change to online banking on 27 May for £10,000 could 
have been considered unusual enough to trigger an alert. And if NatWest had intervened at 
that point, it could have provided some more scam guidance. But NatWest didnt think it 
could have stopped Ms R making the payments, because she hadnt taken heed of her sons 
advice to stop making the payments. So NatWest decided it would refund her for 50% of the 
13 transactions between 27 May and 28 June, which had totalled £96,999.98. So NatWest 
paid her £48,499.99 on 22 February.
Ms R, represented by a claims management company, wasnt satisfied and contacted this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. He said the first six payments wouldnt have 
seemed unusual to NatWest. On the seventh payment, in the branch, NatWest staff had 
given her scam advice and asked questions. Ms R had said shed met the recipient and 
knew him well  when that wasnt the case. Shed also said the payment wasnt for an 
investment  when shed believed that part of it was for to invest in the mans next film. So the investigator thought NatWest had asked reasonable questions, and couldnt have done 
more to prevent the loss. He also said he thought that given that Ms R hadnt made checks 
and had given misleading information to NatWest, he thought shed contributed to the loss. 
He said that even if hed thought NatWest should have intervened  and if hed thought this 
would have prevented the loss - hed have suggested a 50% deduction anyway for Ms Rs 
contributory fault.
Ms Rs representative wasnt satisfied. In summary, the representative said that NatWest 
hadnt intervened sufficiently. It should have alerted NatWest when Ms R told the branch she 
was sending money to a friend, as it was a large amount, and also when shed said shed 
sent money to the same person before. The representative also said that the account of the 
responses had been input by NatWest, so that didnt prove what Ms R had actually said. The 
representative said that the wording of the standard questions related to invoice scams, not 
romance scams, and all the questions were closed questions, with no effort to ask in detail 
about the relationship.
Our investigator asked the representative why Ms R had given NatWests branch staff the 
answers she did. He also asked for copies of the social media communication between Ms R 
and the scammer. Ms Rs representative didnt reply. 
The investigator told the representative that he didnt think there was enough to say NatWest 
could have prevented the scam. In view of the answers Ms R gave, there wasnt enough for 
NatWest to have been concerned about  and even if it had probed further, there was no 
reason to believe Ms R would have been truthful in her replies. Shed twice confirmed she 
was paying a trusted friend whom shed met face to face, and after having been warned 
about scams.
Ms R asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Definitions and regulations
A scam is where a customer was deceived into making a payment to another person for 
what they thought were legitimate purposes, but turned out to be fraudulent. The scam which 
Ms R says she experienced is called an Authorised Push Payment (APP), which is where 
the customer makes a payment themselves because they were tricked into doing so by a 
scammer.
There are regulations governing disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. Here, its 
not disputed that Ms R authorised the payments. So the starting point is that NatWest 
wouldnt be liable as Ms R authorised the payment  but NatWest was under a range of 
other duties and obligations at the time. Broadly summarised, it was expected to look out for 
payments that were unusual or out of character, with the aim of preventing customers from 
falling victim to fraud and scams. 
Could NatWest have done more to prevent the payments?
Ms R made the earliest payments by cash, which she then sent using the international 
money transfer business, and card. These were for relatively small  amounts, and the first two of the larger ones were made in the branch on 17 May 2021. I dont consider there was 
any reason why NatWest should have picked up that the first six payments were possible 
scams. Ms R carried out many transactions on her account, and these, for amounts such as 
£150, wouldnt have been suspicious.
The value of the payments increased significantly when Ms R went to a branch on 17 May. 
Ive read the checklist which the branch went through with her, before allowing the payments 
to go through. This included the branch giving specific scam warnings. And Ms Rs answers, 
which Ive set out above, meant that NatWest couldnt stop the payments. Ms Rs answers 
on this occasion, and what she said when she reported the scam later, were different. So 
she hadnt told the truth on one of these occasions. I find that there was nothing NatWest 
could have done to prevent the 17 May or 21 May payments in view of what Ms R told them.
The pattern of payments changed again on 27 May, when Ms R started making online 
payments, instead of cash, card or branch payments. Its the change to online payments 
which led NatWest to conclude that its systems should have triggered an alert so that the 
payment was stopped until it could have spoken to Ms R and provided further scam advice.
I agree that at that point NatWest should have put a stop on the payment and contacted Ms 
R again with scam advice, as the payments were unusual for Ms Rs account. The history of 
the account shows much smaller transactions, and much smaller balances, but there had 
been a large credit into the account prior to the transactions which enabled these larger 
payments to be made. 
But I also have to take into account whether or not this would have made any difference. 
Ive borne in mind that when the branch asked Ms R about the 17 May and 21 May 
payments, shed given answers which meant NatWest didnt stop the payments. Banks need 
to strike a balance between trying to prevent fraud, and unnecessarily inconveniencing 
customers who try to make legitimate payments. This means that I dont agree with Ms Rs 
representatives argument that the questions which NatWest asked Ms R were insufficient 
and the branch should have delved in more detail into Ms Rs perceived relationship. And in 
any event, however intrusively the branch had asked questions, I dont think this would have 
made any difference, given the responses Ms R was making. 
I also think its more likely than not that, if NatWest had queried the start of online 
transactions just 10 days later, Ms R would have given the same answers, and the 27 May 
payment and the subsequent ones would have gone ahead.
Contributory negligence
Ive looked at whether Ms R ought reasonably to have known that this was a scam, and 
whether her actions showed a lack of care which contributed towards the losses. This is 
called contributory negligence.
In the circumstances of this case, I find that there were multiple factors that demonstrated 
Ms R acted carelessly: 
- Shed had specific scam warnings and direct face-to-face questions from NatWest;
- Neither Ms R, nor her representative when asked by this service, have explained why 
she gave the branch the answers that she did;
- Its also recorded that Ms Rs son had warned her not to make the payments;
- Ms R also said that shed had social media meetings with the man, and that he 
looked like the famous actor. But the famous actor would have been much in the 
media. Ms R believes that the scammer used technology to make him appear like the 
famous actor, but I find it unlikely that this would have been particularly convincing; - I also consider that the purposes behind the scam were intrinsically unlikely. Ms R 
said the man claimed to be a famous actor, but basic online searches would have 
shown her personal details about him  such as the fact that he didnt have children 
but was asking her for money for his sick child. And a famous and successful actor 
was also unlikely to be unable to afford medical fees. 
So I find that Ms R did contribute significantly to her losses.  I find that NatWest acted more 
than fairly when it gave her a refund for 50% of the value of the transactions from 27 May 
onwards.
Compensation
The transactions on / after 27 May totalled £93,999.98. NatWest has paid Ms R 50% of this 
ie £48,499.99. 
NatWest also retrieved £3,829.27 from one of the recipient banks, which it refunded to Ms R. 
Its not clear to me which of the transactions this relates to, but I note that NatWest hasnt 
deducted this refund from its calculations of half the value of the 27 May onwards 
transactions. I consider this is more than fair.
So I dont require NatWest to do more and I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman