DRN-2328354
The complaint
Mr L complains about the APR he was offered when he applied for a home improvement 
loan with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr L applied for a loan with Santander, which had a representative APR of 3%. But it offered 
him a loan at 17.9%. Mr L said hed expected to get the headline rate. Hed even tried the 
application a second time, with the same result. He has told us about a number of factors 
which he said made him particularly creditworthy, and which made a decision to offer him 
such a significantly higher APR very hard to understand.
Santander did give our service an explanation of why the APR of the loan it offered Mr L was 
so high. A credit reference agency (CRA) that it had asked about Mr Ls credit file had told 
it that there were concerns over the address that Mr L had given.
Unfortunately, our investigator overlooked this reply when putting together a view. And as a 
result, our investigator suggested this complaint should be upheld, Santander should pay Mr 
L £100 and explain the reasons for the APR. He said this because he felt Santander hadnt 
explained why it would only lend to Mr L with a much higher APR than he was expecting. 
Our investigator felt he couldnt rule out that Mr L may not have been treated fairly. 
Mr L agreed with that, but Santander didnt. It said that our service hadnt taken account of 
the information it had supplied about why the rate of Mr Ls loan was so high.
This case was then reviewed by another investigator. That investigator considered 
Santanders reply to our service in full, and asked Mr L about the information Santander had 
received. Mr L has shown us that this wasnt accurate. Hes dealt with the concerns that 
Santander had. Weve passed the revised information on to Santander. It has now offered 
Mr L a loan at 3.4% APR. 
Our investigator said that although Santanders previous decision was wrong, that was only 
because it had been given some incorrect information. That wasnt Santanders fault. It was 
entitled to rely on the information that its given, and if Mr L wanted to complain that 
inaccurate information had been held about him, he would need to talk to the relevant CRA 
about that. 
Santander agreed with this revised view, but Mr L didnt. He said that the previous 
investigator had clearly indicated the case should be upheld, and he should be paid 
compensation. He said he stood by the facts and information submitted, and he believes 
Santander arent being open and fair. Mr L wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the most recent view issued on this case. 
This case has a long and detailed history. I have considered this in full, although Ive 
summed it up only briefly above. Thats largely because the facts in this case seem to me no 
longer to be in dispute. 
The information that Santander received about Mr L does appear to me to explain why it 
initially offered a far, far higher APR for lending than Mr L was anticipating. 
Im entirely satisfied that the information Santander received wasnt a fair reflection of Mr Ls 
actual position. Im also satisfied that this wasnt Santanders fault. It isnt responsible for the 
data that a CRA holds about Mr L, and its not unreasonable for Santander to have made its 
initial decision on the basis of that data. 
Santander now has a more accurate picture of Mr Ls position, and it has offered Mr L a loan 
at 3.4%. Mr L has turned that down. He says that Santander should offer him compensation. 
Hes suggested a figure of £2,100, based on about three monthly payments for the loan he 
wanted. He also says that it should give him a loan at the lowest rate available. 
I dont think Santander has to pay Mr L compensation in this case. Thats because, as Ive 
explained, it doesnt seem to me that Santander is responsible for the incorrect information 
that its initial decision was based on. So whats gone wrong here isnt Santanders fault. 
And I dont think Santander has to give Mr L a loan at 3% APR. Santander is, broadly 
speaking, entitled to make its own decisions on lending. Our service has intervened to make 
sure that Santander is making that decision on the basis of more accurate information about 
Mr L. But once Santander has that accurate information about Mr L, I dont think it would be 
appropriate here for our service to tell Santander what conclusions it must draw from it. It 
has now reassessed Mr Ls position, and its decided its happy to lend to him at 3.4% APR. I 
think that represents a fair offer, and I hope that Mr L feels able to reapply for a loan on this 
basis.
I know Mr L will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman