DRN-3546104
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Santander UK Plc handled a request he made when he visited 
a branch. And hes unhappy he was told he would receive a phone call but didnt.
What happened
Mr B has explained that he was going Christmas shopping, and needed to purchase gifts. 
But he realised he had forgotten his debit card, to make these purchases. So, he went into a 
Santander branch, and asked to withdraw some funds from his account.
Santander agreed for Mr B to withdraw £50. But, said it wouldnt agree to him withdrawing 
more funds than this.
Mr B felt this was unfair. Hes said he was able to prove his identity  by showing Santander 
his other bank cards, and his Santander mobile banking app. So, Santander should have 
agreed to provide him with the full £500 cash he wanted to take out. And, Mr B said because 
Santander didnt do this, he wasnt able to purchase gifts hed already reserved.
Following this, Mr B called Santander to make a complaint. Hes said he was told he would 
get a call back within three days. But, instead of this happening, he simply received a letter 
declining his complaint. 
In this letter Santander said that it had acted fairly in declining to provide Mr B with more 
funds in branch. It said cash withdrawals without chip and pin verification was something the 
bank could do  but only at its own discretion. Santander felt providing £50 was fair  but it 
didnt feel it should provide more than this, for security reasons.
Mr B said after getting this letter he contacted Santander again, to question why hed not 
received a call. And he was told that someone had attempted to call him. Mr B said he had 
no notification or voicemail to suggest he had missed a call at all. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied with Santanders position on the matter. So, he referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
acknowledged Mr Bs point about him having other bank cards and his mobile app. But didnt 
consider that Santander had acted unreasonably by limiting what Mr B could withdraw, in the 
absence of chip and pin verification.
In terms issues Mr B raised with phone calls  our investigator said she couldnt see that 
Santander had tried to call Mr B at all, even if Santander had told Mr B it had attempted to 
call him. But she considered that as it had written its final response letter to Mr B within three 
days of his complaint, and this is its final position on the matter, it didnt need to do anything 
more. 
Mr B didnt agree. He remained unhappy with what had happened in branch. And he said he 
didnt like being lied to by Santander.
Because Mr B didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B  I can see he feels strongly about the matter. But Id like to reassure 
the parties that Ive considered all submissions to come to my decision. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account. And I can see these say that for 
withdrawals in branch, Mr B must provide identification, such as a card. It then goes on to 
say the minimum withdrawal amount in branch is £50, and the maximum £500, with this 
increasing £2,000 with chip and pin. This term has an asterix attached to this  which says:
There may be exceptions to this. Please ask in branch for more details.
Given the above, Im aware it is possible for Santander to allow withdrawals without a chip 
and pin in the presence of some identification. But Im also aware Santanders terms and 
conditions do note there can be exceptions to this. So, it isnt the case that this will always 
be something Santander agrees to do. 
Mr B went into branch and asked to withdraw £500. And Santander explained it was able to 
use its discretion to decide what it sum it would allow to be withdrawn in the circumstances. 
This is in line with the above terms and conditions. So, Im satisfied Santander didnt do 
anything wrong in this regard  it acted in line with the policy terms.
Ive also thought about whether it was a fair and reasonable approach for Santander to take 
 given the circumstances. And Im satisfied it was. Mr B only had limited identification with 
him  he said he had some other cards, and his Santander mobile phone application. And 
Santander had a duty to keep Mr Bs account safe. I think by providing Mr B with £50, the 
minimum amount, it was doing this. So, it didnt act unfairly  and Im not requiring it to do 
anything more in respect of this. 
Mr B has raised his concerns about not receiving a call from Santander when he was told he 
would. And hes concerned that Santander said it tried to call him  but he had no missed 
calls or voicemails. He feels lied to in this respect. As our investigator notes, Santander 
hadnt provided evidence that it did try to call Mr B. So, I understand Mr Bs concerns here. 
But Ive needed to think about what that means in terms of this complaint. It doesnt 
necessarily follow that I make an award for this situation. This service isnt here to punish a 
business, but to decide what is reasonable to resolve a complaint.
Ive thought carefully about this. And Im not requiring Santander to do anything more in this 
respect either. Mr B had been provided with a final response letter, noting its position. So, 
although receiving a call back, and being provided with accurate information in respect of 
this, could be considered best practice, Mr B was aware of Santanders answers to his 
concerns, and his ability to refer the matter to this service. I dont think phone calls would 
have made a difference to that. Or that it provided such as impact that compensation should 
be provided.My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Santander UK Plc to do anything more in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman