Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2003. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
Mrs R bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into sections 
Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and critical illness cover Mrs 
R has complained about the PPI cover only, so Ive only looked at the sale of the PPI 
element of the package in this decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs R took a mortgage with Halifax in 2002. It doesnt look like PPI was arranged at the 
time. Halifax say that the PPI was sold during a telephone call in 2003 and from what Ive 
seen I think thats likely to be right. As the policy was taken after the mortgage was in place, 
I think its likely Mrs R knew that it was an optional product. 
Mrs R says that she doesnt remember taking it out. But I can see from the internal records 
Halifax has provided me with that Mrs Rs circumstances in relation to the policy were 
discussed. And I also note that Mrs R cancelled the policy a few years later. So I think she 
was aware that she had the policy in place and she chose to take it at the time - although I 
can understand why she cant remember this now.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs R so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and from what Ive seen of her circumstances, I think that it was. 
Mrs R has told us that she wouldve received six months full, reducing to six months half 
sick pay. But the PPI policy wouldve paid out on top of this and for up to 24 months per 
claim  which is significantly longer than she would have received pay from her employer. It 
also offered redundancy cover and meant that any savings she had at that time couldve 
been used towards other essential living expenses at what couldve been a difficult time 
financially. Mrs Rs mortgage was a major financial commitment and her home would have 
been at risk if the mortgage payments were not kept up to date. So I think the cover would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong.
I also dont think shed have been affected by any of the main things that might have made it 
more difficult for her to make a successful claim. Although Mrs Rs told us about a medical 
DRN-1271702condition she had at the time of sale, shes told us that it was under control and she cant 
recall it ever affecting her ability to work. So I dont think Mrs R would have thought this 
would be a main reason she might need to claim in the future. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And as above, I think it was right for her. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means I dont think Mrs R has lost out because of anything Halifax has done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman