DRN-4177963
The complaint
Mr M complains that Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited (trading as Intasure) 
treated him unfairly when it came to his insurance renewal.
What happened
Mr M had a property insurance policy through Intasure, an insurance intermediary. The 
insurer was a separate business. Intasure arranged and renewed the policy over a number 
of years and, a few weeks before the policy was due to expire, they invited Mr M to renew 
again for another year.
However, only days later, Intasure wrote to Mr M to say his policy wouldnt be renewed  on 
account of claims experienced by the insurer. Mr M said this was confusing because hed 
not made any claims, and because the more recent letter referenced other policies as well.
Intasure subsequently clarified that the renewal invite had been sent in error and that the 
insurers decision not to renew actually related to the policies being too commercial. This only 
served to cause further confusion, because Mr Ms policy wasnt a commercial one.
Mr M complained, in addition to the confusion, he didnt think he had long enough to find a 
suitable alternative  he felt Intasure ought to have provided greater notice than they did. 
While Mr M was looking for a replacement policy, another company suggested Intasure 
ought to provide an extension, to allow Mr M enough time to find suitable cover elsewhere.
Intasure agreed a 30-day extension with the insurer. But Mr M remained dissatisfied. He felt 
Intasure hadnt handled the matter with the respect required in the circumstances, without 
the extension there was greater potential hed have been left uninsured for a period of time. 
An investigator here looked into the matter, they felt Intasure had provided a suitable 
resolution to Mr Ms complaint by agreeing a 30-day extension of the policy  in order to 
allow him adequate time to try and find a replacement.
Mr M didnt agree. He maintained that Intasure hadnt treated him fairly and he also made 
clear that he had wider concerns in relation to other customers.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of what Mr M has concerns about relates to Intasures status within the insurance 
industry and their use of just one insurer. He feels that businesses which arrange insurance 
should do so from a panel, so as to enable them to find an alternative where one insurer 
declines renewal. Mr M says thats been his experience in the past with other policies.
But where Intasure sits within the industry, and how it operates overall, isnt really a matter 
for me to pass judgment on. Id consider that to be for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA, 
the regulator). Our service focusses on individual cases and the impact a businesss actions 
have had on their customer. We might share wider concerns with the FCA, but it would be 
for them to determine whether intervention is required.
In Mr Ms case, it is clear that theres been confusion caused. Firstly, by Intasure inviting 
renewal in error, secondly by withdrawing it on the basis of claims experienced (Mr M 
pointing out that he hadnt made any claims) and thirdly by referring to the policy being too 
commercial (when its a residential property).
Furthermore, Mr M found reference to other policies  which were for separate entities  in 
the same letter as his policy to add to that confusion. And he said Intasure shouldve offered 
the 30-day extension proactively, rather than it being given on request.
I agree with Mr M, he wasnt treated fairly during the renewal process. But, Intasure 
accepted that, apologised for it and offered an extension of the policy to minimise the impact 
on him. So, while things went wrong, Intasure took appropriate steps to make up for that. 
They didnt need to go any further than they did. And I note the extension was longer than 
the 14/21 days suggested by Mr M.
Ultimately, the decision not to offer renewal  including the reasons for that decision  was 
made by the insurer. If Mr M considers that to have been unfair, he may wish to consider 
making enquiries with that business. Although I see he accepts insurers are generally 
entitled to review their stance on a policy at renewal, just as a consumer is able to walk away 
and shop around  if they dont accept any renewal terms on offer.
We have a broad remit in terms of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a 
complaint. And that includes consideration of what steps, if any, a business has already 
taken to put things right. In this case, the steps taken by Intasure represented a suitable 
resolution.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman