DRN-4378013
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) declined her
claim for water damage under her home insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
Mrs E reported a leak at her property to AA in early December 2022. The property had
suffered previous leaks, which it had been thought was in relation to wear and tear to a flat
roof. By December 2022, there was significant water damage to walls and ceilings in the
kitchen and laundry room of Mrs Es home. Mrs E then called a plumber who found that
there was a toilet pipe leak in the upstairs bathroom. AA declined her claim as it considered
that the damage related to wear and tear to the flat roof. Mrs E complained about this
decision. As AA maintained its position, Mrs E then referred her complaint to this service.
The relevant investigator upheld Mrs Es complaint and accepted the reasons Mrs E gave for
not immediately contacting AA to report the leak. She also didnt think that AA had carried
out a sufficiently thorough investigation into Mrs Es claim. She thought that AA should carry
out a full investigation to include an engineers visit, to see what help could be offered.
AA disagreed with the investigators view. The matter was therefore referred to me to
make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In August 2023, I issued a provisional 
decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mrs Es complaint as 
follows; -
The key issue for me to determine is whether AA fairly and reasonably applied the terms 
and conditions of the insurance policy in declining Mrs Es claim and generally acted in a fair 
and reasonable manner in its handling of Mrs Es claim. On a provisional basis, I dont 
consider that it did, and Ill explain my reasoning as follows.
Mrs E explained that her property had suffered previous leaks dating from 2020 and she was
led to believe that these related to her extension roof. She said that an insurance assessor
had determined at the relevant time that the damage was due to wear and tear and wasnt
covered by the policy. Mrs E had therefore employed a roofing contractor to seal the flat
roof. However, identical damage happened around September 2022 and Mrs E employed
another contractor to carry out further sealing work and repair. The damage became more 
extensive, and she then engaged a roofing business to seal the whole extension in mid-
November 2022. Shed then noted staining on the arch between the kitchen and laundry 
toom, however the roofer didnt consider that this related to the roof issue.
Mrs E said that as regards the leak in late November 2022, water appeared on the kitchen
floor, near to the extension area. She took pictures of the leak and called the roofing
business, who said that it shouldnt be anything to do with the roof. Mrs E then called a
plumber to look at the problem. He found that a toilet pipe was leaking through the hole
where pipes led through to the kitchen. Mrs E said that no-one could separate where the
roof damage started and ended, and where the toilet damage started and ended, but if it
was from the toilet leak then she felt her claim should be upheld. Mrs E confirmed that the
plumber installed a new pipe and Mrs E then arranged for a new toilet to be installed.
Mrs E explained that when water staining occurred on the extension ceiling, it was similar to
the original damage, so shed immediately alerted roofers. She didnt alert AA in September
2022, because she thought it had already assessed the previous damage and judged it to be
down to wear and tear, and not covered by her policy. She said it wasnt until she; saw the
pool of water on the kitchen floor that suspicion was raised and I responded by getting the
plumber to see whether he could find a cause. Mrs E said shed asked AA what else she
could or should have done differently but hadnt received a reply. Mrs E felt all her responses
were timely and appropriate and in accord with what she knew at the time. She said shed
mitigated the issue as best as she could. She felt that shed taken reasonable action in
response to the information known at each stage, responding to each development as
quickly as possible. She asked recommended professionals to carry out any work they
deemed necessary, and the plumber was happy to be contacted to fully explain the issue.
Finally, Mrs E expressed concern in January 2023 that AA had promised, but failed, on more
than one occasion to provide a decision regarding her case, to then be told that the case
was with the complaints team, and so she may not receive a decision for eight weeks. Mrs E
had been told that her cover was for escape of water. She was mindful that urgent repair
work was needed and aware that the situation and further delay could be damaging to my
health. Shed also asked AA in mid-December 2022 for advice as to whether she needed to
be taking any further action at that point to know for certain that no more water is escaping.
I now turn to what AA has said about the matter. In AAs final response letter, it recognised
this services guidance that, in the event of a claim decline due to gradually operating
causes, the insurer must also show that the policyholder would have been reasonably aware
of the damage occurring. AA relied upon its surveyors report dated December 2022, and his
observation that the issues appeared to be due to an ongoing cause and not a one-off event. 
He thought that the amount of visible damage was too severe to have been from a slow leak
from a toilet fitting. He said that the mould and amount of moisture in the walls, from ceiling
to floor level, indicated that moisture had been affecting them for a long period of time. It was
noted that Mrs E had indicated that the damage was evident before November 2022 and
before shed called her roofers back. AA added that for paint to bubble and mould to grow,
time would be a factor, and even the customer admits she felt this was roof repair issues.
The surveyor indicated that the repairs carried out to the flat roof didnt appear to be of a
high standard. He also stated that PH may need to monitor the issue as all the damage in
my opinion does not relate to a slow leak from WC fitting, seeing as the pipe is above ground
level and no moisture has ever been seen on the tiled bathroom floor. The report indicated
that the policyholders dates had been vague and it appeared to acknowledge vulnerability in
terms of lack of building knowledge and also the policyholders age. In conclusion, AA said
that as the policy specifically excluded damage caused under the gradually operating clause,
it wouldnt cover any of the damage caused by the leak.
The starting point for my provisional decision is the wording in the relevant policy  
documents. I note that Mrs E was covered in principle for escape of water events, including
tracing and accessing a leak and repairing any damage caused to walls, flooring or ceilings
during the search up to £5,000. Loss or damage caused by wear and tear however is not
covered.
The photographic evidence which has been supplied in this case shows significant water
damage in both the laundry room and kitchen. I note that both parties had assumed, up to
November 2022, that the damage was due to a problem with the flat roof. It was only when
Mrs E noticed a pool of water on the kitchen floor that she realised this was unlikely to be the
case and she called in a plumber. He identified the fact that there was a leak from the pipe to
the toilet cistern.I note that AAs surveyor considered that the amount of visible damage was too severe to
have been from a slow leak from a toilet fitting. He also thought that the repair work to the
extension roof may not have been carried out to a high standard. The photograph of the
exterior of the property indicates that the extension is not in the best condition. I find the
surveyors report persuasive to the extent that its likely that a proportion of the damage was
a residual issue to do with the state of the extension roof. However, the surveyor suggests
that a proportion of the damage had been caused by a slow leak. He recommended that Mrs
E monitor the issue as it was his opinion that not all damage related to a slow leak from the
toilet pipe. He noted that the pipe was above ground level and no moisture had ever been
seen on the tiled bathroom floor. This had however been clarified by Mrs E as the leak was
running into the pipe cavity to the kitchen, rather than onto the bathroom floor.
A slow leak over a considerable period of time can cause significant cumulative damage,
and indeed, cause mould and extensive damp issues. Its not known for how long the toilet
pipe had been leaking. This didnt appear to be a visible, obvious leak at the site of the toilet
and was only detected following the plumbers visit. AA recognised that it would need to
show that Mrs E was reasonably aware of the damage occurring. Here, I dont consider that
Mrs E could reasonably be said to have been aware that the damage was linked to a toilet
leak. Its also unfortunate that the condition of the flat roof raised confusion as to cause of
the water damage to Mrs Es kitchen and utility room and indeed, could have contributed to a
proportion of that damage over a period of time. On a provisional basis however, and based
on the available evidence, I conclude that a proportion of the damage, as indicated in the
surveyors report, was likely to have been caused by the toilet leak.
I also appreciate that the nature of the damage and state of the flat roof placed AA in a
difficult position. Its not clear whether it was AA or an alternative insurer that had previously
assessed damage at the property and concluded that it was due to wear and tear. I also note
that Mrs E didnt immediately notify AA when a pool of water appeared on her kitchen floor.
Nevertheless, Im persuaded by Mrs Es consistent and candid submissions that shed
previously been led to believe that the leak in her kitchen and utility room was due to wear
and tear of the extensions flat roof. Shed addressed this issue to the best of her ability and
at considerable cost on several occasions. Having received a previous finding that damage
was due to a roof leak, this would no doubt have been in the back of the mind as the
continuing cause. However, when her roofing contractor suggested that the escape of water
might come from somewhere else, shed employed a plumber. She had therefore acted in a
reasonable manner by calling a plumber who then traced the leak. AA doesnt appear to
challenge the fact that this leak occurred and was addressed appropriately by Mrs E.
On a provisional basis, I agree with the services investigator that AA hasnt done enough to
assist Mrs E under her home insurance policy. I also agree on a provisional basis that it
should now urgently instruct an independent, suitably qualified professional to carry out a
swift and thorough investigation to apportion the amount of water damage likely to have
been caused by the toilet leak, and which would be covered under the policy. This would
necessarily include a comparison of current damp levels with those following the toilet leak
repair as recorded by the surveyor in December 2022. A significant reduction would be a
likely indicator that the toilet leak was the predominant cause of the damp conditions. I would
also expect this individual to make all necessary efforts to discuss and take into account the
findings of Mrs Es plumber as to the rate of flow of the leak, the likely length of time for
which the leak had occurred and his views as to the extent of damage it would have caused.
As to the service provided by AA, its case notes show that in later 2022 and early 2023, Mrs 
E had asked AA for an urgent decision, as she was mindful that urgent repair work was
needed. She indicated that the situation and further delay could be damaging to my health
but was informed that as the matter was now being treated as a complaint, a response was
likely to take eight weeks. The surveyors report references Mrs E potential vulnerability, andI consider that AA should have done much more in the circumstances to assist Mrs E in its
handling of the claim. This is particularly in the light of the fact that the surveyors report
strongly indicated that a proportion of the damage was indeed due to the toilet leak, but it
maintained its decline position in the face of its own evidence. In addition, the early case
notes indicated that AA had understood the points made by Mrs Es. I also appreciate that
on-going investigations are likely to cause Mrs E further distress and inconvenience and I
would expect AA to proceed with this work diligently and to settle Mrs Es claim promptly.
In summary, its most unfortunate that Mrs E has found herself in such a difficult and
stressful situation with water leaking into her kitchen and utility room, causing damp and
damage. She tried to address what she was led to believe was the cause of the problem and
then rapidly addressed the toilet leak when professional contractors eventually recognised
the problem. Whilst I have some sympathy with its position, I dont consider that AA
adequately engaged with Mrs E on all occasions, particularly bearing in mind an identified
vulnerability. Most importantly, I dont consider that AA carried out adequate investigations
into the cause of damage to Mrs Es property, particularly bearing in mind that its surveyors
report stated that not all the visible damage was due to the toilet leak, which strongly
suggested that a significant proportion was due to this.
Im therefore minded to require AA to re-open and fully investigate Mrs Es claim and to
settle Mrs Es claim in an appropriate sum for damage caused by the toilet pipe leak and in
relation to any relevant trace and access element. Im also minded to require AA to pay Mrs
E compensation in the sum of £500 in any event for the distress and inconvenience caused
by the manner in which AA has handled her claim.
In my provisional decision, I asked both AA and Mrs E if they had any further comments or 
evidence that they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AA didnt provide any further information or evidence following my provisional decision. Mrs 
E accepted the provisional decision and didnt provide any further information or evidence.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Es complaint and to require AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited to do the following in response to her complaint.
- To reopen and fully investigate Mrs Es claim in the manner described in this decision
letter.
- To settle Mrs Es claim for water damage in an appropriate sum.
- To pay Mrs E compensation in the sum of £500 for the distress and inconvenience
caused by its handling of this claim.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman