DRN-1579499
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of an unsatisfactory flight.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr L booked a return flight through a travel agency using his credit card. It 
cost £580.98. He says the flight(s) were cancelled and the travel agency arranged for 
alternatives. However, Mr L says these were crowded and no food was provided. He says he 
had to buy his own food. I gather one flight was delayed by two hours.
Mr L contacted BoS and it considered a chargeback, but concluded that he had been 
provided with the flights and this wasnt appropriate. It considered a claim under Section 75 
and asked Mr L for evidence the food wasnt provided and for receipts for the alternative 
meals he had bought. It said he didnt supply this and so it was unable to uphold his claim.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He explained that chargebacks are to be used for non-delivery of goods and services, and 
he didnt think it could be argued that Mr L hadnt taken the flights. As such he didnt think 
chargeback was appropriate to Mr Ls circumstances.
He said that Section 75 might apply, but BoS required further evidence and information from 
Mr L. Without this BoS wasnt able to conduct a full investigation. He thought BoS had made 
a reasonable request and he didnt think it had done anything wrong. He noted that BoS had 
confirmed that if Mr L was able to provide this evidence it would reconsider his claim.
Mr L didnt agree and said he had provided evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The agency agreed to supply flights for Mr L to and from a particular destination. This it did 
and so from that perspective there is no breach of contract or misrepresentation. I have seen 
the original booking makes mention of meals being provided. Mr L says the replacement 
flights offered no food as part of the ticket. That may be the case, but as he is asking BoS to 
give him money for this it is entitled to ask for some evidence.
I have looked at BoSs internal records and I can see it asked for this, but I can see nothing 
to show it was supplied. Nor has Mr L provided this service with detail of the cost of the 
replacement meal(s).
The agency didnt guarantee the flight would take off on time or that it wouldnt be full and I 
cannot see that such matters can amount to either misrepresentation or breach of contract.
As such I cannot uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman