DRN-3204496
The complaint
Miss H is complaining about the amount U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has valued her car at 
after she made a claim on her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Hs car was involved in an accident with a third party. Miss H contacted UKI to claim for 
the damage to the car off her car insurance policy. UKI declared the car a total loss and said 
it would settle the claim by paying her the cars market value. And it initially valued the car at 
£33,600. Miss H didnt accept this value as she thought the car was worth around £12,000 
more than that. UKI reviewed the valuation again and increased it to £34,249. But it said this 
was the highest it would offer.
Miss H didnt agree with UKIs valuation as she said the used car market was very buoyant 
so cars were selling for a lot more than before. She also said her car had a lot of optional 
extras and shed taken out a warranty when she bought the car. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said UKI had valued the car by looking at 
the main valuation guides. And he thought it had acted fairly. He said the guides take into 
account the cars optional extras and he thought UKI had valued the car by using the highest 
figure the trade guides gave.  Finally she said shed spent days researching trying to find a 
like for like replacement, but she couldnt do so.
Miss H didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said the guides dont take into account 
the amount a car depreciates. She also didnt think the guides reflect the book price of the 
car.
As Ms H didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Miss Hs policy, UKI has to pay her the market value of the car, 
less her excess.
The market value is defined as the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make 
and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
UKI has valued Miss Hs car at £34,249. Its said its valued this by reviewing the main 
industry valuation guides. Miss H doesnt think this valuation is fair because she says shes 
spent days researching the market to find a like for like replacement, but she cant do so. 
She doesnt think the valuation takes into account all the optional extras the car had. Finally 
she said the market values of cars have significantly increased and she doesnt think the 
guides take this into account.
Ive taken everything Miss H has said into account  including the statements she provided 
from the independent expert. But I havent seen enough for me to say UKI has valued 
Miss Hs car unfairly. Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work 
out the estimated market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The 
valuation the guides give are based on the advertised prices of similar cars with similar age 
and mileage for sale at the time of loss. The guides also give an option to adjust the cars 
value to take into account any optional extras the car may have  such as Miss H did.
Ive looked at the valuation of Miss Hs car and I think thats fair. Ive looked at the guides 
and they give a range of between £30,800 and £34,000. In addition to this, we have asked 
one of the valuation guide providers to provide a bespoke valuation to take into account all 
the optional extras on Miss Hs car and it valued the car at £34,000. So I think UKIs 
valuation of £34,249 for the car was fair. 
I appreciate Miss H has struggled to find a like for like car due to the limited-edition nature of 
her car. But the terms of the contract dont require UKI to replace the car for Miss H, but to 
pay its market value. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied its valued her car 
fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman