DRN-2818492
The complaint
D have complained that Northern Counties LLP trading as ThirdSectorProtect mis-sold their 
Charity and Community insurance policy. Mr F has brought the complaint to us on Ds 
behalf.
For ease of reading, reference to Northern Counties will include its agents. 
What happened
D took out a charity and community insurance policy through Northern Counties. D initially 
spoke to Northern Counties on the phone but then much of the sale took place via email. 
A few months later, D claimed on their policy after discovering a misappropriation of funds by 
one of their trustees. They said the trustee had stolen money via gift aid - which HMRC 
might seek to recover - and spent around £4,000 on Ds credit card. The insurer turned down 
the claim as it said D hadnt purchased fidelity guarantee cover as part of their policy.
D complained to Northern Counties that their policy had been mis-sold. There was initially 
some confusion as D believed that their claim wasnt covered as Northern Counties hadnt 
sold them all risks cover. However, Northern Counties said D did have cover for all risks 
but that didnt include cover for fraud or theft by a trustee.
D said theyd specifically needed cover in case of a trustee acting fraudulently, as theyd 
experienced another theft a few years earlier. They believed that Northern Counties had 
acted negligently in not letting them know about cover for fidelity guarantee. They said they 
werent experienced in buying insurance and therefore relied on Northern Counties to 
provide appropriate advice. 
Northern Counties said D had initially asked for Trustee Insurance but hadnt mentioned 
cover specifically for theft or fraud. It said it wasnt able to go through every part of the policy 
during the sale but had recommended a policy based on the information provided in Ds 
demands and needs document. It thought the information it had provided to D at the time of 
the sale was clear and set out the cover which would be included. 
D remained unhappy with Northern Counties response and brought their complaint to our 
service. They said not having the correct cover in place meant they wouldnt be able to claim 
for the stolen money and would owe money if HMRC looked to recover from them. They 
didnt think the policy theyd been sold was fit for purpose. 
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think D had specifically asked for cover for a trustees fraud and theft. He said it appeared 
that they had assumed it would be covered under the trustee indemnity insurance. Our 
listened to a phone call where Mr F had said to the insurers agent that hed spent a long 
time reading through the documents. Our investigator thought those documents were 
sufficiently clear to show that there wasnt cover under the policy for fraud or theft by a 
trustee. So, he didnt ask Northern Counties to do anything further.  
 
Northern Counties accepted the findings, but D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. They said theyd been told that all risks were covered. They said their lack of cover 
was due to Northern Counties negligence. They thought theyd made it clear at the point of 
sale that they wanted cover for trustees acting fraudulently. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Northern Counties sold Ds policy in an advised sale. This meant it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice, as well as having a general duty to 
provide information that is clear, fair and not misleading. Im satisfied Northern Counties did 
this and Ill explain why. 
I havent been able to listen to the initial sales call between Mr F and Northern Counties, as it 
didnt record calls at that time. This means its impossible to know whether D specifically told 
Northern Counties that they wanted cover in case one of their trustees acted fraudulently.
Ive seen a follow up email from Northern Counties which says it provided information in 
respect of trustees indemnity insurance. 
The demands and needs completed by Northern Counties identified that D required cover for 
all risks, trustees indemnity, contents cover and money. Given their lack of experience in 
insurance, I can understand why D might have thought trustees indemnity covered 
fraudulent acts by trustees, when only given the cover headings. And I wouldnt have 
expected them to have known the cover they wanted was called fidelity guarantee. However, 
I can see that D spent time checking the policy documents to make sure it met their needs. 
After Northern Counties provided the quotation to D, Mr F said he would discuss it with the 
committee. D then asked Northern Counties to make changes to the contents cover, this 
was carried out and new quotation documents were provided. D then got in touch again to 
ask questions about the money cover and Northern Counties directed D to the relevant 
sections. Northern Counties have also referred to a phone call where D told the insurers 
claims handler that they had spent three hours going through the documents to check the 
cover met their needs. I havent been able to listen to this call, but I think this shows D spent 
a considerable amount of time going through the policy and checking that it met their 
requirements.
Ive therefore thought about whether the information contained in the policy is clear enough 
that D should reasonably have been aware that they werent covered for fraud or theft by 
trustees, given they specifically wanted that cover. 
Within the policy there are heads of cover for money and additional money extensions. 
These set out that cover is provided for misappropriation of money by an employee or 
volunteer and is limited to £5,000 in total for the period of insurance and £2,500 for theft by 
any one person. This section of the policy also covers fraudulent use of credit or debit cards, 
up to £1,000 per card account. 
Northern Counties has indicated that the money extensions could, in principle have provided 
some cover if D had reported the losses within 30 days. However, it said the loss would be 
limited to £1,000. As this is a complaint against Northern Counties, Im unable to comment 
on whether the insurer should have paid that part of the claim or not. If D wishes to pursue 
this further they would need to raise a separate complaint against the insurer. The trustees and directors indemnity head of cover provides indemnity for costs and 
damages which trustees and directors are legally liable for due to wrongful acts. However, 
the policy lists Criminal or fraudulent acts as a significant exclusion. 
The fidelity guarantee section is an optional extra which wasnt purchased by D. The policy 
says that it provides cover for 
loss of money or property due to the dishonest or fraudulent behaviour   
of a trustee, director, employee or authorised volunteer.
I think the policy clearly sets out the cover that is provided under each section. And, in 
emails to D, Northern Counties clearly set out the parts of the policy that D had selected. So, 
even if Northern Counties did make a mistake by not recognising that D wanted fidelity 
guarantee cover, I think the documents it provided afterwards were clear enough for D to 
reasonably recognise that the cover they said they asked for, wasnt included.
As such, Im satisfied that Northern Counties took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability 
of their advice and provided information that is clear, fair and not misleading. So, I dont think 
I can fairly conclude that Northern Counties mis-sold Ds policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman