DRN-2333185
The complaint
Miss N complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited is chasing her for a debt 
which she disputes its entitled to collect from her. She wants it to cease collection activity 
and provide her with the information shes requested.
 
What happened
Miss N tells us that Cabot is seeking to recover payment of a debt. She says that its refused 
to provide her with a deed of assignment to prove that its the legal owner of the debt and is 
entitled to collect it. And that she feels harassed by the amount of contact shes received. 
Cabot told us that it purchased the debt from Miss Ns original creditors, a company Ill call 
R in July 2017. And that small monthly repayments were made until March 2019. It said 
that it had advised Miss N that it wasnt obliged to send a copy of the deed of assignment as 
it had sent her a notice of assignment which confirmed it was the legal owner of the debt. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Cabot 
had acted correctly and provided sufficient information to show it owned the debt. And that it 
neednt supply Miss N with a copy of the deed of assignment.
Miss N didnt agree with this outcome. She raised a number of points of law which she said  
required Cabot to provide the information shed requested or cancel the debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I understand why Miss N would be concerned if she thought an unauthorised party was 
seeking repayments of a debt from her. And asking her to enter a payment arrangement in 
order to do this.
I should say at the outset that I find that Miss N has been very open in the way in which 
shes brought this complaint. And its clear from what shes said that she has been led -   
perhaps I should more accurately say misled - by some items that shes seen on social 
media platforms. It is of course a matter of personal choice as to what sources an individual 
relies upon for advice. But objectively speaking, the risks of acting upon unqualified legal 
advice posted on social media would seem to be considerable.
Broadly speaking, and apparently acting on such advice, her complaint is that as Cabot 
hasnt produced the deed of assignment it isnt legally able to enforce the debt. Miss N also 
complains that Cabot has ignored certain letters that shes sent it and which she feels 
prevents it from continuing with collection activity.
I should say at this stage that for reasons Ill explain below, its not for me to determine if the 
debt is legally enforceable against Miss N.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
This service is an informal resolution service. And as an ombudsman Im required to make 
my decisions in accordance with the rules which are set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) sourcebook and Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000.
The most relevant rules are:
DISP 3.6.1   
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4  
 In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; 
The effect of the above is that I dont apply the law directly  but I take it into account. This 
means my decisions may be different to that which a court might reach if it was able to look 
at the same issue. Although here I believe theres a very high probability that a court would 
reach the same decision regarding the legitimacy of Cabot seeking to collect the debt.
Financial businesses are also required to follow the rules of the FCA. And relevant rules 
relating to this complaint are (my underlining): 
CONC 6.5.2
(1) Where rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned to a firm, 
that firm must arrange for notice of the assignment to be given to the customer: 
 (a) as soon as reasonably possible;
CONC 7.5.3
A firm must not ignore or disregard a customers claim that a debt has been settled or is 
disputed and must not continue to make demands for payment without providing clear 
justification and/or evidence as to why the customers claim is not valid.
I wrote to Miss N with my initial thoughts (which were to the effect that Cabot didnt need to 
provide the deed of assignment in order to justify its attempts to collect the debt). She replied 
indicating that she would repay the debt if Cabot provided the documents to prove it had a 
legal assignment of the debt as opposed to an equitable assignment. Ive already explained that I dont directly apply the law, so Im not required to apply such a 
distinction in determining this complaint. In very basic terms, the difference being that if there 
had been only an equitable assignment, Cabot would have been collecting the debt on 
behalf of R. With a legal assignment it would be collecting the debt on its own behalf as the 
absolute owner of the debt.
Miss N acknowledges that she recognises the details of a debt she owed to R. And Ive seen 
a notice of assignment from R, addressed to Miss N, confirming the debt was sold to Cabot. 
And also a letter from Cabot advising that it had become the new owner. Given that Miss N 
kept up monthly payments for more than 18 months after Cabot acquired the debt it seems 
she initially had no doubts about the legality of its right to collect it.
The FCA requirement is for the notice of assignment to be provided  not the deed of 
assignment. And in 2019, the High Court also held that a debtor couldnt challenge the 
validity of an assignment where the parties to the assignment (here thats R and Cabot) were 
satisfied that the assignment was confirmed and effective, provided that notice of the 
assignment had been sent to the debtor. Both conditions are met in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Im satisfied that Cabot doesnt need to provide Miss N with a copy of the deed of 
assignment to show it owns this debt. And that the notice of assignment is sufficient to 
permit it to seek to collect repayments from her.
For completeness, Ill deal briefly with some other related matters which Miss N has raised. 
She suggested that the failure to supply the deed of assignment amounted to a breach of the 
Fraud Act, 2006. Its not my role to decide if any law has been broken but that particular 
legislation has no application here as it only relates to disclosure of information where a legal 
duty to disclose arises. Ive already explained why no such obligation exists here.
And Miss Ns suggestion that - by sending three letters to Cabot seeking the information and 
asking it to cease and desist from contacting her about the debt - it was required to stop 
collection activity, is again unsupported by legislation.
I understand that it would be stressful to be contacted about a debt  whilst the debt was 
disputed. But Ive seen nothing in the manner or frequency of contact to cause me to think 
Cabot has taken other than reasonable steps in pursuing a debt it owns and which it 
believes on reasonable grounds that its entitled to enforce.
I note that Miss N asked Cabot only to her contact her by email. Cabot has acknowledged 
this and adjusted its system details to accommodate this request as far as is possible. But it 
confirmed that regulations require it to send some information by post. Im satisfied that as 
far as it is able to do so Cabot has tried to make reasonable adjustments to accommodate 
Miss Ns wishes.
In summary, I find that Cabot has acted reasonably in seeking to collect this debt from Miss 
N and the way it has done so. Im satisfied its provided her with justification and sufficient 
evidence to show that its entitled to do so.
Id expect it to continue try to ensure that it offers Miss N a method by which to repay the 
debt sustainably and affordably. 
Im aware my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss N but Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman