DRN-3851641
The complaint
Mr K complains that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Halifax Financial Services (Halifax) 
mismanaged his pension fund resulting in it losing value before he wished to retire.
What happened
Mr K had held a Stakeholder pension plan, managed by Halifax, since 2007. He had been 
making regular monthly contributions into it since that time.
As he was approaching his planned retirement date later in the year, in early 2022, Mr K 
looked at the value of his funds and noticed it had dropped by a considerable amount. He made a complaint to Halifax about the fund performance.
In its final response letter Halifax didnt uphold his complaint. It said the value of the fund 
was reflective of the fall in equity and bond markets, and while the performance of the fund was not what he had expected, this wasnt as a result of investment mismanagement.
Mr K didnt agree so brought the complaint to our service where it was considered by an 
Investigator. And having done so the Investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. He explained that Mr Ks pension plan had a lifestyling condition attached to it, which meant that the risk his funds were exposed to was gradually reduced in the run up to his retirement date. And he could see the funds in his plan were low-risk bonds, and his pension had been managed in the manner he would expect.
But Mr K asked for his complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman, so it has come to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must say I have considerable sympathy for Mr K. I understand how worrying it 
would be to see the value of his pension fund fall significantly just before he needed to take it to provide his income in retirement. But in assessing this complaint I need to decide if Halifax has done anything wrong here, or whether it couldve done anything more in response to the drop in Mr Ks pension fund value. And having looked at everything I agree with the opinion of the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. I know this will be a disappointment to Mr K so Ill explain.
Mr K had held a stakeholder pension plan since 2007.  He described himself as a low risk 
investor. He planned to retire aged 66 in 2022.
When Mr K received his pension statement in early 2022 he saw that the fund had dropped 
in value. When he looked further he saw it had dropped significantly and this caused him understandable worry, and he thought Halifax ought to have advised him what he needed to do. But it is important to note here that Halifax was unable to give investment advice to Mr K. 
All it could do was to signpost him to the funds which were available within his stakeholder 
plan and suggest he get independent financial advice should he wish to switch funds. And I can see Halifax did that.
But Ive also considered the fund that Mr Ks pension was invested in. I can see 100% of his 
fund was in Halifax Gilt & Fixed Interest Pension. This was made up of over 85% of UK Government bonds, and the remainder as globally fixed interest bonds. These are widely accepted as being the most low-risk types of investments, and the type of funds Id expect to see where the fund holder was very close to retirement. 
But unfortunately, even low risk funds can be subject to market volatility and are subject to 
some risk. But this volatility and the resultant drop in value was not as a result of any error or mismanagement by Halifax, and couldnt have been reasonably foreseen. 
So as a result of all of the above, Im satisfied that Halifax have acted correctly here and I 
cant fairly hold it responsible for the drop in value of Mr Ks pension fund. 
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Chris RiggsOmbudsman