DRN-2354177
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt let him take a new rate on his mortgage 
without the consent of his former partner, meaning he had to pay the higher standard 
variable rate (SVR).
What happened
Mr L and his former partner have a joint mortgage. They were on a fixed rate which expired 
in 2016. Around the same time, they separated and she left the property. Mr L has been 
living in the property ever since. Although the mortgage remains in joint names, Mr L has 
been paying it ever since.
When the mortgage reverted to the SVR, Mr L asked for a new fixed interest rate. Santander 
refused, and has refused whenever Mr L has applied since. It says that Mr Ls former partner 
contacted it to say that she didnt want to be involved in any further mortgage loans, saying 
that she would be applying to be removed from the mortgage. Santander hasnt said whether 
or not she has made any applications, but at any rate the mortgage remains in joint names.
Santander says it needs the consent of both parties to apply a new product where  as here 
 it knows of a dispute between them. Until both their consent is obtained, the mortgage will 
have to stay on the SVR.
However, when our investigator got involved, Santander accepted that it might be able to 
offer Mr L certain types of rates. Our investigator thought that Santander should have 
recognised this sooner, and said that Santander should give Mr L a backdated rate, and pay 
£250 compensation. Santander didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This mortgage remains in joint names, and although only Mr L is party to this complaint, his 
former partner is still liable for the mortgage.
Santander points to the mortgage terms and conditions, which say that one party can act for 
both  unless its on notice of a dispute, in which case the agreement of both parties to any 
change will be required.
I agree thats what the terms and conditions say, and therefore that Santander acted within 
the terms and conditions when it refused Mr Ls application without his former partners 
consent.
However, I must think not just about the letter of the terms and conditions, but also about 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Its not in dispute that Mr L is, in practice, the only one paying this mortgage and has been 
since 2016.
Now the mortgage is on the SVR, it means he must pay more each month than before, and 
more than if a new interest was available. I accept that its not easy for him to pay a higher 
payment, and hed rather pay less.
However, I must also bear in mind that his former partner is still party to the mortgage  and 
therefore still liable for the monthly payments, as well as the overall outstanding debt.
If a new interest rate was added to the mortgage, that would reduce the monthly payments 
Mr L is paying. That would be in his best interests. However, it would also tie both of them 
into the mortgage for the length of the rate  and, in 2016, Mr L applied for a five year rate. If 
the mortgage came to an end during that period, there would be a substantial early 
repayment charge (ERC). This would increase the debt that his former partner is liable for  
and also reduce her share of the equity in the property. Given their relationship has broken 
down but their finances have not yet been separated, that wouldnt be in either of their best 
interests. And the same would be true were a product fee to be added to the loan.
However, that doesnt mean that there was nothing Santander could have done to help.
Im aware from other cases that it does have a process for dealing with applications from the 
remaining borrower in cases like this, but it doesnt seem to have considered following that 
process with Mr L. 
And Santander also has rates available that dont carry an ERC. There are two main types of 
interest rates  fixed rates, and tracker rates. All Santanders fixed rates carry an ERC, but 
many of its tracker rates dont. If Santander were to give Mr L a tracker rate, the first 
objection falls away.
All the tracker rates carry a product fee. It wouldnt have been right in this case to add it to 
the balance, for the reasons Ive set out above. But Mr L might have been able to pay a 
product fee up front. Santander didnt explore that with him at the time; it simply turned him 
away.
And from 2018, Santander introduced a new reversion rate, the follow on rate (FoR) which 
existing customers could be moved to. This rate is lower than the SVR, has no ERC and no 
product fee. But Santander didnt consider whether it would be appropriate for Mr L  even 
though he made at least one rate application after the FoR came into existence.
I think Santander could have done more to help Mr L. There were options available which 
would have reduced his monthly payments, without in any way prejudicing the other party. A 
variable rate with the fee paid up front has no ERC; the FoR has neither. If the other party 
were to apply to come off the mortgage, or require the property to be sold, that could be 
done without any increase to the balance.  
Putting things right
As a result of Santanders failure to explore what more could have been done to assist him, 
Mr L has paid the SVR for four years. Looking behind the terms and conditions to their 
purpose, and acting fairly, Santander could have offered Mr L a rate that would have made 
the mortgage more affordable for him without the risk of prejudice to the other party. So 
thats the position it should put him back in now.
Im aware that when Mr L first applied, in October 2016, Santander had two year and lifetime tracker rates available. Mr L wanted a five year fixed rate. That wouldnt have been 
appropriate, because it carried an ERC. But Santander could have directed Mr L to a tracker 
rate rather than just refusing his application. Given that he wanted a longer term rate, and to 
avoid the need for later applications, I think its fair to select the lifetime tracker rate and 
apply it to the mortgage. It would have taken a few weeks to process, so Santander should 
apply it to the mortgage with effect from 1 January 2017.
Theres a product fee associated with that rate. Mr L might or might not have been able to 
pay that upfront; its not easy to tell now. But since backdating the rate will result in 
overpayments to be refunded to him, the product fee can be offset from the refund.
Finally, I agree that Santanders failure to explore other options has caused Mr L trouble and 
upset in having to pay more each month than he otherwise might. Santander should pay 
compensation of £250 in recognition of this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to apply the lifetime tracker rate available in October 2016 to Mr Ls 
mortgage, with effect from 1 January 2017.
The resulting monthly overpayments should be refunded to Mr L for each month in which he 
made the mortgage payment, adding simple annual interest of 8%* running from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of the refund. Santander may offset the product fee for the 
tracker rate from the total to be refunded.
Finally, Santander should pay Mr L £250 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
* Santander may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, if it considers it should 
do so. But it should give Mr L confirmation of the deduction so that he can apply for HMRC for a 
refund if hes entitled to do so.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman