DRN-2731475
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement value offered by Fish Administration Ltd after his 
mobility scooter was stolen.
What happened
Mr M bought a mobility scooter and took out an insurance policy with Fish. But when it stolen 
he was only offered £900 even though hed paid nearly £4000 a few years earlier. Mr M said 
Fish had increased the offer to £1200 but he wants a new model purchasing on his behalf. 
He wouldnt have bought the policy if hed known how hed be treated. 
Fish was sorry Mr M felt let down. Mr M hadnt been able to provide photos of the scooter or 
a serial number to verify ownership. And he didnt have a purchase receipt as hed bought it 
privately. So its claim team had worked with Mr M to assist him in providing enough 
evidence to allow the claim to proceed. 
Fish said the policy information document and policy wording both confirmed that the new for 
old replacement clause only applied for scooters less than two years old. Mr Ms scooter was 
about three years old. So itd reached a market value by sourcing three independent and 
impartial valuations and determined an average value of £900. As a gesture of goodwill Fish 
said itd agreed to increase its settlement offer to match the highest valuation itd received. 
And a settlement of £1200 had been offered to Mr M.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Fishs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She could see Mr M had bought the policy on a non-advised basis. 
And she felt Mr M had been provided with enough information to make an informed choice 
when taking out the policy.
Our investigator looked into the valuation Fish had placed on the stolen scooter to decide if it 
was reasonable. And she felt it was fair and at market value. The new for old replacement 
cover only applied for insured items that were less than two years old. But Mr M had bought 
the scooter privately and he hadnt been able to provide any proof of purchase. So she felt 
the increased offer of £1200 was fair and reasonable. And she didnt think Fish needed to 
take any action.
Mr M didnt agree. It would be impossible to buy the same scooter in the same condition for 
£1200. He doesnt want a replacement. He wants Fish to buy him the same scooter. So hes 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the distress and inconvenience the theft of Mr Ms mobility scooter has 
caused. It mustve been very upsetting and I can appreciate how much impact this will have 
had on Mr M. 
So Ive looked very carefully at everything Mr M and Fish have said to see if Mr Ms claim 
has been dealt with fairly. And if theres anything else Fish needs to do to put things right.
When Mr M purchased his mobility scooter insurance policy in 2019 he did so on a non-
advised basis. This means he wasnt given any recommendations about the policy. But he 
was given sufficient clear information so he could make an informed decision about whether 
the policy was suitable for his needs.
I can see the policy offers new for old replacement cover where a similar make or model is 
provided following a theft or loss, or if the cost of repairs exceeds 60% of the list price of a 
new item. Or the insurer can offer a cash settlement representing the discounted price for 
which a replacement item of similar make and model can be obtained.
But this clause in the policy only applies to insured items that are less than two years old at 
the time of the incident. Fish says Mr M wasnt able to provide much information about the 
purchase cost. Hed bought the scooter privately and no longer had any receipts. 
I understand Mr M purchased the mobility scooter about three years before the theft took 
place. And hes not been able to provide any further information to prove he would be 
eligible within the two-year limit. So Im afraid the new-for-old cover doesnt apply in this 
case. 
As the stolen scooter hadnt been recovered Fish offered Mr M a settlement based on its 
market value. Fish has explained it obtained three independent valuations which provided an 
average market value of £900. When Mr M said that wasnt enough to obtain a replacement 
Fish agreed to increase the offer to the highest valuation itd been given  £1200  as a 
gesture of goodwill.
I realise Mr M says its not possible to get the same scooter for £1200. But I think thats a 
reasonable response in the circumstances. It gives Mr M the greatest reasonable value to 
help him purchase a replacement. And I think Fishs approach to determining the market 
value of Mr Ms make and model of mobility scooter was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Fish has agreed to help Mr M in sourcing a suitable replacement to meet his needs. And its 
provided details of retailers in his area. Fish has also offered Mr M a courtesy scooter while 
things are sorted out. 
I realise Mr M might not be able to source exactly the same make and model as the one that 
was stolen. But I think thats a reasonable response from Fish. Its recognised Mr Ms difficult 
situation. And I think its tried to help him source a suitable scooter as quickly as possible.
I do appreciate how upsetting this has been for Mr M. The theft of his mobility scooter 
wouldve caused considerable inconvenience in his daily life. And I know Mr M is upset Fish 
only offered the market value of his old scooter rather than a brand-new replacement. 
But based on what Ive seen I think Fish has dealt with Mr Ms claim fairly. Its offered a 
settlement at the top of the valuations it received. And its offered to help Mr M find a suitable 
dealer who can help him source a replacement as quickly as possible. 
I hope Mr M is able to replace the stolen scooter as quickly as possible. But Im afraid I cant 
uphold his complaint. Fish has acted within the terms and conditions of the mobility scooter 
insurance. And I think its offer of £1200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I 
wont be asking Fish to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman