DRN-4158317
Complaint
Mr M says that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) unfairly failed to 
help him when he said that he was having difficulty making his payments. Hes also unhappy 
that an application for further borrowing was declined.
Background
Background
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms concerns. She didnt think that Everyday Loans 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
In the first instance, I know that Mr M is unhappy that Everyday Loans refused to provide him 
with a further loan in January 2022. I can understand why Mr M is unhappy at being declined 
for a loan. However, lenders are required not to lend irresponsibly by ensuring that credit 
which is affordable is provided to prospective borrowers.
Each lender will have its own criteria for assessing applications. And Everyday Loans didnt 
believe that Mr M could sustainably repay any further credit. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Mr Hs loan application was declined for any other reason. 
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ms financial position. But it simply wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for me to say that Everyday Loans should have lent to Mr M in circumstances 
where it legitimately decided that it wasnt prepared to lend further funds to him. 
I know turn to Mr Ms request for a repayment plan with reduced payments. Its clear that      
Mr M Has been in contact with Everyday Loans as far back as March 2022 to say that he 
was having difficulty making the payments to his loan. And, in these circumstances, I would 
expect a lender to exercise forbearance and due consideration in line with its regulatory 
obligations. 
Everyday Loans has supplied its contact history between it and Mr M in the period hes been 
a customer. These records show that there were a number of attempts to ascertain whether 
Mr M was eligible for a repayment plan. But each time it carried out an income and 
expenditure assessment with Mr M, the conclusion reached was that Mr M had sufficient 
funds to make his repayments in full.
I can appreciate and understand why Mr M might wish to build up savings in this current 
economic climate. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr M is contractually obliged to 
make these savings payments. Furthermore, as Mr M is choosing to make these savings 
payments, I simply cant agree that it is unfair or unreasonable for Everyday Lending to treat 
these payments as being part of his disposable income, rather than his non-discretionary 
expenditure.  
Overall, Im satisfied that the available evidence shows that Everyday Loans took reasonable 
steps to assess Mr Ms circumstances in order to arrange payment plans. So Im satisfied 
that it attempted to exercise forbearance and due consideration in line with its regulatory 
obligations. 
As Everyday Loans hasnt able to resolve the arrears that have accrued with Mr M, Im 
satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable for it to inform him that he was and remains at risk of 
defaulting on his loan. And I dont think that Everyday Loans has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in relation to this matter. 
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, it has been some time since Everyday Loans 
attempted to carry out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr M. So Id like remind 
Everyday Loans of its ongoing obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration 
should it intend to collect on the outstanding balance on Mr Ms account and it be the case 
that his circumstances have changed and he now qualifies for a repayment plan on the 
grounds of financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman