DRN-3776504
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), his motor insurance provider, unfairly 
deemed his vehicle a Category N write-off after it was damaged in an accident. 
Mr M has several other concerns about how Aviva handled and settled his claim. I 
understand that these have been dealt with in two other decisions issued by colleagues. My 
decision here deals solely with whether Aviva acted fairly when it deemed Mr Ms vehicle a 
Category N write-off. 
What happened
Mr M had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. I understand that on 2 November 2020, his 
vehicle was damaged by a third party. 
Aviva arranged for the vehicle to be repaired at one of its approved repairers (garage A). An 
engineer appointed by Aviva valued the pre-accident market value of the vehicle as £5,600. 
But garage A felt the repairs would cost £5,905.55. As the assessed repair cost was greater 
than the pre-accident market value, Aviva deemed Mr Ms vehicle as a Category N write-off. 
After some discussions about a fair valuation for the vehicle, Aviva paid Mr M a total of 
£4,714. This was based on a market value of £6,733 and a £2,019 deduction for the salvage 
value of the vehicle. It also waived the excess applicable on the policy. 
After Mr M had asked for the damaged vehicle to be returned to him, he arranged for it to be 
repaired by garage A at his own expense. He said that his quote for the work from garage A 
 for the same repair work  for £4,243, which was considerably lower than the quote theyd 
given Aviva. And that if garage A had quoted the same repair cost to Aviva as theyd quoted 
to him, the car wouldnt have been deemed a Category N write-off. 
Mr M felt that his vehicles value had plummeted due to it being deemed a Category N write-
off. He said it had been repaired, was roadworthy and in good condition for its age and 
mileage. He felt hed suffered a financial loss due to Avivas actions. So he complained.
Aviva issued its final response to the complaint on 17 June 2021. It said itd acted correctly. 
It said that it had settled Mr Ms claim on a total loss basis. And that as Mr M had chosen to 
retain the vehicle, the settlement amount had been based on the market value of the vehicle 
less its salvage value. 
Aviva said that Mr M had told them that he planned to have his vehicle repaired at garage A. 
And that it had previously told him that although he could make a private arrangement with 
garage A, it wouldnt get involved with any repairs he decided to arrange. This was because 
Aviva had already deemed the vehicle a write-off and settled the claim.  
Mr M was unhappy with Avivas response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
wanted Aviva to:
Apologise in writing
Remove the Category N write-off status from his vehicle
Compensate him.
Our investigator issued an initial view, on 10 May 2022, in which she considered Avivas 
valuation of the vehicle, as well as Mr Ms complaint about the write-off of his vehicle. 
However, Aviva notified our investigator that this service had already considered the 
valuation in a previous complaint, which we hadnt upheld. As this part of Mr Ms complaint 
had already been addressed, this service is unable to consider it again. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint about the Category N write-off of the vehicle 
should be upheld. She felt Aviva had reasonably relied on their specialist engineers 
recommendations when they settled Mr Ms claim on a total loss basis. 
Our investigator issued an update to her initial view a day later to confirm that she couldnt 
consider the valuation of the vehicle again. She apologised to Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. He made several points, some of which related to 
the complaints which this service had already considered. The following points related to this 
complaint:
- He didnt agree that his vehicle shouldve been deemed a Category N write-off. He 
said that the repair quote garage A had given Aviva was £1,700 more than the repair 
quote hed been given. He said both quotes were for exactly the same repair work. 
He felt his vehicle wouldnt have been written off if garage A had given Aviva the 
same quote theyd given him. He felt Aviva had known about the large discrepancy in 
the quotes and that it shouldve found out why they were different and explained that 
to him.
- He said that his vehicle's value had reduced significantly because it had been 
classed as a Category N write-off rather than being repaired by Aviva.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
I first considered whether Aviva acted fairly when it deemed the vehicle a Category N write-
off. 
Insurers often appoint engineers experienced in this type of work to look at the damage, and 
thats what Aviva did here. 
The engineers are qualified to comment on vehicle damage. So I think its a fair thing to do  
and its reasonable for Aviva to rely on the engineers comments when deciding how to deal 
with the claim. 
Aviva instructed an engineer to carry out a full inspection of Mr Ms vehicle. The engineers 
report from 30 November 2020 comments on the damage. It also contains photos showing 
the damage to Mr Ms vehicle.The engineer also had access to garage As quote for the repair work. Based on the 
engineers determination of the pre-accident market value of the vehicle, and the repair 
quote from garage A, the engineer deemed the vehicle a Category N total loss. 
Given the conclusion of the engineers report, I cant fairly say Aviva has acted unfairly in 
treating Mr Ms vehicle as a category N write-off. 
I acknowledge that when Mr M got a quote from garage A for what he said were the same 
repairs, he was quoted a repair cost that was £1,700 lower than the quote theyd given to 
Aviva. So I understand why he feels that if garage A had quoted such a repair cost to Aviva, 
or if the pre-accident market value had been assessed at the higher amount his claim was 
eventually based on, the costs of repair wouldve been less than the deemed market value.
Aviva feels that Mr M went to garage A as a private customer, which wasnt as part of the 
claim. It said it had settled the claim as a total loss. And that it had satisfied its duties in line 
with the policy. And that it couldnt be held responsible or accountable for anything outside of 
the claim.
From what Ive seen, Aviva took reasonable steps to assess whether the vehicle was 
economic to repair. And that assessment fairly deemed that it wasnt. So I consider that 
Aviva acted fairly when it processed the claim as a Category N write-off, based on the 
information it had at that time. Aviva had progressed the claim in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. And when it agreed to settle on a total loss basis, it had no further role to 
play in what happened next. 
I can see that Mr M feels that Aviva shouldve investigated why his repair quote was 
considerably lower than the one itd been given by garage A. But Aviva fairly felt that it had 
completed the claim and therefore there were no further actions for it to take. 
As I noted, I dont consider that Aviva shouldve considered the second repair quote and 
explained to Mr M why it was different from the one itd been given by garage A. But Ive 
looked at the quotes myself. They are different. For example, the one given to Aviva includes 
replacing the power steering. But the one given to Mr M doesnt. There are a number of 
other differences. These led to the total cost of parts being quoted as £2,804.44 in Avivas 
quote and only £1,655.23 in Mr Ms quote. So Im satisfied that the quotes are for a different 
repair. 
Even if I had evidence that the quotes were for the same repair, I wouldnt be persuaded that 
Aviva shouldve found out why the quotes were different and explained that to Mr M. I say 
this because, as noted earlier, Aviva had no further responsibility after itd settled the claim.
Im sorry that Mr M considers that his vehicle has reduced in value due to it being classed as 
a Category N write-off. But Ive found no evidence that Aviva did anything wrong here. So I 
dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman