DRN-2938337
The complaint
Miss Hs complaint is about the handling of a claim made under her mobile phone insurance
policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited. Assurant uses agents to deal with claims on
its behalf, so whenever I refer to Assurant in this decision, it should be read as including
those agents acting on its behalf.
Miss H is also represented in her complaint by her sister. Again or ease, whenever I refer to 
Miss H in this decision it should be read as including her sister.
What happened
Miss H has held the policy for around four years. She upgraded her phone on 23 February
2020 and registered the new phone on her policy on 3 March 2020. Miss H then reported
that two days later, her phone had been stolen and lodged a claim under her policy. Miss H
says she was at a house party, when she was threatened and her phone and jewellery was
stolen by someone she didnt know. Miss H says she reported it to the police and her
network provider the next morning.
Assurant refused to meet the claim, as it says there is no proof that Miss H had used the
phone after registering it under her policy on 3 March 2020 and before the alleged theft on 5
March 2020. It says it asked Miss H for proof of usage to show the phone was in her
procession on 5 March 2020. Miss H provided an itemised bill from her network provider.
Assurant says this only shows proof of usage for the SIM card and not the phone. In
addition, the bill shows that the SIM was not used at all on the day she took out the policy, 3
March 2020.
Assurant highlighted that its terms and conditions stipulate that it requires evidence that the
mobile phone was being used. Assurant also says that Miss Hs phone was not linked to her
phone cloud; and the proof of purchase email provided by Miss H also shows that she asked
to cancel the phone purchase. Assurant says there is therefore no proof that Miss H was in
possession of the phone at the time she took out the policy and therefore the claim may
have been fraudulent.
Miss H is unhappy with the refusal of her claim. She says there was no usage showing on 3
March 2020, as she needed help that day transferring her data from her old phone to her
new phone. She says calls were made on the new phone every day after that, until it was
stolen and has provided an itemised bill showing usage of her SIM on 1,2 and 4 March 2020.
She feels she has provided everything shes been asked for and her claim has been
declined unfairly.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She considered that Assurant had not
established that Miss Hs claim was fraudulent. The investigator said that the SIM was used
on 1,2 and 4 March 2020, so if this SIM had been in her new phone and the phone lost
before 3 March 2020, shed have had to get another SIM by 4 March 2020. And the network
provider has confirmed the SIM was suspended on 6 March 2020 and it would send her a
replacement. The investigator didnt therefore think there was enough evidence to say
Miss H had not used her phone after taking out the policy. The investigator also didnt think it
was relevant that Miss H had removed her phone from her online cloud account. The
investigator therefore recommended that Assurant consider the claim again and pay Miss H
£40 compensation for the trouble caused.
Assurant does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to
me.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in January 2021. In that decision I set
Miss Hs policy provides cover for theft or loss of a mobile phone. As with all such policies
this cover is subject to certain terms and conditions, including that Assurant will only cover
theft of a mobile phone where proof of usage - after the start of the policy and before the
theft of the mobile phone  is provided; and it may decline any claim where such usage is
not provided.
Miss H has argued that her usage of the phone is immaterial, as it was insured anyway.
However, the reason Assurant (and other insurers) ask for proof of usage is to help establish
both ownership of the phone itself and that it was in Miss Hs possession at the time she
took out the insurance. If it wasnt, and had already been lost or stolen or damaged, then it is
not covered under the policy (and would potentially be fraudulent). As with all such policy
terms, we would expect Assurant to apply them reasonably and not just refuse a claim
because a policyholder cannot comply with a technicality. So, if there were other convincing
evidence of ownership or possession of the insured item and no other factors that might cast
doubt on the claim, then it may not be reasonable for an insurer to insist on strict proof of
usage.
Assurant has therefore made reasonable enquiries and is entitled to ask for the information
about usage of the phone. I have to consider, taking account of all the other circumstances,
whether it is reasonable for it to refuse the claim because it hasnt received that information.
Essentially, in order to succeed in her claim, Miss H has to establish that she owned the
phone, had it in her possession when she took out the policy, and that it was this phone that
was stolen as she reported, on the day claimed.
With regard to the theft itself, as far as I am aware, there are no details of witnesses to the
incident and no evidence that a thief has been caught. So Assurant has been asked to take
Miss Hs word for the incident. Given this, it is important that there is nothing that might cast
doubt on her word.
Miss H upgraded her phone on 23 February 2020. While it appears, Miss H tried to cancel
the order for the new phone a few hours after placing the order, it seems she did go ahead
with it as her network provider has confirmed that she had two handsets on the account. She
apparently swapped the SIM from her old phone to the new one on 3 March 2020 (the day
she took out the policy). Miss H says the SIM was used in the new phone on 4 March 2020
and then the phone was stolen on 5 March 2020. As far as I am aware, no explanation has
been given as to why Miss H didnt start using her new phone straight away.
Assurant has also queried the lack of usage of the SIM on 3 March 2020. Assurant says the
phone could have been stolen/lost on 2/3 March 2020 and thats why there was no usage on
that day. Miss H says she didnt use the SIM at all that day (i.e. made no calls, sent no texts
and didnt use any mobile data), as she was transferring the content of the phone to her new
one. Miss H says her uncle came on 3 March 2020 to swap all the details over using his
laptop. This is possible, though it would not have prevented her from using the phone at all.
Having looked at Miss Hs phone bill, it is unusual for her not to use her phone in any given
day.Assurant has also said the phone was not attached to Miss Hs manufacturers cloud
account, which would allow the phone to be traced and casts further doubt on whether she
used it on or after 3 March 2020. Miss H might have chosen not to add the phone to her
cloud account, but Ive not seen any explanation about this. And it is not clear what Miss Hs
uncle needed to set up using a laptop on 3 March 2020 if it was not to add the new phone to
Miss Hs cloud account.
None of these issues on their own establish anything as regards the possession and usage
of the phone, but they are all relevant to determining whether Assurant is acting reasonably
in insisting on the proof of usage. In this case, the only independent evidence is confirmation
of a purchase of the insured phone and proof of usage of a SIM. There is no independent
evidence of possession and usage of the actual insured handset at the time the insurance
was taken out and a number of matters that raise questions about the sequence of events.
While I have no reason to doubt Miss Hs word on any of these, overall I consider they mean
Assurant is entitled to further evidence before being required to meet the claim.
Assurant has asked for evidence of the date the new phone was first activated and used.
Miss H says her network provider has told her it cant provide any other information about
the use of the handset. From my experience the phone manufacturer can provide
information about when the handset (which has an individual identification number) was
activated and used. If, as Miss H says, the phone was activated on 3 March 2020 and the
contents of her old phone transferred over and the phone set up, this can be confirmed by
the manufacturer. It is possible for some insurers to access the manufacturers records but
Assurant has said it cant do so here and only Miss H is able to obtain this.
Overall, I do not consider there is enough evidence that there has been a fraudulent claim.
However, theres also not enough evidence to establish Miss Hs claim under the policy.
Assurant has made a reasonable request for information and it is entitled to it in order to
consider the claim properly.
It is therefore my intention to reject this complaint, unless evidence can be provided about
the usage/activation of the actual phone handset (and not just the SIM) which establishes
that it is likely it was in Miss Hs possession after she registered it under her policy with
Assurant.
Developments since my provisional decision
Miss H does not accept my provisional decision. She says she has tried to get further 
evidence from her network provider and the phone manufacturer but they are not able to 
provide any other information. What we are asking for is impossible and only the police could 
get it. She is unhappy at being asked for this and doesnt think it is necessary because she 
bought the phone and insured it, so it is covered; the phone was delivered to her and that is 
proof of it being in her possession.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is extremely difficult in a case such as this for me to be certain about what has happened. I 
can only determine whether Assurant has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
policy terms. 
As set out above, in order to succeed in her claim, Miss H has to establish that she owned 
the phone, had it in her possession when she took out the policy, and that it was this phone that was stolen as she reported, on the day claimed. For the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, Assurant is entitled to ask for information about usage of the phone in 
order to verify this claim. I have to consider, taking account of all the other circumstances,
whether it is reasonable for it to refuse the claim because it hasnt received that information.
In summary, Miss H upgraded her phone on 23 February 2020. Miss H tried to cancel the 
order for the new phone a few hours after placing it, but it seems she did go ahead
with it as her network provider has confirmed that she had two handsets on the account. It is 
not disputed that Miss H received the new phone and it was therefore in her possession at 
some point. However, it also has to be established that she still had it after she asked 
Assurant to insure it and that it was this new phone that was stolen on 5 March 2020. 
Assurant queried the lack of usage of the SIM on 3 March 2020. Assurant says the phone 
could have been stolen/lost on 2/3 March 2020 and thats why there was no usage on
that day. Miss H says she didnt use her SIM at all that day in either phone (i.e. made no 
calls, sent no texts and didnt use any mobile data), as she was transferring the content of 
the phone to her new one. In a call to the investigator she said her uncle needed to come 
over with his laptop, so she could sort out her cloud account. 
However, in response to my provisional decision, Miss H says she put another SIM in her 
new phone before her original number was transferred over, which is why there are days 
which say the SIM was not in use. This has not been stated before and there is no bill to 
show usage of another SIM (with another network provider or under a different account) in 
any phone. 
Assurant also asked for a screenshot or other proof that the new phone had been added to      
Miss Hs cloud account, as this would verify this and could allow the phone to be traced. The 
phone can also be blocked via the cloud account and personal data protected. This hasnt 
been provided and theres been no explanation as to why.
 
Miss H has provided a message from her network provider to say the phone itself had been 
blocked, as she requested and a number to call if she wanted to unblock it; and a screenshot 
of an IMEI checker dated December 2020, which shows the phone is blacklisted. However, 
these in themselves are not enough to overcome the other issues highlighted. The phone 
manufacturer should be able to provide evidence of activation and usage of a phone 
registered to a cloud account. Miss H is adamant that they will not provide this. I have seen 
such evidence provided in other cases but even if it is not prepared to do so in this case, it 
means there is nothing to counter the issues raised by Assurant. In particular there is no 
evidence as to when the new phone was activated and first used by Miss H. 
Overall, I remain of the opinion that there is enough evidence this is a fraudulent claim.
However, theres also not enough evidence to establish Miss Hs claim under the policy.
Assurant has made a reasonable request for information and it is entitled to it in order to
consider the claim properly. 
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman