DRN-2572827
The complaint
Mr S  on behalf of Company N  complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly 
declined the companys legal expenses insurance claim.
UKI use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance, so any reference to the 
insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of such 
intermediaries.
What happened
Company N took out a commercial insurance policy (including legal expenses cover) from 
UKI on 19 October 2018. It made a claim on the policy over a year later on 
19 November 2019 regarding a contractual dispute with its solicitor (whom I will refer to as 
Firm E) who it had used in relation to the purchase of several properties. The solicitors had 
issued legal proceedings against Company N because they said it had paid insufficient funds 
to allow for the completion of a certain property transaction. Company N subsequently 
issued a countersuit against Firm E, claiming that the solicitors had failed to complete the 
transaction or request further sums to allow for the purchase to be completed.
UKI declined the claim, however, as they said the dispute had arisen on 26 November 2018 
when the funds first became payable to Firm E. The insurer said that this was within the first 
90 days of the policys inception and so was excluded. 
Company N complained this was unfair as it said it had not become aware that Firm E had 
failed to complete the transactions until November 2019, when it was notified of the legal 
proceedings. Company N said that it was under the impression that Firm E held sufficient 
funds (retained from other matters) to complete the transactions, such that the cause of 
action could have only have materialised when it refused to make payment of the sums 
when later requested by Firm E, which it said it had not received until service of the legal 
claim by the solicitors. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that UKI had fairly categorised 
the completion date as the date of occurrence and didnt think the claim had been declined 
unfairly. Company N disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
The policy terms and conditions state that UKI will not pay any claim relating to the following:
Unless equivalent legal expenses insurance was continuously in force immediately 
prior to commencement of cover under this section, a dispute arising from an 
agreement entered into prior to the commencement of cover under this section if the 
Date of Occurrence is within the first 90 days of the commencement of cover under 
this section.
The term Date of occurrence is defined in the policy as:
For civil casesthe date of the event that leads to a claim. If there is more than one 
event arising at different times from the same originating cause, the Date of 
Occurrence is the date of the first of these events. (This is the date the event 
happened which may be before the date You or an Insured Person first became 
aware of it). 
Company N initially instructed Firm E to assist with the purchase of its properties in 
July 2018, which was prior to the policy inception date of 19 October 2018. So Im satisfied 
the dispute arises from an agreement entered into prior to the commencement of cover. 
In terms of whether the dispute arose within the first 90 days of cover, Company N says it 
wasnt aware of there being any issue with the completion and submits that the cause of 
action could have only accrued when it refused to make payment of the funds to Firm E, 
which was in November 2019 when they served the legal claim. However, the date of 
occurrence is not dependent upon the policyholders knowledge of the issue (as it clearly 
states in the policy terms) and neither is the accrual of the cause of action itself. 
In this case, the dispute has arisen from the alleged failure of Company N to put Firm E in 
sufficient funds to complete the property transaction on 26 November 2018. I appreciate it 
may have been under a different impression with regards to whether the solicitors had 
sufficient funds to complete the transaction. But nevertheless, the solicitors allege that 
Company N breached its obligations to pay the remaining monies on the date of completion. 
That is the cause of action that Firm E is now pursuing so, accordingly, that is the first event 
that has ultimately led to the claim being made in November 2019. 
I therefore do not consider that UKI have acted unreasonably by designating 
26 November 2018 as the date of occurrence for this claim. And given that this date falls 
within the first 90 days of cover, Im satisfied it falls within the above-mentioned exclusion 
and has been fairly declined by the insurer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S  on behalf of 
Company N  to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman