DRN-4244744
The complaint
Ms P and Mr W say that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE) unfairly handled their 
claims under section 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  
What happened
In or around January 2006, Ms P and Mr W agreed to purchase a trial membership in a 
timeshare product with a supplier who Ill refer to as C. 
In or around July 2006, Ms P and Mr W attended a meeting and presentation with C in which 
they agreed to upgrade their trial membership to a full points-based membership with C. The 
cost of the points-based membership was £13,441, less a £4,595 trade-in allowance against 
their existing trial membership. The balance of £8,846 was funded with a fixed sum loan in 
their joint names - provided by GE. The loan was repaid by Ms P and Mr W from their 
personal savings in November 2006.
In or around August 2007, Ms P and Mr W attended a further meeting and presentation with 
C in which they agreed to upgrade their membership by purchasing a further 501 points. The 
total cost of £5,947 was funded with a fixed sum loan in their joint names  also provided by 
GE.
On 25 September 2018, using a professional representative (the PR), Ms P and Mr W 
submitted claims to GE under the CCA. The original letter of claim runs to several pages. 
So, it isnt practical to repeat them in full here. But I will provide a summary of the key points 
below.
The PR allege that Ms P and Mr W purchased the Points Membership and points upgrade 
having relied upon misrepresentations made by C and, under section 75 of the CCA (S75), 
GE is jointly liable for those misrepresentations. The PR also suggested that those 
misrepresentations, amongst other things, led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
section 140A of the CCA (S140A).
In particular, the PR allege that the following statements of misrepresentation were made by 
C as benefits and features associated with the purchase of the timeshare points product:
Ms P and Mr W could divest themselves from the product by selling or renting out the 
rights purchased;
they would be able to holiday at any resort they wished in high season with 
accommodation of the same standard as experienced during they were currently 
enjoying;
annual management fees would only increase in line with inflation; and
a compliance officer was presented as being impartial.
The PR also thought thered been various regulatory and legislative breaches together with 
other reasons why the purchases had led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
S140A. In particular: 
the obligation to pay Management Charges for the duration is unfair under 
Regulation 5 of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999 
(UTCCRs).
Ms P and Mr W were not informed they could exit the Points Membership by simply 
giving notice; and
at no point was an assessment of Ms Ps and Mr Ws credit worthiness completed 
resulting in the decision to lend being irresponsible.
GE werent able to locate records of Ms P and Mr Ws loans with them. So, with their claim 
remaining unresolved, the PR referred their complaint to this service.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator thought Ms P and Mr Ws 
claim had been brought too late under the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA) 
and didnt think there was any reason that the limitation could be postponed. Our investigator 
also couldnt find any evidence to suggest the loans were unaffordable for Ms P or Mr W, or 
that there was any other reason to uphold their complaint.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings. Whilst they accepted that the claim had 
been made beyond the usual limitation, given Ms P and Mr Ws date of knowledge was 
several years later they believe the time limit should be extended under section 32 of the LA 
(S32). In particular they believe C had deliberately concealed aspects of the product 
including:
that members could exit their membership at any time by giving 28 days notice; and
the term of the Points Membership was in perpetuity, contrary to Spanish Law, and 
therefore unlawful.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Ms P and Mr Ws complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook means Im 
required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Ms P and 
Mr W paid for the timeshare products using restricted use fixed sum loan agreements. So it 
isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Ms P and Mr W are afforded the 
protection offered to borrowers like them under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken 
this section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Ms P, Mr W and GE arising out of 
the credit agreements (taken together with any related agreements). And because the 
products purchased were funded under the credit agreements, theyre deemed to be related 
agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But as its 
relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Ms P and Mr Ws complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This is 
because the original transactions - the purchases funded by a loans with GE - took place in 
2006 and 2007. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its relevant law, 
Ive considered the effect this might also have.
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. 
Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their 
right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address in my 
decision every single point thats been made. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.
Was the claim of misrepresentation under S75 made in time?
The PR says the supplier misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreements and 
benefits to Ms P and Mr W when they agreed to purchase the products. And they believe 
this could bring cause for a claim under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue of any 
enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Ms P and Mr W had to 
make a claim within six years of when they entered into the purchase contract and credit 
agreement. The PR confirm these took place in July 2006 and August 2007. Thats because 
this is when they say Ms P and Mr W lost out having relied upon the alleged false 
statements of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the PR to GE in September 
2018. But as this was more than six years after the purchase was completed and Ms P and 
Mr W first say they lost out; I believe a court is likely to find that their claim falls outside of the 
time limit permitted in the LA. 
Was the unfair relationship claim under S140A made in time?
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is also 
six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, the High 
Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be determined by having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination. In that case, that was the date of the trial or otherwise the date 
the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Ms P, Mr W and GE continued while the finance agreements remained 
live. So, that relationship only ended once the agreements ended and any borrowing under 
them was repaid.
The PR said that Ms P and Mr W paid off their borrowing from their savings, in November 
2006 and December 2007. And as this was more than six years before their claim was 
submitted to GE, I believe its likely a court would find that their S140A claim also falls 
outside of the time limit permitted in the LA.
Could the limitation period be postponed?
The PR argue that the limitation period should be extended under Section 32 of the LA 
because Ms P and Mr W werent made aware they could relinquish the timeshare by giving 
28 days notice to do so - and that was concealed from them. 
Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant [my emphasis]. But the PR havent 
provided me with anything persuasive to suggest that C deliberately concealed anything about a 28-day notice period. And as I still cant see why, given the allegations fuelling each 
claim, this particular issue prevented Ms P and Mr W from making their claim or raising a 
complaint earlier, my view is that this particular argument by PR doesnt help their cause. 
The PR also suggest the purchase agreement is unlawful under Spanish Law as a 
consequence of a Spanish Court ruling. However, clause P of the Acquisition Agreement 
Terms and Conditions confirms that the agreement is governed under English Law, not 
Spanish Law. So, I dont think the Spanish judgment (and resultant enactment into Spanish 
Law) can be applied directly to a contract governed under English Law. Given when the 
products were purchased, they wouldve been governed under The Timeshare Regulations 
1997 (which amended the Timeshare Act 1992). None of those provisions prohibited the 
sale of timeshares like the one Ms P and Mr W bought. 
Further, these types of agreements fall within the later definition of a timeshare contained 
within the Timeshare Regulations 2010. So, Im satisfied that these types of timeshares have 
never been prohibited to be sold under English law, either at the time of Ms P and Mr Ws 
purchases or after. 
Based upon my findings above, Im not persuaded that theres any reason why a court might 
decide time could be extended in keeping with the provisions of the S32 of the LA.
Credit Assessment
Accepting that I believe Ms P and Mr Ws claim was brought too late, there are certain 
aspects that could be considered outside of S140A. In particular, in relation to whether GE 
undertook a proper credit assessment. GE havent provided any explanation or evidence to 
support how and if a credit assessment was completed. And given the passage of time, its 
likely this information is no longer available anyway. 
If I were to find that GE hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I make no 
such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, they 
wouldve revealed that loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for Ms P and Mr W in 
order to uphold their complaint here. However, I havent seen any information about their 
actual financial situation at the time. And theres no obvious suggestion or evidence that they 
struggled to maintain repayments. So, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable 
for them. And given the loans were fully repaid from savings by the end of 2007, there 
doesnt appear to be any evidence of loss here either.
Summary
Having considered everything available, and for the reasons mentioned above, I believe its 
likely a court would find that Ms P and Mr Ws complaints were brought to GE too late under 
the provisions of the LA. And as Ive found no other reason to uphold their complaint, I wont 
be asking GE to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms P and Mr Ws complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman