DRN-3465146
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc closed his account and restricted access to his 
funds, without giving a reason. Hed like to know why this happened.
What happened
Mr K held a current account with Barclays. In early 2021 the bank wrote to Mr K to let him 
know theyd be closing his account with immediate effect and referred him to the terms of his 
Retail Customer Agreement. They said they were unable to give further reasons as to why 
they made this decision. The funds in the account were restricted.
Upset by this Mr K raised a complaint, saying he had been unable to open an account 
elsewhere since his account had been closed. He also said hed like access to the remain 
funds. Barclays looked into what happened but didnt feel theyd done anything wrong. They 
said the decision to close the account was after extensive review, and was carefully 
considered, but they didnt provide a reason. They said they hadnt recorded any information 
that would prevent Mr K from getting an account elsewhere, and that he could withdraw the 
remaining funds in branch if he brought in ID.
Unhappy with this response Mr K referred the complaint to our service. He said the account 
was closed during lockdown, and he was shielding at the time and left without access to 
banking services. He said the person hed spoken to at Barclays seemed more concerned 
about the African-sounding names of the people hed sent and received funds from. He 
asked for an apology and admission that the closure was a biased act of de-risking. 
One of our investigators considered what happened but didnt ask Barclays to do anything 
further. She said that banks, such as Barclays, can choose who they provide accounts to, 
and were within their rights to close accounts. After considering Barclays terms around when 
they can close accounts without prior notice, she felt Barclays had applied this term fairly. 
She hadnt seen Barclays had recorded anything that would prevent Mr K opening an 
account elsewhere. They felt Barclays had acted fairly and reasonably and didnt think the 
account had been closed for a discriminatory reason.
Mr K didnt accept this, saying he had not broken the law or misused his account. He wanted 
to know exactly how he had broken the terms of the account. He felt he was entitled to know 
this information. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to point out that banks have legal and regulatory obligations to review 
and monitor the accounts of their consumers. And its also important to note that its 
generally for banks to decide whether they want to provide accounts to individuals. Banks 
can withdraw banking facilities, and theyre not obliged to provide a reason for doing so. 
What I have to consider is whether Barclays acted reasonably, and in line with the terms of 
Mr Ks account when taking the decision to end their banking relationship.
With this is mind, and having considered the evidence available, I dont think its 
unreasonable that Barclays would take the decision to block and then close Mr Ks account. 
Ive reviewed the terms of the account, and Im satisfied that this decision was made in line 
with these terms. Ive not seen anything that suggests to me this was down to any 
discriminatory reason.
I appreciate Mr K would like to know more about this decision, and the precise reasons for it. 
But this isnt something Barclays are obliged to do, either under their terms or as part of 
general banking practice. So even though theyve declined to discuss this any further, 
Barclays arent being unreasonable here. 
I can see after the block was applied Barclays investigated within a reasonable timescale, 
and then wrote to Mr K to explain the account would be closed within two weeks. I consider 
this to be reasonable. This letter also confirmed Mr K could withdraw the remaining funds in 
the account at a branch. I appreciate Mr K was shielding at the time, so withdrawing the 
funds would be difficult for him. But the actions Barclays took were reasonable. It wouldnt be 
fair for me to compensate Mr K for inconvenience that flows from reasonable actions of the 
bank. Im glad to hear he was able to get hold of his funds.
Ive also seen nothing to suggest Barclays have recorded anything that would prevent Mr K 
from opening an account elsewhere. From what hes told us hes been able to open an 
account with another bank. So, theres nothing for me to ask Barclays to do on this front.
Overall, I can understand why Mr K would be upset by the closure of his account, and 
disappointed that he hasnt been told anything further. But having reviewed the evidence I 
consider Barclays to have acted reasonably and wouldnt expect them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 
5 August 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman