DRN-2110630
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service he received when he cancelled a car insurance 
policy he bought through Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct 
(Hastings).
What happened
In March 2020 Mr B bought a car insurance policy through Hastings via an online 
comparison website. He paid a deposit and arranged to pay for the remainder of the policy in 
monthly instalments. When he contacted his previous insurer to cancel his policy with them, 
they offered him a cheaper price. So he stayed and contacted Hastings to cancel the policy 
that hadnt yet started. 
Hastings told Mr B it would deduct a non-refundable £20 arrangement fee from the refund 
amount. 
Mr B was unhappy with the information he was given when he called Hastings. He said he 
was told different reasons for the £20 fee being charged. He didnt think it reasonable to be 
charged the fee when the policy hadnt started and Hastings had sent an email. He asked to 
speak to a manager. Mr B was unhappy with the conversation that then took place as he 
said the manager talked over him.
Mr B complained to Hastings. In response, he said Hastings told him it hadnt listened to the 
call he complained about  but said that the £20 fee had been charged due to a system 
error. This was a different reason to the one Mr B said he was given when hed called. 
However, Hastings said it would waive the £20 arrangement fee. But it failed to provide the 
correct refund. So in March 2020 Mr B brought his complaint to us. He wants £150 
compensation to reflect the poor service he received. 
In June 2020 Hastings told us it had agreed to refund the arrangement fee as a gesture of 
goodwill. But it realised that it hadnt provided the correct refund and asked our investigator 
to pass on their apologies to Mr B. Hastings said it would like to offer Mr B £50 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. It accepted that Mr B had been 
provided with a poor service when he spoke with a manager and it said it was sorry for the 
upset caused. 
Our investigator initially thought Hastings should pay Mr B £100 compensation. But Hastings 
didnt agree. And on reconsideration, he thought Hastings offer was fair as it had already 
waived the £20 arrangement fee as a goodwill gesture. So essentially the overall 
compensation came to £70  and he thought this was a reasonable amount to reflect the 
poor service Mr B received. The investigator found the service Mr B received  and in 
relation to the call with the manager  was poor.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Hastings said the £20 fee was charged due to a system error, so 
it wasnt refunded as a goodwill gesture. In summary he doesnt believe his complaint has 
been taken seriously by Hastings. 
So the case has been passed for me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong, we look at the impact of any error made by a business and what it 
did to put things right. We look at whether the insurer acted reasonably and in line with the 
policy. 
Businesses have overheads and costs in arranging policies and providing documentation, 
even if it is by email. We dont think its unreasonable for a business to charge reasonable 
fees to meet its overheads, provided its clearly explained them to a consumer. 
Before Mr B bought his policy online, Hastings set out its fees. This included a non-
refundable arrangement fee of £20. I think the information was clear, so Mr B could make an 
informed decision before he decided to buy the policy.
I think Hastings provided a poor service and I can understand Mr Bs frustration when he 
called as Hastings didnt handle the call as it should have and in the delay in providing the 
correct refund to him. However, overall I think Hastings decision to refund the £20 
arrangement fee should be taken into account with the £50 offered by it to compensate Mr B 
for the poor service he received. This is because I think it was correctly owed and made 
clear to Mr B before he bought the policy. 
The compensation amounts we award are modest. In this case the total compensation 
Hastings offered of £70 for the poor service Mr B received is - in my view - reasonable and in 
line with awards we give for similar circumstances. So Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. But 
Im not asking Hastings to increase the compensation award to the amount Mr B has asked 
for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct to pay Mr B £50 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. This is in addition to the £20 
arrangement fee it waived.
Hastings Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Hastings Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman