DRN-4486846
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a 
claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L contacted Aviva to make a claim when water from an external source 
damaged the electrics in their home. Aviva assessed the claim and declined it. Aviva said 
the damage wasnt covered by the storm or flood part of the policy. It also said the water was 
entering the property over time and gradually occurring damage wasnt covered by the 
policy.
When Mr L and Mrs L complained, Aviva maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, 
they complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said it was 
fair for Aviva to decline the claim.
As Mr L and Mrs L didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The policy provided cover for Storm or flood (overflow of external water sources, such as 
rivers, lakes and the sea). Aviva declined the claim because it said the damage wasnt 
covered by the storm or the flood part of the policy. So, Ive thought about this.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
The policy said a storm was an unusual weather event with persistent high winds usually 
associated with rain, thunder, lightning or snow with windspeeds or gusts normally 
exceeding 55 mph. Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time the damage was 
found. There were no windspeeds of around that strength. I also didnt see a significant level 
of rain. So, I think the answer to the first question is no, which means I dont need to 
consider the other two questions.
Ive also looked at the flood cover under the policy. There was only cover where a flood was 
the result of overflow of external water sources, such as rivers, lakes and the sea. I dont 
think this is unusual wording and is similar to what is found in other policies. Its my 
understanding that a nearby road had recently been resurfaced causing water to run off onto 
Mr L and Mrs Ls property, which then entered their home. So, the water wasnt from an 
external water source such as those described in the policy, which meant there wasnt cover 
available under the flood part of the policy.
Im aware Mr L and Mrs L have said they think the policy should have said it didnt cover 
flood from rainfall water. But I think the policy explained what it covered and I wouldnt 
expect it to describe every scenario it didnt cover. Mr L and Mrs L also said a garage roof in 
the area collapsed the same night due to the amount of rainfall. I dont know the 
circumstances of what happened with that roof. But, regardless of that, Im considering what 
happened with Mr L and Mrs Ls claim and whether that was fairly dealt with. As part of that 
Ive looked at the weather, including the rainfall and didnt see anything that showed a high 
level of rainfall.
Mr L and Mrs L didnt have accidental damage cover, so I havent looked at that any further. 
But looking at the cover Mr L and Mrs L had under the policy, I think its fair that Aviva didnt 
deal with the claim under the storm or the flood part of the policy. As a result, I dont uphold 
this complaint or require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman