DRN-3879953
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as L has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned down 
its business interruption insurance claim after its business was impacted by Covid-19. 
Ms M, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf through a representative. For 
ease, Ill refer to all submissions as being from L.
What happened
L is a restaurant business in Scotland and held a business interruption insurance policy with 
AXA. L claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19.
L said that its customer Mr S had felt unwell at the restaurant and a few days later he was 
hospitalised with Covid-19. L said Mr Ss medical records supported this and that it could 
also provide statements from two other customers who had seen Mr S and his wife Mrs S at 
the restaurant while dining there with their wives. 
AXA said the policy covered business interruption only where business interruption losses 
were caused by a case of Covid-19 at the business premises. AXA said that Ls restaurant 
had been required to close on 20 March 2020 and the date Mr S had been at the restaurant 
(21 March 2020) was after this date. L said that restaurants in Scotland had not been 
required to close until 23 March 2020. L explained that it had initially said, in error, that Mr S 
had been dining at the restaurant on 21 March 2020, being the last evening before L had to 
close when in fact the correct date had been Sunday 22 March 2020. The witness evidence 
supported that it was 22 March 2020. 
AXA said that the interruption to Ls business was not caused by a particular occurrence of 
Covid-19 at Ls premises, but rather due to the Governments lockdown restrictions. 
AXA said that Ls claim was not affected by the Supreme Courts judgment in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance test case, because at the 
premises clauses were not considered as part of the test case. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, L brought its complaint to our service. L said that AXA had 
not disputed there had been a case of Covid-19 at its premises. L referred to a decision 
issued by my Ombudsman colleagues. In that case we had decided that a single case of 
Covid-19 at the premises was a proximate and concurrent cause of the Governments 
decision to introduce the lockdown restrictions, which interrupted the business causing a 
loss. 
Our Investigator looked into Ls complaint and recommended it be upheld. Mr Ss medical 
evidence showed that he had been admitted to hospital with Covid-19 on 27 March 2020. 
She had seen statements from two other customers who said theyd seen Mr S at Ls 
premises five days earlier on 22 March 2020. Our Investigator considered this was 
persuasive evidence and showed it was more likely than not that there was an occurrence of 
Covid-19 at the premises. 
Our Investigator recommended that AXA pay Ls claim from the date it closed (23 March 
2020) until 15 July 2020 when Scottish restaurants were permitted to reopen, together with 
interest on the claim payment. L had mentioned a later lockdown period and our Investigator 
clarified that the evidence showed there was likely an occurrence of Covid-19 at the 
premises for the first lockdown period in March 2020 only. 
L accepted our Investigators findings. AXA did not and asked for an Ombudsmans review. 
In summary, AXA said there were legal cases due to be heard that might impact on our 
stated position that a single case of Covid-19 at the premises could be considered causative 
of the lockdown. As such, it asked that we pause our review pending the outcome of the 
above litigation. 
Following a preliminary review, I asked L to confirm my understanding of the timeline for 
Mr Ss illness and his symptoms. L did so, and added the following points: 
Mr Ss recollection was that he started to feel quite noticeably ill on Monday 23 March 
2020. At that point, the symptoms he remembers were pain in his eyes, headache, 
sore joints and feeling of weakness. These recollections are largely consistent with 
the hospital attendance and discharge records. However, the hospital recorded a 
temperature. 
It re-stated its point that the occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises had not formed 
part of the reasons given by AXA for refusing cover.
My provisional decision
I reviewed the complaint and issue a provisional decision explaining why I did not intend to 
uphold this complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I am sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ls business. But I am currently not minded to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why 
and in doing so I will focus on the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. 
The relevant law 
I have taken into account the relevant legislation and case law, including the FCA test case. 
Whilst I note this was a decision of the English courts, and L is based in Scotland, the terms 
of the policy state that the applicable law for considering the interpretation of the policy terms 
is English law. So, I consider the Supreme Courts judgment to be relevant to this complaint. 
I do also appreciate that the Supreme Court considered the regulations that were introduced 
in England, and that different regulations were made in Scotland. But I think that the courts 
would likely have come to the same conclusions had it been considering the Scottish 
regulations. While there are some differences in the specific restrictions introduced and their 
timings, the underlying principles remain the same. References in this decision to the 
Government shall include the Scottish Parliament as appropriate. 
Ive noted AXAs request that we wait until the two additional legal cases to which it has 
referred have been decided. But I do not think it would be fair to postpone the decision 
pending the outcome of the cases, not least as there is a relevant Supreme Court decision.
The policy Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
AXA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Ls claim. 
The relevant part of the extension within Ls policy covers business interruption loss due to 
the occurrence of: 
Contagious and/or Infectious Diseases occurring at the PREMISES excluding 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition. 
Covid-19 is a contagious and/or infectious disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for 
Ls claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a 
case of Covid-19 occurring at the premises. 
L has made the point that AXA itself did not dispute that there had been a case of Covid-19 
at the premises, when explaining its decision not to pay the claim. But in its final response 
letter AXA said the business interruption loss was not caused by a particular occurrence of 
Covid-19 at the premises, but rather Coronavirus/the lockdown. 
In my view, AXA did argue there had not been an occurrence of Covid-19. In any event, to 
uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied there had been an occurrence of Covid-19 
at the premises. This is directly relevant to Ls causation argument as I will go on to explain.
Was there most likely a case of Covid-19 at Ls premises? 
As with any assessment of evidence, several aspects mean that more weight can be placed 
on certain evidence as opposed to others. For example, a document produced 
contemporaneously for a purpose unconnected to the matter at hand is likely to be more 
persuasive than testimony produced some time after the events for the express purpose of 
the claim. That is not to say testimony is not useful. But it is recognised that memories can 
and do change over the course of time. 
The evidence provided by L can be summarised as follows: 
Thursday 19 March 2020: Mr S and his wife Mrs S dined at Ls restaurant, paying 
cash. 
Sunday 22 March 2020: Mr S and his wife dined at Ls restaurant, and paid cash. 
Mr S felt unwell and feverish that evening. The husbands of two couples dining at 
the restaurant on the same evening have, in 2022, given statements to say they say 
saw Mr and Mrs S at the restaurant that evening. In their statements they say that 
Mr S was sitting close to them, that he wasnt feeling great and that he later told 
one of them of his diagnosis with Covid-19, as the witness had been one of Mr Ss 
close contacts. 
There is no additional evidence that the witnesses were at the restaurant because 
they were regular diners, didnt book in advance, and all paid cash. Mr and Mrs S 
and the wives of the witnesses are all willing to give statements to say that they were 
at the restaurant on Sunday 22 March 2020 and give evidence to that effect in court if 
necessary. 
Monday 23 March 2020: Mr S said that he was feeling noticeably ill. Wednesday 25 March 2020: Mr S collapsed and was taken by ambulance to the 
Accident and Emergency (A & E) department of his local hospital. He has provided 
medical evidence to confirm his illness, and the A & E discharge form says that he 
had been feeling unwell for four days with lethargy, myalgia (muscle pain) and 
reduced appetite and was feeling feverish tonight. He was sent home. 
Friday 27 March 2020: Mr S was admitted to hospital again with lethargy and 
drowsiness which started last week. He initially had a mild pyrexia (fever) but no 
cough. He tested positive for Covid-19. 
Saturday 28 March 2020: Mr S was discharged from hospital. 
The medical evidence supports that Mr S had Covid-19, diagnosed on 27 March 2020 and 
that he had experienced symptoms for several days previously. The evidence supports 
Mr Ss evidence that he felt unwell on the evening of Sunday 22 March 2020 and that he 
started feeling noticeably ill on Monday 23 March 2020. 
The Supreme Court in the test case confirmed that an occurrence of Covid-19 happens 
when an individual becomes diagnosable with the disease. Where an individual has gone on 
to display symptoms of Covid-19, it is likely they would have been diagnosable with the 
diseases (and so the disease would have occurred) one to three days prior to this. 
Mr S had symptoms on 22 March 2020 and was diagnosed with Covid-19 on 27 March 
2020. Based on the evidence I think its likely, on balance, that he had symptoms of 
Covid-19 on 22 March 2020 and, as such, would have been diagnosable with the disease on 
22 March 2020 and also three days earlier on 19 March 2020. These are both dates on 
which Mr S said he was at Ls restaurant. 
There is no direct evidence to show that Mr and Mrs S were at the restaurant either on 
22 March 2020 or 19 March 2020. There is also no direct evidence to show that the 
witnesses were at Ls restaurant on Sunday 22 March 2020, such as booking information 
because all couples were regulars who didnt book in advance and all of them paid cash. 
They have all provided, or agreed to provide, statements to say that they were at Ls 
restaurant and to provide evidence under oath in court. 
The statements were drafted in 2022 and I have taken into account the testimony of Mr S 
and the witnesses. But I dont consider there is enough evidence to show that there was 
most likely a case of Covid-19 at Ls premises that was an equally concurrent cause of the 
lockdown. Ill explain why. 
Was a case of Covid-19 at Ls restaurant an equal cause of the lockdown? 
L has made the point to AXA that restaurants in Scotland were not required to close before 
Monday 23 March 2020. Ive considered Ls argument but I dont agree. 
The decision that restaurants were required to close was announced in a speech by Prime 
Minister Boris Johnson on Friday 20 March 2020. His speech made it clear that this was a 
decision taken by all the devolved nations, including Scotland. The instruction was for 
restaurants to close that night and not to reopen on 21 March 2020. 
I appreciate that the relevant legislation wasnt introduced in Scotland until 26 March 2020. 
But it is our view that the occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises would have to have 
happened before the Governments decision to introduce regulations on 20 March 2020. 
It follows that for me to find that Mr Ss case of Covid-19 was an equally concurrent cause of the Governments decision to introduce the Covid-19 regulations, I would need to see that 
this had occurred before the Governments decision on 20 March 2020 and that Mr S had 
been at Ls premises before that time. Both L and AXA are aware of the approach we are 
taking on this issue and so I wont set out the arguments in detail here. 
Ive concluded on the evidence that Ive seen that Mr S is likely to have been diagnosable 
with Covid-19 on 19 March 2020. Ive explained that to uphold this complaint I would also 
need to be satisfied that he was at Ls restaurant premises before the Governments 
decision to introduce the Covid-19 restrictions on 20 March 2020. But there is no additional 
direct evidence to support that Mr S was at Ls premises such as, for example, a booking 
entry, payment receipt or text message. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show that Mr and Mrs S were at the restaurant on Thursday 
19 March 2020. So I currently do not consider that I can fairly conclude that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at the premises on 19 March 2020 such as to find that it was an equally 
concurrent cause of the Governments lockdown regulations. 
It follows that I currently consider that AXAs decision to turn down Ls claim was a fair one 
and I dont intend to uphold Ls complaint. 
I appreciate that this will come as a considerable disappointment to L. I am willing to 
consider any additional evidence that L wishes to provide before I reach my final decision on 
this complaint.
Despite a reminder, L did not respond to my provisional decision. 
AXA responded to say that it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not received any further comments in response to my provisional decision and so I see 
no reason to depart from the findings I reached in that decision. I confirm those findings 
here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman