DRN-2955430
The complaint
 Mr B complains about the service provided by Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) under his motor insurance policy. 
Admiral uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Any reference to Admiral in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
 In December 2019 Mr B contacted Admiral to advise them of a change of email address. 
However, Admiral didnt make the change and subsequently sent him a renewal notice in 
February 2020 to his previous email address. As Mr B had a policy that was subject to 
automatic renewal, his policy automatically renewed in March 2020, at a premium of £2,136.
 
Mr B complained to Admiral in November 2020, when he noticed that his monthly direct debit 
for his policy was significantly higher. Mr B was unhappy he hadnt received his renewal 
documents and that his policy was automatically renewed at a significantly higher premium.
 
Admiral upheld Mr Bs complaint in their Final Response Letters of November 2020 and 
January 2021. They accepted they made an error by not updating Mr Bs email address and 
hadnt received his renewal documents. Admiral offered to apply a £200 discount to his 
premium, bringing it down to £1,936. Admiral also offered £30 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. Admiral further offered to remove the cancellation fee that would 
otherwise be payable, should Mr B decide to cancel his policy before its next renewal.
 
On Mr Bs concern about the significantly higher premium, Admiral stated that the premium 
calculated for Mr Bs renewal was accurate and correct when the renewal documents were 
issued. Admiral acknowledged Mr Bs concerns about being able to obtain cheaper quotes 
online  including one with Admiral themselves. But Admiral noted that the latter was based 
on significantly different information. Admiral also noted that different pricing structures 
applied to new customers compared with existing customers, and that those structures 
varied on a day to day basis.
Mr B was unhappy at Admirals response and complained to this service in November 2020. 
He was unhappy at his policy being automatically renewed and hadnt had the opportunity to 
consider whether it was appropriate for his circumstances. Mr B was also unhappy at what 
he considered to be an excessive level of premium given his age and his type of vehicle. He 
told us that had the renewal notice been sent to his correct email address he would not have 
renewed it and would have looked at other insurers where he felt he could have obtained 
cover at a much lower premium. He was also unhappy at subsequently being quoted a 
substantially lower premium by Admiral as a new customer (£532) and that he had received 
quotes from other insurers at around the £600 figure. He requested that Admiral pay him the 
difference from what it had charged him. He was also unhappy at the offer of £30 
compensation and the £200 discount.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He found that Admiral had made an error 
in not changing Mr Bs email address, so he didnt receive his renewal documents 
and wasnt able to assess whether he was content with the renewal, particularly the 
higher premium (£2,136 compared to £1,483 at renewal in March 2019). While it 
wasnt possible to know what Mr B would have done had he received the renewal 
documents, the investigator considered it likely that Mr B would have looked at other 
insurers or tried to negotiate a lower premium with Admiral. 
The investigator concluded that Admiral needed to do more to put things right. He 
thought that Admiral should refund the difference between what they had offered to 
Mr B through a discounted premium (£1,936) and what the investigator thought would 
have been a reasonable premium at renewal (£1,633). The investigator also thought 
that Admiral should refund the interest paid on this sum during the year, based on the 
credit agreement interest rate. The investigator also concluded that Admiral should 
add a further £75 in compensation for Mr B having to refer his complaint to this 
service (taking the compensation element to £105).
Admiral disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They provided information on how they had calculated Mr Bs premium at 
renewal in March 2020. They also stated that quotes obtained by Mr B at the time of his 
complaint to this service would not have been representative of quotes that he would have 
been likely to obtain at the time of his renewal. They also contended that information entered 
by Mr B to generate a quote on their website wasnt accurate and would have had a 
substantial impact on the premium quoted. They also noted that Mr B continued with his 
policy, even though they had offered to waive any cancellation fees should he have decided 
to cancel his policy and take out cover with another insurer. While disagreeing with the 
additional sum arrived at by the investigator (£302) Admiral did offer an additional £100 in 
compensation for Mr B not being able to check his renewal documents.
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators conclusion that Admiral should 
refund the difference between what they had offered to Mr B through a discounted 
premium and what the investigator thought would have been a reasonable premium 
at renewal. I concluded that Mr Bs premium would have increased significantly at 
renewal in March 2020, and that two fault claims in a short period drove the increase.  
I also concluded that while Mr B didnt have his renewal documents, he should have 
been aware of the increase in premium, given the significant increase in his monthly 
payments. I also thought that Mr B wasnt significantly disadvantaged by not being 
able to look for alternative cover at the time. I also thought Admirals offer of 
additional compensation was fair.
Because I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
The main element of Mr Bs complaint is that he wasnt provided with the renewal 
documents that he should have been at the time of his renewal in March 2020. Ive 
noted that this isnt disputed by Admiral and that they have offered Mr B a discount on 
his policy as well as compensation for the inconvenience caused. So, I dont need to 
consider if it made a mistake  only if its done enough to put things right for Mr B.
Mr B is also unhappy at what he considers to be an excessive premium increase at 
renewal in March 2020. And that had he been aware of the increase at the time he 
would have been able to obtain a cheaper premium elsewhere.
In considering this point, Ive looked at the information provided by Admiral on Mr Bs 
premiums from when he first took out his policy through to renewal in March 2020. Mr 
B had significant premium increases in March 2019 and March 2020, following fault 
claims in November 2018 and November 2019. Ive looked at the detailed underwriting information that sets out the impact of the two claims. This supports the 
significant increase in premiums at renewals in March 2019 and March 2020. Ive also 
noted a change of address between the two renewals that also increased Mr Bs 
premium. Admiral told us that had that change been reflected in the March 2019 
renewal, the premium would have been £1,546 (rather than £1,483). 
Taking these factors into account, Ive concluded that Mr Bs premium would have 
increased significantly at renewal in March 2020, and that two fault claims in a short 
period drove the increase. I dont think this is unreasonable. Ive also noted that Mr 
Bs policy automatically renewed at the higher premium in March 2020, and that his 
monthly direct debit payments would have similarly increased. So, while Mr B didnt 
have his renewal documents, I think he should have been aware given the significant 
increase in his monthly payments. And he could have contacted Admiral to question 
them (and request details of his policy and the premiums).
While I think Mr B should have been aware of the higher premium, I have considered 
his point that he could have obtained significantly cheaper cover. Mr B provided 
screenshot evidence that appears to show a substantially lower quote from Admiral. 
However, Ive noted that Admiral state that they have looked at the information 
provided by Mr B when obtaining that quote and that it doesnt reflect Mr Bs 
circumstances, for example his claims history. 
While I havent been provided with detailed information about the basis for the lower 
quotation, Im not persuaded that it reflects a genuine like for like comparison with Mr 
Bs premium at the March 2020 renewal. Its substantially less even than the premium 
when he first took out cover with Admiral in March 2017, which was before two 
subsequent fault claims. Together with my conclusion about the reasons for the 
significant increase in premium in March 2020, I dont think it indicates that Mr B was 
significantly disadvantaged by not being able to look for alternative cover at the time. 
On the issue of compensation, Ive noted that Admiral accepted that they made an error, and 
that theyve offered a further £100 on top of the £30 they initially offered Mr B, making a total 
of £130. Ive considered this in the context of Admirals discount of Mr Bs premium and offer 
to waive the cancellation fee, as well as my other conclusions and I think its a fair offer.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay Mr B the additional compensation of £100 in addition to the £30 compensation 
that it has offered (if it has not already paid that sum).
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. 
Neither Admiral nor Mr B responded to my provisional decision by the date requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As neither Admiral nor Mr B responded to my provisional decision, I havent changed my 
view and my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay Mr B the additional compensation of £100 in addition to the £30 compensation 
that it has offered (if it has not already paid that sum).
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell them Mr B accepts my final decision.  If they pay later than this, they must 
also pay interest on the costs from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman