DRN-3760150
The complaint
Mr V complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In April Mr V acquired a second-hand car at a cost of £. It was some eight years old and had 
covered over 66,000 miles. He took the car back to the dealer within a few days and it 
identified that the clutch has been burnt out and the car had been in a collision leaving the 
bumper damaged. Mr V has said that the collision damage was caused when he could not 
get the car into gear. The dealer repaired the clutch and gearbox as a gesture of goodwill. 
However, Mr V wanted to unwind the agreement and I gather he stopped making payments 
to Santander.
He contracted Santander and it arranged for the car to be subjected to an independent 
inspection. The inspector concluded that the car had been repaired to a satisfactory 
standard and the collision damage was not the responsibility of the dealer.
Mr V brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  Mr V disputed the material submitted by 
Santander and regarded the independent report as false.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
I note Mr V has told this service that he had taken the initial steps to take this matter to the 
Small Claims Court. However, I gather he has not pursued this avenue so I am able to give 
him a decision on his complaint.
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Santander is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Mr V has also alluded to the validity of the finance agreement, but I have seen nothing which 
would allow me to conclude that it was invalid. Mr V entered into agreement to buy the car, 
paid a deposit and the balance was funded by Santander. He took the car away having paid 
for it and so it is clear that the substance of the agreement is in place in that Santander 
provide him with finance.
He brought the car back a few days later with a burned out clutch and collision damage. I 
need to be satisfied that the car was not fit for purpose at the point of sale and so I am reliant 
on the expert engineer and his report. This states:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that the clutch has been 
replaced. The cause of the clutch failure appeared to be as a result of operator inattention / 
drive technique, as evident by the images. In our opinion, it is unlikely the clutch was in a 
failed condition when the vehicle was placed on hire.
I gather it is unusual for a clutch to burn out due to wear and tear and I have been given no 
reason to doubt the findings of the independent inspector. Therefore I cannot conclude that 
the clutch was faulty when the car was sold. In any event the dealer repaired it at no cost to 
Mr V and so he could have had the car back fully repaired.
As for the other damage I have seen photograph of the car prior to sale and there is no 
damage. I also note that Mr V has suggested it happened after he had taken delivery of the 
car. The inspector also confirmed the damage was recent.
In conclusion I consider that Mr V was sold a car which was fit for purpose and there are no 
grounds that would allow me to say he could reject it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman