DRN-3242279
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) took back money it refunded under a 
chargeback request, for an item he purchased using his Lloyds debit card. He would like a 
refund of the purchase he made.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
The Chargeback Scheme is a voluntary one governed by a set of rules laid down by 
the relevant card scheme. The Scheme sets out the rules for when a chargeback is 
allowed and what is expected of the parties involved. Banks dont have to use the 
scheme, but we do expect them to try to obtain a refund if the evidence supports a 
claim. In this case I can see that Lloyds did consider a Chargeback request. The 
usual process is to issue a refund whilst the request is being investigated but if the 
evidence doesnt support a valid claim the refund is then taken back which is what 
happened here. In terms of process I dont think Lloyds has done anything 
I do appreciate Mr Bs frustration; he paid a significant sum of money for an item he 
says he didnt get. Unfortunately, he made the payment to a third party. I have seen 
the information provided by that party. It confirms that it made the payment to the 
merchant for Mr B. Unfortunately, the Chargeback claim is with the party Mr B paid 
the money to, not the merchant whose goods Mr B ordered. As the third party 
evidenced it made the payment, Lloyds had no grounds to pursue a Chargeback 
since the service  the transfer of the money  was carried out . On this basis I cant 
reasonably ask Lloyds to pay Mr B the cost of the item he says he didnt get.
I have noted Lloyds paid Mr B £75 compensation in acknowledgement that it didnt 
properly explain to Mr B why it couldnt progress his Chargeback request. I think that 
was reasonable as it must have caused Mr B some frustration not to understand why 
his claim wasnt being progressed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman