DRN-4199740
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund money he lost that 
he alleges was part of an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
I recognise theres a disagreement here about whether these disputed payments 
were made as part of an investment scam. But I dont think I need to make a finding 
on this point. 
Thats because, even if I accept this was a scam, it wouldnt automatically follow that 
Halifax are liable to refund Mr T. Instead, I must consider whether Halifax  taking 
into account relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud 
risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction 
before making the payment.
Having reviewed how Mr T used his account in the months leading up to the scam, 
Ive noted he made several payments by cheque, which was the type of payment in 
dispute here. Ive also considered how the few disputed payments were made over a 
year and a half  so there wasnt anything alarming in their frequency.
I realise the payments were for increasingly significant amounts. Mr Ts 
representatives submit that, in line with the rules, Halifax ought to flag any large 
payment. But what theyre referred to are examples of suspicious activity  its not a 
prescriptive list. And I think its reasonable to say that what is deemed unusual can 
only be determined by reference to what is usual. Here, Mr T had made previously 
several payments of a similar size to those in dispute, so I dont think this 
represented a significant departure from how the account usually operated. 
Mr Ts representative also point out that these payments went to a new payee. But I 
dont think that, in itself, is enough to say its unusual or suspicious, bearing in mind 
the plentiful legitimate reasons new payees are created. 
Taking this all into account, I consider it reasonable that Halifax didnt detect a fraud 
risk  so simply processed the payments in line with Mr Ts instructions. 
As well as considering whether Halifax ought to have prevented any alleged losses, 
Ive considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. It didnt explore this, 
as it wasnt satisfied it was a scam. But even if it was wrong about this, I dont think it 
wouldve made any difference. Thats given the time that passed between the 
payments and Mr Ts reporting of the alleged scam  and, therefore, the likelihood 
that any funds could be recovered.  
I appreciate this will be very disappointing to Mr T. But, having considered this 
carefully, even if this was a scam, Im not persuaded Halifax could fairly be blamed 
for failing to stop or recover his losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman