DRN-3290589
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc closed his bank account and wont return money held 
in the account to him. 
What happened
Mr L had an account with Santander. In late February 2020, two payments for £3,000 and 
£5,000 were made into his account. 
Santander took the view that it needed to look into the payments and how Mr L was 
operating his account. So, Santander blocked Mr Ls account and called him to ask him 
some questions about the payments. 
During a phone call on 28 February 2020, Santander asked Mr L if he was expecting the two 
payments that had been made into his account. Mr L told Santander that he was only 
expecting £1,000 from his brother. He told the bank that he didnt recognise the name of the 
person sending the funds, who I will refer to as V and that he hadnt been expecting £8,000 
at all. 
A few weeks later, Santander spoke to Mr L again about the payments. Mr L told Santander 
that hed spoken to his brother and that the money was payment for land hed sold in 
Nigeria. He said he had been expecting around £10,000. And explained that his brother had 
organised the sale, and then arranged for his friend V, to transfer the money to him because 
this would be the quickest way for him to receive the funds. Santander asked Mr L who 
bought the land from him  his brothers friend who sent him the money or an unknown 
person. But Mr L didnt clarify whod actually bought the land. So, Santander asked Mr L to 
send them information to support his explanation. 
Mr L sent Santander copies of Vs bank statement which showed £5,000 and £3,000 being 
transferred to Mr Ls account on 28 February 2020. And a copy of an invoice and receipt 
made out to V dated 27 February 2020 for the sale of a plot of land in Nigeria. 
On 2 July 2020, Mr L told Santander that he wasnt able to provide any legal documentation 
to evidence the sale of the land as this wasnt paperwork that was produced in the country 
where hed sold the land. However, on 24 July 2020, Mr L sent Santander a copy of a Deed 
of assignment dated 22 July 2020 for the sale of the land to V.
Santander reviewed the paperwork Mr L provided, but said it wasnt sufficient to show he 
was entitled to the money in his account. So, it didnt release the money. Following this the 
bank decided to close Mr Ls account.
Mr L wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service where one 
of our investigators looked into things. She said that Santander hadnt done anything wrong 
when it reviewed and closed Mr Ls account. And she said it had done so in line with the 
account terms and relevant regulations. She didnt think Santander had treated Mr L unfairly 
when it decided not to release the money. And she said it had acted in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. So, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr L didnt accept the investigators view. He said hed provided all he could about the 
payments into his account. And the bank should release the funds back to him or return 
them to V. He said hed only learnt that his brother had sold his land after hed first spoke to 
Santander, so he was entitled to the money paid into his account. He explained that hed 
been caused a great deal of distress and inconvenience. And he said he had been placed 
into financial difficulty because of the banks actions as he needed the money to support his 
family. He wants the bank to release the funds.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
Prior to issuing my decision I asked the investigator to obtain some more information from 
Mr L  a land registry stamped copy of the deed of assignment registering the transfer of the 
land Mr L says he sold, and copies of his overseas bank account which shows further 
payments relating to the sale. Mr L provided copies of his overseas bank statement and sent 
us another copy of the deed of assignment hed previously submitted, which isnt stamped. 
So, Ive also considered these documents along with the paperwork already provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Santander has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations 
are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. They can broadly be 
summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and 
detect financial crime.
To comply with its obligations Santander may need to review an account and/or restrict its 
customers access to accounts and funds held within them. Santander is also entitled to ask 
a customer for more information about how they use their account, including payments 
which are made into and out of an account. 
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account or access to money in his account 
made things quite difficult for Mr L.  He has explained that that he had recently relocated to 
the UK and was relying on the money to provide for his family. So, I can understand why he 
found this experience with Santander stressful and upsetting. But as Ive explained, banks 
have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that Santander was complying with its obligations when it reviewed  
Mr Ls account and asked him for information. The bank has explained that this was its 
standard procedure, and I accept that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr L 
inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. 
The crux of Mr Ls complaint is that he wants the money that was paid into his account 
released to him. Mr L says the money was paid to him for land he owned that he sold 
overseas. He says he is a law abiding citizen whos not done anything wrong. So, cant 
understand why the bank wont allow him access to money in his account.
Ive considered what Mr L has said about the funds and looked at the paperwork hes 
provided to support his explanation. Ive also considered the information Santander has 
provided, which includes information it received from the sending bank about the money paid 
into Mr Ls account by V. Having done so I cant say the bank has treated Mr L unfairly when 
it decided not to release the money to him. I say this for the following reasons:Mr L has changed his explanation regarding the payments  when he first spoke to 
Santander, he told the bank that he had no knowledge of the £8,000 paid into his 
account and that he didnt know the sending party, V at all. At the time he said he 
was only expecting £1,000, from his brother and not £8,000. 
He later provided a different explanation and said he was expecting the money - he 
said it was the proceeds of a land sale, organised by his brother on his behalf. Mr L 
said his brother had arranged the payment to be made via his friend, V as this was a 
quickest way of getting the money to him in the UK.
This explanation isnt supported by Vs bank statements. I cant see any reference to 
a land sale or anything to suggest V was acting as a middle man  and simply 
passing the money onto Mr L. 
Its also not clear why Mr L received two separate payments of £3,000 and £5,000, 
instead of a one-off payment for the full amount to complete the transaction. 
I note too from looking at Mr Ls overseas bank account statements that he received 
a further payment on 5 July 2020, which he says was authorised by V. Again, the 
payment isnt referenced land sale. Its also from a different account than the 
February 2020 payments from Vs account. Mr L hasnt explained what (if any) 
connection V has with this account/payment.  
Mr L hasnt been able to provide any paperwork or evidence that set out the 
negotiations that led up to the sale, such as emails between Mr L and his brother 
arranging and agreeing the sale or any communications between Mr Ls brother and 
the buyer, which is a normal occurrence when land/property is sold.
Ive listened to a call between Mr L and Santander on 30 March 2020. During the call 
Santander asked Mr L who had bought the land from him  he was asked was it V 
who had sent the two payments or an unknown person. Mr L wasnt able to tell 
Santander, which I find unusual. Especially, as by the time of this call he says hed 
already spoken to his brother who was supposedly arranging the sale. So, its not 
clear to me why, if this was legitimate sale, he wasnt able to provide this level of 
detail to Santander when he was asked at the time.
From looking at the paperwork Mr L has provided, it shows V bought the land  he 
wasnt simply acting as a middle man. This is contrary to what Mr L initially told 
Santander. 
The deed of assignment is also dated five months after Mr L says he sold the land. I 
would expect this to be drawn up at the time of the sale in February 2020. Its not 
clear why this wasnt done. And why Mr L went ahead and signed the document 
when he was aware there was a problem with the funds sent by V to buy the land.
Ive also not seen any evidence that the deed has been registered with the 
appropriate land registry where the land is situated. Its not been stamped, and it 
doesnt show that the Governors consent has been obtained which is required when 
land is sold in Nigeria.
So overall, Im not satisfied that Mr L has shown he is entitled to the £8,000 paid into his 
account in February 2020. And Im satisfied that the bank acted in accordance with its legal 
and regulatory obligations in retaining the money paid into Mr Ls account. So, I wont be 
asking the bank to release the funds to him. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ls account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case Santander closed Mr Ls account with immediate notice. In my view that was reasonable, 
given the concerns the bank had about how Mr L was operating his account. And Im 
satisfied it did so in line with the terms and relevant regulations. So, whilst I appreciate this 
caused Mr L trouble and upset, I cant say Santander have treated Mr L unfairly when it 
decided to close his account without notice. 
In summary, I realise this decision will be disappointing to Mr L, but for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont believe Santander treated him unfairly in taking the actions it did when it 
asked him about the payments and closed his account. So, I wont be asking Santander to 
do anything to resolve Mr Ls complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman