DRN-3906363
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to help him when he disputed a 
payment from his account.
What happened
Mr R says he didnt make a payment of £4,275 from his account on 4 January 2022. He 
raised this with Santander and confirmed he hadnt made the payment. He was unhappy 
when a temporary credit of the payment was reversed, and Santander wouldnt listen to his 
explanation of why the payment had nothing to do with him.
Santander issued a final response to the complaint saying that it had contacted the payment 
provider [anonymised here] that had processed the payment and it had provided details of 
the transaction. Santander said that without further documentation to confirm that the 
payment wasnt associated with Mr Rs own account with that payment provider it wouldnt 
be able to review the complaint. And it provided referral rights to this service.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and Mr R be refunded the 
money and paid eight per cent simple interest. Shed contacted the payment provider and it 
said that this payment wasnt related to an account that matched Mr Rs details. Mr R also 
provided details of his own account. 
Santander said it agreed to refund the money and that the balance was refunded on 25 
November 2022 and simple interest for the period from 21 February 2022 to the date of 
refund paid on 8 December 2022.
Mr R said that he wanted compensation for the treatment by Santander and the hardship 
and stress caused. He said that Santander had treated him like a criminal and needed to be 
held accountable and provide an apology. It had only written to him twice and had withdrawn 
the money with no notification. He was a loyal customer who had been deprived of a 
significant sum and this was shocking treatment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The payment in dispute has now been refunded and so I dont need to decide on the 
question of whether it was authorised. I wouldnt have necessarily expected Santander to 
write to Mr R about the refund as this followed a view from our investigator.
I will though look at the process it went through and how it dealt with Mr R. Regrettably 
although I can see that our investigator had asked for call recordings these arent available 
and there seem to be limited case notes.
Mr R disputed this payment and Santander raised a chargeback request to the payment 
provider and made a temporary credit to his account. That payment provider provided 
information about how the payment was made, including some personal information about 
Mr R and a copy of an invoice for the item and that it was collected. Mr R was asked to sign 
a statement of rebuttal having seen this and which he did on 28 January 2022.
Santander took the view that there were insufficient grounds to continue the chargeback. Its 
provided a copy of a letter it says it sent to Mr R about this on 4 February 2022 setting out 
that the amount involved would be taken from his account in 14 days. The payment was 
taken back on 21 February 2022. 
Mr R had subsequent discussions with Santander. He disputed collecting the item involved 
from the seller or signing a form at that time. Santander says that it didnt have a basis to 
request more information from the payment provider. And it asked Mr R to provide evidence 
that the payment wasnt linked to his own account at the payment provider. It records that he 
was unhappy that he would have to do this. And so, it declined his complaint.
Mr R told this service about information that hed been given by the payment provider. And 
that the payment had been one directly from his debit card to the account of the seller held 
with the payment provider. And that there was no such transaction showing on his own 
account held there. Our investigator made a third-party request to that payment provider as 
part of her investigation, and this supported what Mr R said.
The chargeback process is part of an industry scheme and is one way of dealing with 
payment disputes. The outcome of any dispute would be decided on by the card issuer and 
not Santander here. Following the submission of the request there had been a response 
including information from the seller. The next stage would be rebuttal and it was a matter for 
Santander to decide whether to pursue this based on the information. However, if it didnt 
then that still meant it had to decide whether Mr R had authorised this payment taking into 
account the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
I dont think it was unreasonable for it to ask Mr R to provide information to support that and I 
dont see that he did. And thats especially as he had access to his payment provider 
account and said he had spoken to that business. The nature of this payment as he 
describes wasnt evident from the chargeback response. And the seller hadnt provided a 
copy of a payment request or invoice for someone who wasnt going to be using a payment 
provider account. That information also didnt deal with the issue of someone collecting an 
item paid for with what is now understood to be a card not present transaction or show the 
email address that had been used by the person impersonating Mr R. 
I consider that this together with the information now provided through our investigation has 
led to the refund by Santander.
I take into account that complaint handling isnt a separate regulated process. And also, that 
the reason why Mr R was initially distressed and inconvenienced was down to the actions of 
the fraudster who had somehow obtained and misused his details. The refund and interest 
from Santander has compensated him for his initial loss and also for being deprived of a 
significant amount of money. We dont always make further awards of compensation and 
while ideally this would have been resolved earlier Ive set out the process Santander 
followed and that it then provided referral rights to this service and invited Mr R to provide 
any further information. So, while I dont doubt his frustration and worry at being the victim of 
fraud and this not being recognised until now I dont consider on balance that Santander 
needs to do anything more than it has already done to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to refund £4,275 to Mr R and pay him simple interest at eight per cent per annum from 21 February 2022 to the 
date of settlement and as I understand it has now already done.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman