DRN-4263382
The complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC decided to cancel his payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
PPI was sold to Mr V many years ago and he paid for the policy every month. 
On 23 March 2023, Barclays wrote to Mr V to say it was withdrawing the policy from the 
market and his cover would stop from 30 June 2023. 
Mr V wasnt happy that his cover was going to stop. He said he had paid premiums for a 
number of years, but wouldnt see any return on them now the cover was coming to an end. 
He complained to Barclays. 
Barclays issued a final response letter and said its terms and conditions allowed it to cancel 
the policy by giving Mr V 30-days notice. 
Mr V then complained to this service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. Mr V didnt accept that view and so the matter has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr V will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent upheld the complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
In this decision, I have only looked at whether a mistake was made when Mr Vs policy was 
cancelled. I havent looked at whether there was a mistake when the policy was sold in the 
first place. 
It might if I explain the role of this service. We dont regulate financial businesses. And we 
cant tell Barclays to reinstate a financial product to the market if it has taken a commercial 
decision to withdraw it. What we can do is consider individual complaints and look at 
whether Barclays treated Mr V fairly and reasonably when it cancelled his policy. 
To help me decide on that point, the first thing Ive looked at is the terms and conditions that 
apply to Mr Vs policy. I can see those terms say that either Mr V or Barclays can cancel the 
policy by giving 30-days notice. In this case, Barclays gave Mr V more than three months 
written notice to say that his cover would be coming to an end. So, Im satisfied Barclays 
complied with its terms and conditions. 
I know Mr V was concerned that he had been paying for PPI premiums for a long time but 
hadnt seen a return on those premiums. However, premiums are paid on a policy like this in 
case something goes wrong. Its not the same as a financial product like a savings account 
where a person would make payments in and be able to withdraw those funds later on. I 
cant say Barclays should refund some of Mr Vs premiums because he hasnt needed to 
make a claim. 
Overall, I know Mr V is disappointed that the cover has been cancelled, but I cant say 
Barclays made a mistake when it did this. And it has given him more than the required notice 
set out in the terms and conditions. With that in mind, Barclays doesnt need to take any 
further action in this case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt need to take any further 
action in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman