DRN-4056050
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) irresponsibly granted him a credit card 
he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2014 Mr J entered into an agreement with Santander to have access to credit 
by way of a credit card account. He was given an opening credit limit of £3,600.
Mr J started getting into difficulty with making repayments to the card by December 2014. 
The account was eventually closed by Santander in August 2015. In August 2017 it was sold 
on to a third party.  
Mr J says Santander didnt complete adequate affordability checks  and shouldnt have 
granted him the account. He says he was already struggling financially at the time, was 
self-employed and didnt have a regular income. 
Santander didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment 
to check Mr Js financial circumstances before granting him the credit. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Santander acted unfairly 
in not checking Mr Js income before approving the opening of the account.
As Santander didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the account Santander says it looked into Mr Js financial situation. 
Unfortunately it no longer has the full details from his application. Ive seen that Mr J had 
made other applications for credit at around the same time where hed suggested he had an 
annual income of somewhere between £30-40,000. The checks Santander carried out 
showed that Mr J owed around £500 in unsecured credit and didnt have any adverse 
markers on his credit file, such as arrears, defaults or a history of missed payments. 
Santander also told us it carried out an affordability assessment. It assessed Mr Js 
accommodation costs as being £800, his living costs as being £445 and allowed £13 per 
month to make payments on his exiting credit commitments. This worked out at total 
committed expenditure of £1,258. 
In carrying out its checks prior to approving the application, it seems that the Santander was 
focusing more on whether he satisfied its own lending criteria rather than looking into his 
actual financial situation at the time. I think it would have been proportionate for Santander to 
have verified Mr Js income in some way, especially given the generous opening credit limit 
it was giving him. But I havent seen any evidence that his happened. 
In the absence of any checks Santander may have done, Ive reviewed the copies of Mr Js 
tax returns for 2013/14 and 2014/15 that Mr J provided to our adjudicator, showing a 
declared income of £5,500 and then £24,000 for these tax years. Mr J told our adjudicator 
prior to November 2014 he hadnt taken an income from his company and at times it had 
been necessary for him to support it with loans. 
All of this is clearly at odds with the salary Mr J was declaring in other applications for credit. 
I therefore think its very likely that had it carried out better checks, Santander would have 
seen that Mr J wasnt earning an income that was regular enough, and at a sufficient level, 
to demonstrate that hed be able to manage the new card alongside his existing financial 
commitments. I note that Mr J had used the entirety of his available credit within three 
months of being accepted for the card.
So I agree with our adjudicator that in setting the opening credit limit that it did, Santander 
failed to take reasonable and proportionate checks to establish Mr Js actual income. 
I consider it would have been proportionate for Santander to have got a more thorough 
understanding of Mr Js financial circumstances, especially his employment and income 
situation, before giving him the credit. I agree that the checks Santander carried out at the 
time show that the opening credit limit was unlikely to have been affordable. 
It follows that I dont think Santander should have granted Mr J this credit. 
Putting things right  what Santander needs to do
As I dont think Santander ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr J should 
pay back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, Santander should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr J along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Santander should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from r Hs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Santander should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr J for the remaining amount. Once Mr J has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from their credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.Given that Santander sold the outstanding balance on Mr Js account to a third party in  
August 2017, it either needs to buy the account back from the third party and make the 
necessary adjustments; pay an amount to the third party so it can make the necessary 
adjustments; or pay Mr J an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman