DRN-1072796
 
The complaint
Mr P says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.                        
Background
This complaint is about six instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr P between June 2017 
and August 2018. Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Max 
Repayment
1 28/06/2017 25/08/2017 3 £325.00 £160.35
2 26/08/2017 01/12/2017 3 £125.00 £66.32
3 29/12/2017 30/03/2018 3 £125.00 £61.91
4 07/04/2018 29/06/2018 3 £150.00 £77.09
5 29/06/2018 31/08/2018 3 £100.00 £49.34
6 31/08/2018 26/11/2018 3 £200.00 £97.55
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ps complaint and thought the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because the overall pattern of Mr Ps borrowing indicated he was 
reliant on these loans and the borrowing was becoming unsustainable. MYJAR disagreed 
and said it had done proportionate checks. It asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a review. So, it was passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint about loans 1 to 3. Mr P hasnt provided any 
further evidence or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any further findings 
on these loans because they no longer appear to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Mr P, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Ps case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point was 
reached by loan 4. I say this because:
At this point MYJAR ought to have realised Mr P was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr P had taken out four loans in nine months. So, it should have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr P was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ps 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.From loan 4 onwards Mr P was provided with a new loan either on the same day or a 
few days after setting a previous one. 
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. Loan 6 was 
taken out 14 months after Mr Ps first. Mr P had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect; service a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr P lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Mr P borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im also upholding Mr Ps complaint about loans 4 to 6. 
putting things right  what MYJAR Limited needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans 4, 5 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 4 to 6 should be removed from      
Mr Ps credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR Limited to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR 
Limited must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ps complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman