DRN-3029638
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) settled a claim on his car 
insurance policy. Hes also complained that his excess increased as a result of the claim.
For ease of reading any reference to RSA includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr R has a car through a scheme which provides the insurance for his car with RSA. He was 
involved in a collision with a lorry, so he claimed on his policy. RSA accepted the claim and 
got Mr Rs side of what happened. Mr R explained the third party had cut across him when 
the lanes merged and caused the accident. He also provided dash cam footage and details 
of two witnesses to RSA.  
RSA thought the third party was at fault and tried to hold them liable for the accident. The 
third party insurer responded to RSA to say it thought Mr R was partially to blame for the 
accident. It also provided statements from two independent witnesses who said Mr R was at 
fault. Because of this RSA settled the claim as a 50/50 split liability. It also let Mr R know that 
because of his claims history that his excess on his policy would increase from £100 to 
£300. 
Mr R didnt think this was fair and complained. He said RSA had seen the footage and 
agreed it showed he wasnt at fault. He also didnt think it was fair his excess would be 
increased because of the claim. 
RSA looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had reviewed the dash cam 
footage along with the third partys version of events and the witness statements. It said the 
witness statements supported the third partys version of events and said while the dash 
cam footage might be persuasive, it wasnt conclusive as it couldnt see to the right of Mr Rs 
car. As RSAs legal opinion was that it wouldnt be able to hold the third party at fault, it 
maintained that it was fair and reasonable to settle the claim as it had. 
RSA also said at policy renewals and total loss claims it assess the claims history of its 
customers to assess if the driving history of hirers and drivers is acceptable. And when it had 
carried out the review for Mr R, it had agreed to still provide cover but to increase his excess 
to £300. Mr R didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She 
found that as Mr R and the third partys version of events were different, and the dash cam 
footage wasnt conclusive, she didnt think RSA had done anything wrong when it settled the 
claim. She also found that Mr R had four claims in the last three years, and because of this 
RSA would only offer cover if Mr R had his excess increase to £300. Mr R didnt agree and 
said our investigator was biased. 
As Mr R didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy, like most policies we see, allow RSA to take over, 
defend or settle a claim as it sees fit. This might mean RSA makes a decision Mr R 
disagrees with, but the policy allows it. Ive considered whether RSA did so fairly and 
reasonably. 
When Mr R let RSA know about the incident, he provided the contact details of two 
witnesses and also dash cam footage. RSA said from the dash cam footage it looked as if 
Mr R wouldnt be held at fault for the accident. Once RSA had the third partys side of the 
story RSA was also provided with two independent witness statements which said Mr R was 
at fault for the accident. Because of this RSA got a legal opinion based on the witness 
statements and the dash cam footage on whether it would have reasonable prospects of 
success, if the claim went to court. The legal opinion didnt think this was a claim RSA could 
show Mr R wasnt at fault for and the likely outcome would be split liability. Because of this 
RSA settled Mr Rs claim as 50/50 split liability. 
From reviewing the witness statements and RSAs discussions about whether this is a claim 
it could defend in court. Im satisfied RSA listened to Mr R and tried to settle the claim on the 
best possible terms for him. Because of this Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for RSA to 
rely on the legal opinion and Im not going to tell RSA to do anything different or compensate 
Mr R for it. 
Ive also considered the increased excess because of this claim. Ive reviewed the 
comments from RSAs underwriter which shows the increase is because Mr R has had four 
claims in a short space of time. Because of this RSA would only provide cover for him with 
an excess of £300. As Im satisfied this is the same as RSA would do for other customers, I 
dont think its done anything wrong. I understand this answer will be disappointing to Mr R 
but Im unable to agree RSA has done anything wrong or treated him unfairly. It therefore 
follows that this isnt a complaint Im going to uphold. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman