DRN-1372779
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc applied additional charges for an international 
transfer, a long time after the transfer was made. He said he hadnt been informed about 
these extra costs.
What happened
Mr K said he made an international transfer, and opted to pay the charges, which he 
understood would be about £4. But some months later he was charged a further £17.84. He 
said if HSBC had told him about this additional charge, then he might have sent the money a 
different way. He thought HSBC should refund this charge, and pay compensation.
HSBC told him this was a charge applied by the intermediary bank. It said hed opted to pay 
all the charges, so it had passed this on to him. It didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr K had opted to pay 
all the charges, not just those applied by the sending bank. And HSBC didnt have any way 
of knowing what charges would be applied by any other bank. Although our investigator 
understood that it had taken some time for these charges to be applied to Mr Ks account, 
HSBC said that it had only just been charged for the transaction. Our investigator didnt think 
that HSBC had done anything wrong.
Mr K thought if hed opted to pay for the charges, then HSBC shouldve told him at the time 
what these were. He said it wasnt fair for HSBC to keep the option open to debit a senders 
account at any time in the future. He said that left him vulnerable. 
Mr K wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a bank applies charges to a customers account, Id expect to see that those charges 
are provided for in the terms and conditions of that account. Ive seen the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ks account. Those say that HSBC will charge £4 for an online transfer sent 
overseas, but it also says If we send money outside the EEA, we may use an intermediary 
bank. This intermediary and the receiving bank may also impose charges. 
Ive also seen the screen options Mr K chose from when he sent this payment. He had the 
option to either pay all the fees, pass all the fees to the payee, or to pay only the HSBC UK 
fees. Mr K chose to pay all the fees. So I think that Mr K did agree to pay more than £4 for 
this transfer. Mr K said he should be told exactly how much he would be charged when he made the 
transaction. I can quite understand why he wants that information. But I dont think that 
HSBC can know in advance exactly how much each intermediary or receiving bank might 
charge for its services. In this case, HSBC told us the intermediary had recently changed its 
charging policy, and HSBC only found out about this when the charges were passed back to 
it. So I dont think HSBC is able to provide the additional information that Mr K would like.
I also know that the extra fee applied by the intermediary bank wasnt applied for some 
months. I think thats unfortunate, but HSBC has told us the overseas bank that acted as 
intermediary took some time to notify HSBC about these. I can only look here at what the UK 
bank did. So whilst I agree with Mr K that this is undesirable, I dont think its HSBCs fault.
I know Mr K will be disappointed, but I dont think that HSBC has done anything wrong here. 
So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman