DRN-3613046
Complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) recorded a fraud prevention 
marker against him. He says he thought he was involving himself crypto-currency trading 
and didnt knowingly participate in fraud.
Background
In March 2021, Mr Ns account received a payment of £1,949.62. The vast majority of these 
funds were immediately transferred to a crypto-currency account. Shortly afterwards, 
Barclays received a notification from the bank which sent the payment stating that the payee 
of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Barclays reviewed Mr Ns account, decided 
to close it and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr N.
Mr N was unhappy with Barclays actions and made a complaint. Barclays looked at Mr Ns 
complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr N remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ns concerns. He didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr N unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr N disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr N is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ns account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr N was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr N allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ns complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ns account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays has 
done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.  
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ns 
account in March 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr N was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr N says that he didnt know he was getting involved in fraudulent activity. He says he met 
someone on social media who promised help him trade in crypto-currency. Mr N said he was 
persuaded to open a new account and provide him with the details of it as he didnt want to 
jeopardise the money he had in his existing account.
Ive thought about what Mr N has said and considered the limited information hes provided. 
Having done so, while Ive noted Mr N says that he trusted that the person he was in contact 
with as he looked legitimate, its difficult for me to accept that Mr N was as nave as hes 
suggesting. Firstly, I note that during the course of Barclays investigation into his complaint, 
Mr N said that he opened the account for his maid whom he was trying to help. Its unclear to 
me why he chose to invent a completely different story at this stage. 
In any event, since Mr N has been in contact with us, what Mr N hes told us suggests that 
he had clear concerns about the legitimacy of what he was being asked to get involved in. I 
say this because Mr N has said that he was reluctant to use his own main account for this 
activity and instead opened a new account with Barclays. This, in itself, indicates that Mr N 
appreciated the significant risk in providing his account details to someone he didnt know. 
Indeed, in his completed complaint form to us, Mr N says that he didnt want to jeopardise 
his money in his main account because obviously I dont really know this person. Mr N 
opening a new account suggests he was prepared to continue with the risk as long as his 
own funds werent at stake.
Furthermore, Im not persuaded that what Mr N is now saying happened is supported by the 
available evidence either. Mr N says that he only shared his account details and one-time 
passcodes with the person helping him trade in crypto-currency and he didnt have anything 
to do with the activity which took place on the account. But that doesnt explain how credits 
were made from another of Mr Ns accounts, once this Barclays account was opened, or 
how the funds went on to be moved to the crypto-currency provider. Simply providing 
account details wouldnt be enough to carry out this activity. 
As this is the case, and I think that Mr N proceeded in circumstances where he ought to 
have known that there was a significant risk that he might have been allowing his account to 
be used for illegitimate purposes, Im satisfied that the available evidence does show Mr N 
was more likely than not complicit in the activity which took place on his account. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ns account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr N was complicit in this. So I dont 
think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances 
that it did and Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr N  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr N 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman