DRN-4014042
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complains that TenetConnect Limited (Tenet) mis-sold them their term 
assurance policy by not clearly disclosing the applicable commission clawback terms. They 
also complain that Tenet has threatened them for the amount owed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
I acknowledge the upset the payment request has caused Mr and Mrs M. But I can 
only uphold the complaint and award redress if Im satisfied Tenet did something 
wrong.
Based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Tenet has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances. I say this because the terms relating to 
commission and the potential for claw-back were clearly detailed in the client 
agreement that Mr and Mrs M signed and confirmed they understood. 
Mr and Mrs M feel that the commission claw-back falls under the definition of a 
disguised penalty, but the amount of commission Tenet were receiving for the policy 
(and would be owed upon early cancellation) was clearly listed in the policy 
illustration and financial planning report.
Ive seen point of sale documents and system screen shots which demonstrate that a 
number of different quotes were discussed and that Mr and Mrs M wrote back to 
Tenet confirming theyd taken the time to read everything through and were happy 
with taking out the policy. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the policy which was 
taken out was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs M have said that during a phone call Tenet agreed it had mis-sold the 
policy by not detailing commission clearly. But call recordings arent available so Im 
unable to confirm this simply by listening to the conversation. 
Instead I have correspondence between both parties and Im satisfied this was not 
the opinion Tenet held before or after the call. So, on balance of the evidence 
available Im not persuaded that it was more likely than not agreed to that it had 
made an error. Regardless of what was specifically said  its important to reiterate 
that upon investigation Im not persuaded that the terms have been applied unfairly in 
this instance.
Nor am I persuaded that Tenet threatened Mr and Mrs M. Whilst I appreciate it must 
be unpleasant to be asked for the payment in question the communication available 
from Tenet appears to be friendly and respectful throughout. Much of the 
correspondence appears to be an attempt from Tenet to negotiate a more favorable 
outcome for Mr and Mrs M, which was eventually rejected. I cant conclude that 
Tenet acted inappropriately when requesting the amount due.
For these reasons, my decision is to not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman