DRN-3303947
The complaint
Mr H complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited Admiral s service when he 
claimed for accident repairs under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
After Mr H had an accident Admiral agreed to have his car repaired by their approved 
repairers (Admirals garage). But he said that they didnt fix it properly. He also felt that 
Admiral had delayed. 
Admiral asked an independent assessor (IA) to inspect the car. The IA agreed that more 
work was needed to rectify the repairs.  Mr H had lost faith in Admirals garages work. So 
Admiral agreed that he could use a garage of his own choice for the rectification work. Ill 
refer to that as Mr Hs garage. Admiral authorised Mr Hs garage to do the repairs. 
Admiral also accepted that thered been delays on their part around various other issues, but 
these are resolved and arent part of this complaint. Admiral paid Mr H total compensation of 
£280 for those overall.  
When Mr H got his car back from his garage there was still a problem with the door. He 
wanted Mr H to pay for that to be fixed as he said it was due to the original problem. But 
when he complained to Admiral, they wouldnt pay for its repair. They said that it was for Mr 
H to resolve because his garage was the most recent repairer and Admiral werent 
responsible for their work.
.
The investigator didnt agree. They recommended that Mr Hs complaint against Admiral 
should be upheld. They also recommended that Admiral should compensate Mr H £100 for 
the inconvenience he had experienced as a result of the matter. Admiral didnt agree and 
so Ive been asked to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a car would be caused as this is a matter for 
the experts in these situations, the insurance companies, and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurer company has considered all the available 
evidence and whether they can justify their decision to not pay for additional repairs. 
I also dont intend to go into the detail of what was wrong with Mr Hs car or to itemise all 
the items of repair. Thats because I consider that theyve been fully canvassed in the 
information that Mr H and Admiral provided. The issue here is the problem with Mr Hs car 
door.  
The IA reported on the repairs done by Admirals garage. That report said that there was 
problem with the cars door not being properly aligned, that this was due to the accident, and 
that it should be rectified. Admiral agreed that Mr H could choose a garage to do the 
rectification repairs.
When Mr H got it back from his garage he reported to Admiral that there was still a problem 
with the car door . I can see from Admirals file notes that the car door was still making a 
loud noise even after the realignment and that further investigation would involve taking the 
door apart and to do that would need Admirals authority.  
But Admirals engineer said that Admiral had already authorised and paid Mr Hs garage to 
investigate and identify a noise from the door. And if his garage thought further work was 
necessary, they should have contacted Admiral for authorisation at the time. And it wasnt  
reasonable for Admiral now to incur more costs to identify the alleged issue they were paid 
to do. So Admiral thought that Mr Hs garage should pay to fix the car door issue because 
this was their repair work and the matter was no longer Admirals responsibility. Admiral 
wouldnt agree to cover the cost of investigation and potential repair of the car door issue.
I dont think thats fair. The car door problem was clearly not a new issue. The IA report 
covered it and suggested how it might be rectified. It would appear that Mr Hs garage did 
what the IA report suggested they do, only to discover later that it did not resolve the 
problem. So it was reasonable for them to ask Admiral for further authorisation to investigate 
it then.   
And its not correct that Admirals garage is now responsible for these costs just because 
they are the most recent repairer. The door issue occurred before the IA report and is 
mentioned in the report. Its one of the areas the IA said needed fixing. Theres no 
persuasive evidence that the car door problem is not accident related. Admiral agreed to Mr 
Hs garage doing the rectification work and Admiral instructed it, or the IA did acting on 
Admirals behalf. So Mr Hs garage did the repairs on Admirals authority and Admiral remain 
responsible for it because they are responsible for having the car repaired to its pre-accident 
condition. 
Putting things right
I think that Admiral should pay for the investigation and repair of Mr Hs car door problem to 
its pre-accident condition . This dispute over the door issue has taken up more time and 
caused more inconvenience for Mr H and so I also think that Admiral should compensate  
him £100 for it. This is in addition to the compensation that they have already paid him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive discussed above its my final decision that I uphold this 
complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to: 
Pay for the investigation and repair of Mr Hs car to its pre-accident condition
 
Pay Mr H £100 in compensation, additional to what theyve already paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022. 
Admiral must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr H 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr H how much they have taken off, and give Mr Ha tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
