DRN-1612509
 
The complaint
Mr U complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) gave him incorrect information about the 
type of safe he needed to comply with the requirements of his contents insurance policy. He 
is also unhappy with UKIs service. 
What happened
Mr U took out a home contents insurance policy with UKI and asked for cover for a named 
high value item. He bought a safe for the item after asking UKI what type he needed. UKI 
then told him the safe hed bought wasnt adequate.
Mr U complained to UKI and it accepted that its advice had resulted in him buying the wrong 
type of safe. It offered to pay £50 compensation to cover the cost of the safe. Mr U didnt 
think it was sufficient.
Mr U raised a further complaint with UKI about the way it had handled this matter. He 
specifically complained that:
UKI placed an endorsement on his policy which was onerous;
UKI was unable to send the policy documents by email;
it failed to call him on an agreed date and time to discuss his complaint;
it didnt assign his complaint and contact requests to an executive, or person of a 
similar professional level to him, and
UKI sent him a cheque which he thinks is inappropriate in this day and age.
 
UKI responded to each of the points Mr U raised but it only upheld his complaint about the 
incorrect information it gave about the type of safe needed. In summary, UKI explained that:
The endorsement was for a single high value item which needed to be kept in a safe 
when not being worn. Mr U had the option to insure that particular item with another 
insurer, in which case the endorsement would be removed.
It was unable to issue documents by email until its system migration was completed.
UKI provided details of its call to Mr U on the date and time agreed, along with 
information about two further attempts within the same hour. It said a voicemail was 
left on the first attempt.
UKI explained that it had teams specially trained in customer facing roles, so it was 
appropriate for them to deal with complaints, rather than executives who were 
responsible for the daily operation of the business.
Because it was unable to speak with Mr U, UKI sent a cheque so that he could 
deposit the money in his preferred account. It agreed to reissue the payment by 
BACS.
 
Mr U remained unhappy with UKIs final response and asked us to look into his complaint.Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Us complaint because he thought UKI had acted fairly.
Mr U didnt agree. He provided a copy of his call log for the day UKI said it called him and 
asked that UKI provide evidence from its phone provider. He asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr U will be hoping for a different outcome, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why, addressing each point in turn.
As I understand it, the complaint stems from UKIs decision to place an endorsement on Mr 
Us policy for a high value item. I can see that Mr U bought the policy and contacted UKI a 
few days later to add a high value item. Because the value exceeded the policy limit for a 
single item, UKI confirmed that for it to be covered he would need to store it in a safe 
whenever it wasnt being worn. While Mr U thinks this is onerous, Im satisfied that he was 
aware of the endorsement before he agreed to the policy and he had the option of seeking 
cover elsewhere. I dont think UKI acted unfairly in requiring additional security for high value 
and high risk items. 
Leading on from this, Mr U asked for information about the type of safe he needed. UKI gave 
him incorrect information which led to Mr U buying the wrong type of safe. He then had to 
buy a different safe to meet the policy requirements. I understand Mr U would like UKI to 
refund the cost of the first safe, the cost of the new safe, and installation/removal costs. UKI 
accepted its mistake and offered Mr U £50 by way of apology and to cover the cost of the 
safe. While Mr U thinks the sum isnt sufficient, I cant see any reason to ask UKI to pay 
more. This is because the payment covers the cost of the first safe with a nominal amount 
remaining. Mr U needed to buy a safe to meet the conditions of the policy and it is still a cost 
he wouldve incurred if UKI hadnt given incorrect information. So I dont see any reason to 
ask UKI to pay for the cost of the second safe or its installation.
Mr U asked UKI when his policy documents would be emailed to him. UKI explained that it 
only sends paper copies. I understand why Mr U doesnt think this is appropriate anymore. 
However, until UKIs system is capable of sending electronic documents, there is little more 
it can do. It hasnt singled out Mr U and I dont think UKI has treated him unfairly by sending 
him paper documents.
UKI agreed to call Mr U on a particular date at a specified time. He says it didnt and UKI 
says it did. UKI provided log notes which show that it called Mr U at the agreed time and left 
a voicemail. It then made two further calls. Neither was successful and no further voicemail 
messages left. Mr U provided a copy of his call log to show that he didnt receive a call. 
However, the log only shows outbound/chargeable calls so the logs dont prove or disprove 
his point. UKI is unable to provide any evidence from its call provider because it would need 
a court request. I can see in Mr Us call log that he accessed his voicemail a few hours after 
UKI says it left a voicemail message. But, again, that doesnt prove or disprove that UKI 
made the call. On balance, Im inclined to think that UKI made the call. This is because it 
recorded the call attempts at the time they were made, not retrospectively once challenged 
on it. Making a similar point to the paper documents, Mr U doesnt think UKI shouldve issued a 
cheque to him. He says he doesnt work with cheques. In the absence of direct contact with 
him, UKI felt it appropriate to send a cheque rather than deposit the money into an account. I 
dont think it did anything wrong in sending a cheque but, even so, UKI stopped the cheque 
and issued a BACS payment to the account from which Mr U paid his premiums. UKI need 
not do anything more in respect of this point.
Finally, Mr U asked for an executive to respond to him because he thought someone of a 
similar professional standing to him should deal with his complaint. UKI explained that it has 
trained customer facing teams and that its executives handle the daily operation of the 
business. I think thats a fair response. I wouldnt expect UKI to match its agents with the 
professional level of its customers  I would expect it to match its teams skills to the role 
requirement. I am satisfied that UKI made the appropriate people available to respond to Mr 
Us complaint.
In summary, I havent identified anything in UKIs actions which cause me to think it treated 
Mr U unfairly or failed to put matters right.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman