DRN-3339466
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Christian Paul Gachet trading as Easylogbookloans.tv (ELBL) 
was irresponsible to have agreed credit for him.
What happened
ELBL provided Mr K with a loan of £2,200 in April 2018. The total amount of £7,744, 
including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 36 instalments of £215 (figures 
rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mr K provided 
ELBL with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr K didnt make his loan repayments 
ELBL could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle.
It seems Mr K missed payments in 2019 and fell into sustained arrears. I understand the 
loan was repaid in August 2020 with a lump sum payment from Mr Ks insurers when his 
car was written-off.
Mr K says that he doesnt believe ELBL took reasonable steps to ensure the loan was 
affordable for him. He says when he fell behind with his payments the lender repeatedly 
threatened to take his car, and he ended up with a small amount left from the insurance 
payment with which to purchase a new car. Mr K says ELBL didnt behave responsibly 
and that it has profited from the loan.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because they concluded ELBL had lent irresponsibly. They recommended ELBL refund all 
interest and charges paid on the loan and remove adverse information relating to it from 
Mr Ks credit file.
Mr K accepted the recommendation, but ELBL didnt agree with it. The case came to me, 
as an ombudsman, to review and resolve. I issued a provisional  decision on 4 February  
2022 explaining why I thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. Mr K agreed with my 
provisional conclusions but  ELBL havent responded. This is my final decision on the 
matter and will be legally binding on both parties if Mr K accepts it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Havng done so, and as neither party has provided any further comment or new 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
Ill set out my reasoning again below.
As Id said in my provisional decision, ELBL will be familiar with the regulations in place so 
I will summarise. ELBL needed to check that Mr K could afford to meet his repayments 
sustainably before agreeing credit for him. In other words it needed to check that he could 
meet his repayments out of his usual means without having to borrow further and without 
experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The necessary checks 
needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and Mr Ks circumstances. 
The overarching requirement was that ELBL needed to pay due regard to Mr Ks interests 
and treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G gave an example of contravening this requirement as 
targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by 
virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did ELBL complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ks application to satisfy itself that he would 
be able to make his repayments wihout experiencing adverse consequences? If not, 
what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did 
ELBL make a fair lending decision?
ELBL provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending decision. 
This included a record of its income and expenditure analysis and copies of Mr Ks 
payslips from several months prior to the agreement. ELBL accepted the figures Mr K 
gave about his monthly net income and expenditure, £2,215 and £1,309 respectively, and 
calculated that he had a monthly surplus of £906.
ELBL says that it agreed to enter into the agreement only on the understanding that this 
information was correct, and that Mr K had signed a legally binding loan agreement. 
ELBL also said that it was confident the loan was affordable for Mr K and that it had 
satisfied its regulatory obligations.
As set out in the regulations at the time (see CONC 5.3.1G(4)) if a business took income 
or expenditure into account in its assessment it was generally not sufficient for it to rely 
solely on a statement of those matters made by the customer. Although ELBL verified 
Mr Ks income by checking some of his payslips, I cant see that it took steps to 
independently verify what hed said about his outgoings. Mr K would need to make his 
repayments for three years and the consequences of not doing so were potentially serious 
in that he might lose his car. Furthermore, it seems odd to me that Mr K would actually 
have had such a relatively high surplus each month, considering he was prepared to take 
out an expensive loan for about twice the amount. Altogether, I dont think ELBL took 
sufficient steps here to check that this loan would be sustainable for Mr K over the term.
ELBL mentioned a legally binding loan agreement and I note that the terms and conditions 
of this agreement (Section 3 Your Obligations) stated that by signing it Mr K confirmed that 
he was not a debtor under any proceedings in bankruptcy and had no intention to file a 
petition for relief under the Insolvency Act 1986 or grant a trust deed or enter into any 
other arrangement with your creditors ELBL says that it wasnt obliged to check Mr Ks 
credit file and this is true  the regulations in place at the time were not prescriptive about 
how a lender might gather information. As ELBL were relying on Mr Ks statement of his 
solvency however, it seems to me it might have been proportionate to take steps to verify 
his position in this regard given such information is publicly available.
Mr K has provided some information about his financial circumstances at the time by way 
of bank statements and a credit file. I am not suggesting this is the information ELBL ought 
to have gathered but I think its a reasonably proxy for what it might have found out 
through proportionate checks.
The information Ive reviewed showed that Mr K had:
understated some of his expenses, for example his monthly child maintenance payments were £300 (not £150) and it seems his share of household expenses 
(including rent, bills and food) could come to over £1,000 (not £560) in any one 
month;
borrowed money from his parents and occasionally repaid them, for example by 
an amount of £300 in February 2018;
almost £15,000 of debt across ten accounts which had defaulted in the previous 
six months, about a third of which defaulted in the previous three;
a defaulted debt which was owned by a debt collector specialising in bankruptcy 
and other insolvency arrangements;
taken out three short term loans in the previous six months, two of which 
had defaulted;
entered into a Trust Deed with some of his creditors in October 2017.
ELBL was required to do more than assess Mr Ks ability to repay the credit  it needed to 
check whether there was a risk to him in being able to do so without experiencing financial 
difficulty or adverse consequences. I think the information the lender would likely have 
seen through proportionate checks would have shown that Mr K potentially couldnt afford 
to meet his repayments and wasnt managing his existing debt levels without difficulty. I 
think these circumstances together with Mr Ks recent use of expensive short term credit 
were likely indications of an going financial need. So there was a risk that he would not 
manage to repay this loan and any further credit would simply add to his indebtedness. I 
think ELBL was irresponsible to have agreed this loan for Mr K and I think hes lost out 
because of this. 
I can see from the statement of account that Mr K had difficulty maintaining his loan 
repayments from the beginning. I can also see from his credit file that he continued to 
default on debt after taking out this loan with a further £3,500 defaulting in the months 
afterwards. Mr K has ended up paying interest and charges, and this loan potentially had 
a negative impact on his creditworthiness. I think ELBL needs to redress this and Ive set 
out below the steps it should take to put things right for Mr K. 
Putting things right
I understand that the loan has now been repaid. I think its fair that Mr K has repaid the 
capital he borrowed as hes had the use of this money, but he shouldnt have paid 
interest and charges on this. So, in order to put things right for Mr K, ELBL needs to:
a) Refund to Mr K payments he made above the amount of £2,200 capital he 
borrowed;
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Ks credit file; and
d) Revoke any interest it has in Mr Ks car if any is still in place and return the 
relevant documents to him if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELBL to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mr Ks complaint about Christian Paul 
Gachet trading as Easylogbookloans.tv and direct it to put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman