DRN-2556618
The complaint
Mr A claims that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (the AA) unfairly 
cancelled his motor insurance and then failed to automatically renew it. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. 
In summary, Mr A was stopped by the Police in late 2020 because he was driving his car 
without insurance. Mr A says he thought he had cover in place with the AA  but, in fact, this 
had been cancelled by the AA in May 2020 because Mr A hadnt met the monthly 
instalments for the payment of his premium. This also meant that the policy didnt renew 
automatically, which Mr A says he thought it had. 
Mr A believes the AA misadvised him, which could now cause him to be banned from driving 
 the result of which would have a profound impact on him and his business. The AA does 
not agree, maintaining that it acted fairly with both the cancellation and renewal process. 
Where these material facts are not in dispute, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Its a legal requirement of The Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA) for all vehicles used on the 
road to be insured, as a minimum of third party only. Mr A did previously have sufficient 
cover in place. However, its common ground that he later missed payments towards his 
policy premium. By his own admission, Mr A didnt fulfil his obligation to make all the monthly 
instalments in exchange for cover.
Im satisfied the AA employed reasonable endeavours to contact Mr A about this, before it 
cancelled the policy. The insurer sent a number of letters asking for repayment and gave 
notice that the insurance would be cancelled if the account was not brought up to date. The 
correspondence the AA sent was correctly addressed according to the details Mr A provided. 
If Mr A no longer resided at the address the AA held for him, it was his responsibility to 
ensure that his insurer had his most up to date place of residence  it was a key requirement 
of the policy. Based on the evidence, Im not persuaded Mr A did update his postal address 
accordingly.
The AA also sent a number of subsequent emails and letters to Mr A informing him of how to 
agree insurance as part of a renewal in August 2020. Im satisfied that, on more than one 
occasion, it was made clear to Mr A that any renewal would not happen automatically and 
that he needed to contact the AA if he wanted to have his insurance cover put back in place. 
Otherwise, he would remain uninsured unless he arranged cover elsewhere. 
I cannot accept that the AA failed to deliver the material letters to Mr As old address, even 
if he had arrangements in place for any outstanding post to be given to him. I say so 
because, the overwhelming majority of correctly-addressed post is safely delivered on time. 
So, theres a rebuttable presumption in favour of these letters being received to the address 
the AA held on file. And the evidence supports that the letters were delivered without a 
problem. Besides, Mr A hasnt provided a compelling argument for why he didnt respond to 
the correctly-addressed emails. 
So, Mr A was given a fair chance to remedy the situation with the missed instalments, with 
all of the correspondence making it clear that he was at risk of losing cover unless he acted 
 however, he did not arrange this. Then, Mr A was also provided with ample notification that 
he needed to contact the AA if he wanted to have his insurance cover put back in place as 
part of a renewal process. All of which, took place before he was stopped by the police in 
November 2020. Overall, the documentary evidence convinces me that the correspondence 
the AA sent to Mr A made it reasonably clear that cover was no longer in place from May 
2020, along with the consequences of being uninsured.  
Mr A argues that he did in fact contact the AA and the necessary payment for insurance to 
be reinstated was agreed. Its unclear when this took place (i.e. following the cancellation 
and/or in response to the proposed renewal), because Mr A hasnt provided supporting 
evidence of this contact, such as phone records, email exchanges etc. Whereas, the AA has 
adduced contact notes which Im satisfied provide a reasonably accurate account of Mr As 
communication with the insurer. On balance, the evidence from the insurer is more 
persuasive  and it shows that Mr A didnt reinstate his policy in 2020, nor did he take the 
requisite action to renew it.
Mr A does seem to have made some payment towards breakdown cover that the AA 
provides. But its important to note that, while Mr A mightve contacted the AA and arranged 
for roadside assistance, this is an entirely separate policy provided for cover in the event of a 
breakdown. Such a policy does not satisfy the legal obligation Mr A had according to the 
RTA. Put simply, the breakdown cover would need to be alongside the insurance for his 
vehicle  not instead of it.   
Therefore, because its evident that Mr A didnt respond as needed to the multiple attempts 
by the AA, Im satisfied that the insurer was permitted to cancel the policy on the basis that 
the agreed payment terms were no longer being met. As I see it, the contract gave the AA 
the right to do so and it acted in line with this agreement when processing the cancellation. 
Whats more, in the circumstances, I cant safely say that there was a contractual obligation 
for the AA to renew Mr As cover. 
Finally, Mr A received a marketing email dated 17 August 2020, that alluded to him being 
insured following the cancellation. This email did include the message that Now your car 
insurance is with us, you can relax knowing its sorted and weve got you covered. This may 
have been in relation to the roadside assistance policy. Nonetheless, Mr A says this misled 
him into thinking that he did indeed have lawful cover in place for his vehicle. So, Ive 
thought carefully about this, as I can see how this email might be construed as no further 
action was needed. However, the AA says and I accept that this email was merely a generic advertisement 
that Mr A received because hed been linked to another policy or policyholder  it was not 
confirmation of cover. The existence of the email came about simply because Mr A was at 
one point connected to an altogether different policy with the AA as a named driver. 
Ive therefore looked at the contents of the message, to weigh up whether Mr A could 
reasonably believe that it was confirmation of an insurance contract, for the purposes of 
insuring his vehicle to be legally driven on the road. Due to the sequence of events, I find it 
only fair to take into account the wealth of information the AA had provided to date. That is, 
the notification of the cancelled policy, together with the renewal invitation and other 
correspondence. 
Having done so, it strikes me that there was a distinct lack of detail about Mr A and his policy 
in this message. Such as, there being no mention of Mr As vehicle registration or policy 
number. In fact, Mr As name was not even explicitly mentioned. The sheer lack of specifics 
compared to whats to be expected of an insurance contract is immediately apparent; not 
least, because it did not include the price of cover, nor the extent of such cover.  
In my view, its reasonable to expect Mr A to have, at the very least, questioned the AA to 
find out some more about this supposed agreement. Especially, in the context of all the other 
information the AA had previously sent (which Im persuaded was successfully delivered). 
Moreover, the AA had made it clear in letters and emails to Mr A only a matter of days prior 
to this email that he wasnt insured. Indeed, a letter dated 13 August 2020 provided a timely 
warning that You are no longer covered with AA Car Insurance. 
Of course, Mr A had constructive knowledge that he hadnt agreed to a new policy as part of 
a renewal. We know this because, by his own account, he hadnt even received the renewal 
documents that were sent. I also cannot ignore that, if Mr A received this particular email 
dated 17 August 2020, its more likely than not that he also received the other emails 
regarding the need to act to secure a renewal  they were all sent to his same email 
address. Yet, as mentioned, Mr A hasnt provided a persuasive explanation for why he failed 
to act on these prior messages.
So, even if it was arguable that one email confused matters, its my judgment that the 
absence of a specific reference to Mr A or his vehicle, together with all the prior 
communication the AA sent, means that Mr A could not safely assume that he was in fact 
insured on the basis of this email. All things considered, Im satisfied the information sent to 
Mr A by the AA gave enough notice to him to query whether his vehicle was insured. Had he 
done so, Im persuaded the AA wouldve told him that he wasnt. 
I recognise the impact a penalty or prosecution might have on Mr A and his business. But 
taking everything into consideration, I cant safely conclude that the AA failed to provide 
cover when the policy was due for renewal in mid-August 2020. Its my judgment that the 
insurer gave Mr A a fair chance of implementing cover; both when payments were missed on 
his original policy and at renewal stage. 
Ultimately, Mr A hasnt substantiated that he arranged lawful cover of his vehicle. Theres no 
compelling evidence that he did in fact agree the insurance that he needed with the AA 
following the cancellation in May 2020. And as Ive already explained, it was his 
responsibility to ensure that he had ample cover.
In these circumstances, Im not persuaded that the AA is to blame for the position Mr A now 
finds himself in. It follows that I do not require the AA to do anything differently for this 
complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman