DRN-2572933
The complaint
Mr T complains that his direct debit payment to Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) failed, and Barclaycard put a negative mark on his credit file.
What happened
Mr T started to use his Barclaycard again after some years. He used the card in late July 
and August. Barclaycard sent him a statement on 17 August which said he had to pay £5 by 
11 September. Mr T previously had a direct debit set up to pay the minimum amount onto 
the card, but his 17 September statement shows that the direct debit failed. 
Mr Ts statement of 15 October shows that his direct debit for that month had failed too. 
Fortunately Mr T had paid £5 manually on 16 September, so there was no late payment 
charge for that month. 
Barclaycard says that the direct debit failed because Mr T hadnt used his card in over 
twelve months, so his Direct Debit instruction became dormant. Barclaycard explained that 
when this happens, the payment is rejected. This dormancy rule is part of the Direct Debit 
guarantee scheme. Barclaycard doesnt make that rule, and it cant change it.
Barclaycard said that because Mr Ts minimum payment wasnt made by 11 September, he 
was charged a late payment fee, and this affected his credit file. Barclaycard said it had 
refunded the fee and interest charged to Mr T, but it wouldnt amend his credit file. It said 
that it has to report factual information, so it cant just amend that.
Mr T said that its up to Barclaycard to contact him to tell him to restart the direct debit when 
he started using his card again. And he said Barclaycard didnt do that. So he thought that it 
should remove the missed payment marker on his credit file. 
Barclaycard said that it had written to Mr T to warn him that he would need to double-check 
his direct debit if he started using his card again. It showed us the standard letter it sends to 
people who havent used their account in a while, like Mr T. that includes the following  
If you use your card again and have previously set up a Direct Debit on your account, 
youll have to make sure its still valid or set up a new one if its been cancelled.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Barclaycard had told 
Mr T that he would need to set his direct debit up again, and it couldnt do that for him. She 
didnt think had made a mistake, and said she wouldnt ask it to do anything more. 
Mr T wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall decision on this complaint as our investigator.
I do understand that Mr T is disappointed to have a late payment marker on his credit file, 
when he thought that his payment to his credit card was covered. But Barclaycard isnt 
allowed to keep his direct debit live, if he hasnt used the card in many years. The direct 
debit becomes dormant for the security of Mr Ts account. So I wouldnt expect a direct debit 
to still work, after this length of time. 
Mr T said that he understood it was Barclaycards responsibility to set up a new direct debit. 
But I dont think it was. It is supposed to warn him that his direct debit might not work any 
more. And I think it did that, as its drawn our attention to this point in a letter it sent. It told  
Mr T he needed to check that his direct debit was still valid if he started using his card again. 
So I also think that Mr T was warned that his direct debit may no longer work. 
Barclaycard has refunded Mr Ts late payment charge and interest. I dont think it also has to 
remove the missed payment marker on Mr Ts credit file. As Barclaycard said, it does have a 
responsibility to report factual information to the credit reference agencies. Thats part of the 
legal agreement between lenders and credit reference agencies.
I know Mr T will be disappointed, but I dont think that his complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman