DRN-3713731
The complaint
Mr M complains that Telefonica UK Limited didnt cancel a fixed sum loan hed asked it to
and that it subsequently acted unfairly in asking him to repay the lending.
What happened
Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan with Telefonica to cover the cost of a mobile phone in
October 2021. He was initially told the device was out of stock, but it would be sent when it
became available again. Mr M subsequently moved to a new address and says he told
Telefonica.
Ten days after entering into the agreement, Mr M asked Telefonica to cancel it. Mr M says
he was told it wasnt possible to do that whilst the device was out of stock, but a note about
his request would be left.
Mr M says the device was subsequently sent to his old address, where a former partner
lived. I understand that Mr M had asked his former partner to return the device but he was
unsuccessful. He says that after a number of attempts to obtain the device in order to return
it, he became aware that his former partner had been using it.
Mr M raised a complaint with Telefonica as he didnt think it would be fair, given what had
happened, to expect him to repay the lending. Telefonica issued an answer to the complaint
in late March 2022. It said that it believed the issue was a civil matter between Mr M and his
former partner. It wouldnt end the agreement without the device being returned.
Mr M referred the matter to this service. He asked for Telefonica to cancel the agreement,
remove adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies and compensate him
for the distress hed been caused.
In its submission to this service, Telefonica accepted that it ought to have cancelled Mr Ms
agreement at the first point hed asked it to. In recognition of this, it offered to clear the 
outstanding balance of the agreement, remove record of it from Mr Ms credit file and apply a
£50 credit to an unrelated airtime agreement he was using.
Our investigator initially concluded that Telefonicas offer was enough to put things right in
the circumstances. Mr M subsequently made a number of points about the impact things had
on him. Specifically he said; 
- hed been caused severe anxiety as a result of Telefonicas reluctance to remedy the
situation sooner, as well as having to contact his former partner as a result;
- hed been caused a financial loss as a result of petrol costs visiting his former partner 
twice;
- his credit worthiness had been affected as a result of information recorded by
Telefonica regarding missed payments; and
- he spent an unnecessary amount of time trying to resolve the issue and had to take
time away from work.
Our investigator discussed those issues further with Telefonica. Ultimately it increased the
level of compensation it had offered to £150.
Mr M didnt think that was enough compensation. He said that hed had to stop a mortgage
application and had a credit facility withdrawn as a result of the information recorded on his
credit file. Mr M said he should be paid £500 compensation as well as £100 to cover his
costs. He asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on it. In summary I said;
Mr Ms complaint is about a whether or not Telefonica has acted fairly in relation to a 
fixed sum loan. Thats a regulated agreement, and one which this service has the 
power to consider a complaint about.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im 
required take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
From whats been said I think all parties broadly agree on the events which led to this 
complaint. And it seems that Telefonica agrees that it needs to do something to put 
things right by ending the agreement without cost to Mr M and removing record of it 
from his credit file. I think Mr M agrees with this too. Whats left for me to decide is 
whether or not the compensation Telefonica has offered is appropriate.
Ive carefully considered everything thats been provided. Mr M might find that Ive 
represented his submissions in less detail than he gave them  I dont find it necessary 
to go into that level of detail in explaining what a fair outcome is, but I can nonetheless 
ensure Mr M Ive taken into account everything hes said.
I accept that Telefonica ought to have cancelled Mr Ms agreement at the first point hed 
asked it to. Had it done so, the impact on Mr M wouldve been mitigated. Mr M has given 
a plausible, persuasive and consistent version of events in relation the impact events 
have had on him.
I accept that the situation which arose as a result of Telefonicas error wouldve caused 
Mr M a lot of worry, as hes suggested. Particularly given what hes said about the 
nature of his relationship with is former partner. I also accept that worry was likely  and 
unnecessarily  exacerbated as a result of Telefonicas inaction of putting things right. 
The several months it took Telefonica to recognise its error mustve been a very 
worrying time for Mr M.
I understand why Mr M chose not to make payments towards the agreement. It seems 
that he had initially made an arrangement with his former partner insofar as payments 
as hes said they stopped making payments when the device was blocked. I 
understand that ultimately led to adverse information being recorded about the account 
with credit reference agencies.Its difficult to say to what extent the associated information recorded by Telefonica 
wouldve affected Mr Ms credit worthiness in the eyes of other lenders. Nonetheless, I 
accept that Mr M wouldve been worried about the presence of adverse information 
Telefonica had recorded with credit reference agencies and how it might be interpreted.
I agree that Mr M likely incurred some travel costs in trying to retrieve the device from 
his former partner. Its fair to say that Mr M incurred those costs reasonably in light of 
what hed been told by Telefonica. Its difficult to say exactly what those costs were, but 
Ive taken into account what Mr M has said in concluding what a reasonable amount of 
compensation would be.
Lastly, I agree that Mr M has spent longer than shouldve been necessary for him to 
rectify matters with Telefonica  he raised a complaint about the matter in November 
2021 and it took until April 2022 for Telefonica to accept its error. Im not persuaded 
that matters effectively prevented Mr M from working, or caused him a financial loss in 
that respect. But I accept that hes been caused a lot of trouble and upset in trying to 
resolve the situation.
Overall, taking everything Mr M has said about the impact of the events which led to 
this complaint had on him, costs he likely incurred and with specific regard for our 
approach to compensatory awards, I think a reasonable amount of compensation for 
Telefonica to pay Mr M would be £300.
I said that I intended to require Telefonica to;
-End the agreement at no cost to Mr M, cease pursuit of any sums owing 
under the agreement from Mr M and remove record of it with credit reference 
agencies;
-Pay Mr M £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision and said they had nothing furhter to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided comments or evidence which I consider materially new for my 
consideration. Given that, I find no reason to depart from my provisional findings and now 
make them final. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I require Telefonica UK Limited to;
- End Mr Ms agreement at no cost to him, cease pursuit of any sums owing 
under the agreement from Mr M and remove record of it with credit reference 
agencies;
- Pay Mr M £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman