DRN-4454603
The complaint
Mr S complains that PrePay Technologies Limited reviewed and then closed his account. He 
says this caused him unnecessary stress and worry for which he should be compensated.
What happened
Mr S had an account with Monese, one of PrePays agents. As the overall agreement was 
with Monese, and for ease of reading, Ill refer to Monese in this decision. 
On 10 September 2022, Monese reviewed Mr Ss account.  Whilst it did this Monese blocked 
the account, which meant Mr S wasnt able to use the account or access any funds that were 
in it. Mr S discovered that he was unable to use his account when he tried to log on to his 
internet banking. Believing it to be a technical issue he contacted Monese to try and find out 
what was happening. Monese explained that it was reviewing his account. 
Mr S contacted Monese and explained that he needed to access his wages which had been 
paid into his account to pay for everyday expenses and his rent. But Monese said it couldnt 
release any funds to Mr S until it had completed its review. Monese subsequently decided to 
close Mr Ss accounts immediately and released Mr Ss balance to him on 5 October 2022.  
Mr S complained to Monese. He explained that the banks actions had caused him a great 
deal of stress and that he wasnt able to go to work as he had no money to pay for his travel 
costs. He also said that he came close to being evicted from his home due to not having 
enough money to pay rent and had to borrow money for food. So, he said Monese should 
pay him compensation for the trouble and upset it caused by blocking his account. In 
response, Monese said it hadnt done anything wrong and had blocked Mr Ss account to 
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought his complaint to us. He said the block on his 
account and lack of access to his funds caused him a lot of problems. He explained that 
Moneses actions had led to sleepless nights, losing work and made his life a nightmare.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ss complaint. She said Monese had acted in line with 
their legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Ss account. And had closed it in 
line with the account terms. But she thought Monese should have allowed Mr S access to his 
wages. So, she said Monese should pay Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset Mr S had been 
caused by not having access to his salary.
Mr S agreed. Monese disagreed and said it hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and 
closed Mr Ss account. It said it had done so in line with its legal and regulatory obligations 
and had completed everything quickly. So, it didnt agree Mr S was entitled to any 
compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. After reviewing the 
evidence, I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Monese has provided is information that we considered 
should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr S, 
but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
I appreciate that Mr S is upset that Monese blocked his account. I can also understand that 
this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions made it difficult for him to 
sleep and caused him to worry about being evicted. But for me to uphold this complaint, I 
must be satisfied that  Monese has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it 
has. Ill explain why.
Monese has extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing 
account services to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to 
protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
Having reviewed all the evidence, including how Mr S was using his account, Im satisfied 
that Monese were acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it restricted 
Mr Ss account. The terms and conditions of Mr Ss account also permit Monese to restrict 
access to accounts. So, although I understand not having access to his account caused 
Mr S trouble and upset it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr S compensation since I 
dont believe Monese acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did when it blocked 
his account.  So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr S any compensation since 
Im satisfied that Monese havent acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did. 
I know Mr S feels Monese should have allowed him access to his salary payments that had 
been paid into his account, but that wasnt the only money in Mr Ss account. And it is 
important banks and financial businesses complete thorough investigations to ensure theyre 
adhering to their legal and regulatory obligations. I understand it was inconvenient for Mr S 
not to have access to his wages, but based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Monese 
were complying with their obligations when not allowing him access to his wages (and other 
funds). And I think they carried out the review, and removed the restriction, in a timely 
manner. 
Ive next gone on to consider whether Monese acted fairly when it closed Mr Ss account. Its 
generally for banks and financial businesses to decide whether or not they want to provide, 
or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very 
good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or 
require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. 
Monese have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Ss account. The terms 
explain that the bank can close the account immediately. Having looked at all the evidence, 
including how Mr S was operating his account, in my view that was reasonable. So, it was 
entitled to close the account as it has already done. Ive also kept in mind that Mr S had 
access to several other accounts, which wouldve minimised the impact of the immediate 
closure. So, I cant say Monese have acted unfairly in taking the actions it did. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was upsetting and stressful for Mr S when Monese blocked 
and closed his account. So, I realise Mr S will be disappointed by my decision. But overall, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Monese has acted unreasonably and treated 
Mr S unfairly when it blocked and closed his account. So, I wont be asking Monese to do 
anything, and I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Monese accepted my provisional decision. Mr S didnt respond. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or evidence for me to consider I see no 
reason to depart from my findings set out in my provisional decision.
In summary, I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, but I remain of the 
view that this complaint should not be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, which are repeated above and form part of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman