DRN-2859781
The complaint
 Mr Z says:
In December 2015 he opened a Forex/Contracts for Differences (CFD) trading 
account with a broker associated with Fortrade Limited (FL); he closed the account 
two months later in February 2016; FL then reactivated the account in February 2019 
and invited/enticed him to return to trading on the promise of trading guidance and 
advice, and on the promise of good trading outcomes.
His first experience was limited but negative, he managed to close the account in 
2016 in a broadly break-even position and he decided trading was not for him; 
however, in his second experience he incurred a total loss of around 15,000 Euros 
(including some borrowed capital) from the trading in 2019.
FL should not have enticed him to engage in trading in 2019 (because he lacked 
requisite knowledge and experience), should not have advised his trading given that 
it was not authorised to do so and should not have advised him negligently (in terms 
of his trading and in terms of exposing his personal and borrowed capital to 
trading/risks). FL is responsible for his financial loss  his trading was controlled by 
FLs recommendations  and he seeks compensation for this. 
What happened
 I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) for this complaint on 7 May 2021. The main 
provisional findings were: 
I note Mr Zs request for a review of evidence on his allegation that the support manager
advised and controlled his trading in 2019. I have gone beyond this  but remained within
the remit of the complaint  by considering afresh all the issues raised in his complaint. As
summarised above, the first issue is his claim that he was unduly enticed to engage in
trading in 2019, having previously decided that his negative experience between 2015 and
2016 was not good for him. He does not consider that FL should have done this.
This makes the matter of appropriateness (of the account in 2015 and 2019) unavoidable.
At the point of his application for the account in 2015 Mr Z was a novice, in terms of trading.
A copy of his account application document, from 2015, has been shared with this service
and it confirms that:
He had No previous knowledge of trading.
He had No previous Demo Experience of trading.
He had No previous CFD trading experience.
He had No other online trading experience  including his statement that he had  
never traded online before.
With the above knowledge and experience profile, the high risk CFD trading account could
not reasonably have been considered appropriate for Mr Z. It would not have been enough
to issue him with high risk warnings. As required by the regulator, it had to be established
that he had the knowledge and experience to properly understand what such high risks (and
warnings) meant in real terms. Mr Z did not have any knowledge or experience at the outset
of his account in 2015, so he would have lacked such an understanding. The account was 
therefore inappropriate for him at the time.
Whoever was responsible for assessing appropriateness in 2015  be that the IB or FL 
does not appear to have done so. As such no-one appears to have made the necessary
appropriateness assessment before beginning the service. The account was inappropriate 
for Mr Z and the account provider was under a duty to give him a warning in this respect. I 
have not seen evidence of such a warning.
This meant that, in 2019 and especially in the context of there being a fresh engagement (by 
Mr Z) with the account after three years of no such engagement, appropriateness should 
definitely have been assessed by FL. It appears that no such assessment happened in 2019 
too. I have not seen evidence of it. I also have not seen evidence that an inappropriateness 
warning was given to Mr Z in 2019, which is consistent with the absence of an 
appropriateness assessment at the time. That warning should have been given because the 
account was, again, inappropriate for him in 2019, for the following reasons:
Available evidence is that he had no trading experience in the 12 months prior to 
reactivation of the account in February 2019; he had no trading experience in the 
three years prior to that reactivation; and he had arguably very limited trading 
experience in the five years prior to that reactivation. Knowledge and experience over 
these time periods are commonly used and commonly important in appropriateness 
assessments.
His trading experience in the five years prior to February 2019 was no more than his 
trading in the two months between December 2015 and February 2016, during which 
he traded only in fractions of a lot  0.13 being his largest trading lot size  and in 
which he made individual profits and losses mainly to the arguably negligible values 
of cents and single digit Euros. The experience, as whole, was equally arguably 
negligible. It was also an experience that he considered negative enough to deter 
him and to prompt him to stop trading and to close the account (which is what he 
says he believed he had done at the time).
I do not consider that a high risk CFD trading account could reasonably have been 
appropriate for Mr Z in 2019 with the above profile.
In the event that FL disputes the above provisional conclusion  and whilst I presently retain
that conclusion  I have also considered the alternative scenario of Mr Z insisting to proceed
with the account in 2019 despite being warned it was inappropriate for him. As stated earlier,
the regulator gives a firm discretion to allow a client to proceed with an inappropriate
service/product, so long as a warning has been given. However, as also set out by the
regulator, that discretion should be exercised with due regard to the relevant circumstances.
In the overall circumstances summarised above  and especially the fact that Mr Z had a
previous limited but negative trading experience that deterred him from trading for the next
three years  I do not consider that FL could reasonably have exercised its discretion to
allow him to proceed with an inappropriate high risk CFD trading account. The finding of
inappropriateness, alone, would have been a red flag to note, and the facts of Mr Zs
previous experience would then have been a significant compounding factor  such facts
being what FL would have identified and considered in the course of an appropriateness
assessment process.Both parties were invited to comment on the PD. Mr Z accepted it, but FL did not. FL mainly 
said as follows:
Mr Z gave conflicting information at the outset, in 2015. Despite declaring that he had 
no trading experience he also submitted a document that showed he had a previous 
investment of almost 200,000 shares in a fund and that his investment was worth 
almost 11,000 Euros.
His trading in 2015/2016 was limited because of the 100 Euros he deposited and 
traded upon; nevertheless, it served as trading experience that was very relevant to 
reactivation of the account in 2019; and the trading experience he had was not 
negative  especially as it appears to have prompted him to reactivate the account in 
2019. There is no question about his eagerness to reactivate the account, given the 
succession of emails, information and documents he sent to FL at time, pursuant 
towards the reactivation.
His experience in 2015/2016 amounted to experience of the same trading, in the 
same CFD product and on the same platform as he resumed in 2019; regardless of 
the size of trading in the former and regardless of the timeframe between the periods, 
due weight should be given to this fact; this meant he knew about CFD trading and 
knew how it worked.
His account was reviewed in April 2019 and an inappropriateness warning was 
issued to him; he expressly waived the warning and requested to continue with the 
account; and there was no valid reason for FL to reject the accounts reactivation or 
to close it thereafter. 
FL made other comments but, overall, they broadly relate more to trading matters and not to 
the pre-trading period(s) in which appropriateness is to be assessed. FL also referred to risk 
warnings issued to Mr Z.
The case was returned to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the complaint and I have given due consideration to the submissions made 
by FL. Having done so, I have not been persuaded to depart from the findings and 
conclusion in the PD. I retain those findings and conclusion, and I incorporate them into this 
decision. In addition, I note as follows: 
The provisional finding that no appropriateness assessment was conducted in 2015 
appears to be intact. FL has not disputed this, and it remains the case that there is no 
evidence to the contrary. For the reasons given in the PD  and quoted above  I 
retain the finding that the account (and CFD trading) was inappropriate for him in 
2015 and he should have been warned about that  which did not happen. 
I understand FLs assertion that Mr Z had previous investment experience in 2015. 
Even if that was the case a number of counter points arise  experience in 
investments is not the same as experience in trading; the former has a longer term 
nature and reflects the pursuit to be a part of  and to reap the financial benefits of  longer term growth and/or success in the investee company or fund; the latter 
features a much shorter term outlook and objective, to make profit on short (or 
shorter) term market movements; to Mr Zs credit his responses (as quoted above) 
were that he had no previous trading knowledge and experience, so I am not 
persuaded that he presented the conflicted position that FL says he did; and FLs 
argument appears to be inherently redundant given that no-one assessed 
appropriateness in 2015, so it does not appear that anyone was confused at the time 
by the conflicted position it alleges or that anyone at the time looked into what 
experience Mr Z had (in the context of appropriateness).
Any eagerness Mr Z allegedly had in 2019 to reactivate the account is not as pivotal 
as FL appears to believe. Whether (or not) the reactivation was initiated by him 
and/or he was eager to resume CFD trading, because appropriateness had not been 
assessed at the outset in 2015 it remained an outstanding responsibility that needed 
to be addressed in 2019. The provisional finding that no appropriateness assessment 
was conducted at the outset of the reactivation in 2019 also appears to be intact. The 
review in April 2019 that FL mentions was around two months after trading had 
begun in February in the reactivated account  so it cannot be said that the review 
served as the requisite assessment. 
I am satisfied that, in the absence of evidence of relevant experience (and, it 
appears, of any trading experience) in the three years between the 2015 and 2019 
account periods, the account remained inappropriate for Mr Z in February 2019 as it 
was in December 2015 when he first opened it. FL says the two months worth of 
experience that he had between 2015 and 2016 should be given due weight. I 
consider that the PD gave this period the weight it deserved. The facts of the 
experience were set out and they are not in dispute. The issue is that, it remains no 
more than a period of only two months in which Mr Z traded CFDs  having never 
previously done so and, it appears, having never previously traded (distinct from 
invested, as distinguished above)  and in which he traded in arguably negligible 
sizes and values, and with equally negligible financial outcomes (as described in the 
PD). Adding a period of three years of inactivity to this arguably minimal two months 
experience does not, in my view, amount to overall experience of notable worth  
and does not amount to evidence that, in 2019, Mr Z had the requisite level of 
knowledge and experience of CFD trading that FL has sought to argue. I consider 
that he did not.
FLs reference to an inappropriateness warning in April 2019 was already reflected in 
the PD  the relevant content is not quoted above, but both parties have copies of 
the full PD and they will be aware that the PDs background section mentioned this 
inappropriateness warning. A similar point applies to FLs reference to risk warnings, 
this was addressed in the PD (as quoted above) and the finding was that they did not 
dilute the appropriateness assessment obligation. 
As quoted above, with reasons, I found in the PD that even if Mr Z had been warned 
and even if he sought to waive the warning, FL should not have proceeded to grant 
him the account. I retain this finding (and reasons) and I do not consider that FL has 
presented anything to alter my view.
Putting things right
 As I said in the PD   Mr Z should never have been granted use of the account in 2019. Had that happened  
that is, had he not been able to use the account  I have not seen evidence that he would 
have sought a CFD/Forex trading account elsewhere. Nor have I seen evidence that, but for 
what happened between him and FL, he held any interest in engaging in CFD or Forex 
trading at the time. As such, all his loss of capital (both personal and borrowed) that was 
invested in the account in 2019 could and should have been avoided and I provisionally 
conclude that FL is responsible for the opposite being the case.
In terms of redress, my provisional conclusions are that FL is responsible for compensating
Mr Z for his total capital loss in the account during 2019; because I have not seen evidence
that he would have allocated that total capital to trading or investments elsewhere I consider
that it would have been used personally, so FL is responsible for also compensating him for
the loss of use of that capital from when they were incurred up to the date of settlement, by
paying him interest on each relevant loss at the rate of 8% simple per year from when each
loss was incurred up to the date of settlement (in the final decision I could consider, if given
reason to do so, the simpler alternative of applying interest for the total capital loss from the
end date of all Mr Zs losses in 2019 to the date of settlement); and FL is responsible for
paying Mr Z £300 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused him.
I retain and affirm the above as final findings for redress in Mr Zs case. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Zs complaint and I order Fortrade Limited to pay 
him compensation as set out above, and to provide him with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format. I also order Fortrade Limited to pay him £300 for 
the trouble and upset the matter has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman