DRN-2445934
The complaint
 Mr D is unhappy with the way that St Andrew's Insurance Plc has handled his home
insurance claim for water damage to his property. 
What happened
Mr D made a claim to St Andrews following a leak from a burst pipe. He appointed a firm of
loss assessors to act for him and arrangements were made for drying out to take place. The
damage wasnt assessed to be very great. But there were substantial delays as St Andrews
couldnt get in touch with Mr Ds loss assessor. Drying out was completed in July 2019.
Shortly after that Mr D advised St Andrews that the loss assessor was no longer working for
him. St Andrews issued final response letters in May and August 2019, and paid a total of
£90 compensation. Mr and Mrs D were particularly upset about the delays and that St
Andrews wouldnt offer alternative accommodation (AA) for them. Mr D advised that the
situation was causing health problems for them, but St Andrews believed their property to
be habitable and dry. It was prepared to reconsider if they got a doctors note, but Mr D was
reluctant to incur the cost of that.
For reasons which I shall explain, Im looking only at the complaints up until the date of the
final response letter of 5 August 2019. Our investigator considered events beyond that
timeline, but did recommend a payment of £200 (total) compensation, which St Andrews
was willing to agree to in so far as it concerned delays for dealing with the contents including
electrical and computing items (which occurred before the 5 August response).
As matters had progressed since then, Mr D was unwilling to accept the investigators view,
and the matter was passed to me for further consideration. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it said that the proposed £200 compensation was in my 
view reasonable. As the investigator considered other matters (which are now the subject of  
a subsequent complaint to St Andrews) my decision was confined to considering matters up 
until the final response letter of 5 August 2019.
Lloyds accepted my decision. Mr D didnt accept it but has made no further comment on the 
issues I considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
scope of this decision
As Ive said Im only dealing with the matter up until the date of the final response letter in
August 2019. This is partly because St Andrews hasnt consented to us looking at issues
beyond that date, and partly because the claim is still continuing. In particular St Andrews
has since offered Mr D a cash settlement, which he doesnt think is sufficient. But there are
issues over whether St Andrews is willing to do the repairs, which I understand depends on
its contractors. The question of what a fair settlement might be depends in my view on what
the outcome of that is. In particular at this stage I cant say whether it would be fair to expect
Mr D to accept a cash settlement based on the amount St Andrews would pay its
contractors. I bear in mind that Mr D is no longer instructing loss assessors. I understand
that St Andrews did open a new complaint in May 2020 to consider the issues which have
arisen since its 5 August 2018 response and up until then. If Mr D wishes to pursue a
complaint about the fairness or otherwise of the proposed settlement and/or about any
issues which have arisen since May 2020, he should raise a further complaint with St
Andrews so it can look into those issues.
delays
There were some delays in the early stages of dealing with this claim. For the most part
those delays were caused by the loss assessor not responding or progressing the matter. I
do think St Andrews could have been more proactive in this respect. The drying certificate
became available in July but Mr D wasnt told of this until he complained, early in August
2019.
There were further delays in dealing with the assessment of the items of electrical/computing
equipment Mr D wanted replacing. Those delays continued up until after he made his
complaint to us in November 2019, but as Ive said Im only looking at the delays up until
August 2019.
alternative accommodation (AA)
Mr D asserted from the start that they needed AA, and as the matter continued advised that
he and his wife were suffering from health problems. Firstly AA isnt usually offered unless
the property becomes uninhabitable. By that we generally mean a lack of access to cooking
and/or washing facilities. In this case, the escape of water was fairly minor and didnt affect
the access to such facilities.
In some cases due to issues affecting the health of the occupants we might say it would be
fair to offer AA. St Andrews assessed the property as mostly dry so queried whether the
state of it should have affected their health. It agreed it would review that if Mr D obtained a
doctors letter. But he was reluctant to pay the cost of that. I think bearing in mind the nature
of the damage it was fair for St Andrews to query this and to ask for a doctors letter. It was
willing to consider the cost of that letter if it decided to offer such AA. It does appear from
what Mr D says that the health issues are caused by stress which the provision of AA
wouldnt help. Nonetheless I think St Andrews position was reasonable in this respect.
compensation
Our investigator proposed that St Andrews pay £200 compensation. This includes the £90
already paid. I think that fairly reflects the issues over the delays Ive identified in this
decision.  
Mr F has made no substantive comments on the issues set out in my decision. I understand 
that the claim has progressed since then and he has obtained a quote from a contractor. But 
he will need to take that up with St Andrews.
Otherwise I remain satisfied by my provisional findings as set out above and these now form 
part of this final decision.My final decision
 I uphold the complaint in part and require St Andrew's Insurance Plc to pay to Mr D a further 
£110 compensation (making total compensation of £200).
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman