DRN-4429735
The complaint
Mr F complains about Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FRLS) and the service theyve 
provided him since he instructed them to pursue a claim for a mis-sold pension on his behalf.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr F instructed FRLS to pursue a claim for a mis-sold pension on his behalf. 
Mr F has said he was told it may take up for a year from this date for a decision to be 
reached. But he didnt hear anything more from FRLS, despite several chasers requesting 
an update. So, in March 2023, Mr F raised a complaint about the lack of progress, and lack 
of updates, on his claim. FRLS didnt respond to Mr Fs complaint and so, he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, and they asked FRLS to provide evidence 
showing the work they had completed on the claim. But FRLS didnt respond. So, our 
investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint on this basis, on the assumption no work of value had 
been completed. And they recommended FRLS pay Mr F £200, and provide Mr F with an 
update, or cancel the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr F accepted this recommendation. And so did FRLS in August 2023, stating they would 
pay the compensation and provide Mr F with an update. But by November, Mr F had yet to 
receive an update, or compensation. So, as FRLS didnt comply with the terms of the 
agreement reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note FRLS initially accepted our investigators recommendation. So, by doing so, I think 
FRLS accepted they had acted unfairly when progressing Mr Fs claim, and the way they 
communicated with him during this time. So, I dont think this is in dispute, and I dont intend 
the discuss the merits of the complaint in any further detail. Instead, Ive focused on what 
does remain in dispute, which is what FRLS should do to put things right, as theyve failed to 
comply with the agreement reached with Mr F, and our investigator.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended FRLS pay Mr F £200 to recognise the failure to progress his 
claim, and keep him updated, based on the lack of information they provided. I think this 
recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what I 
wouldve directed, had it not already been put forward.
I think it takes into consideration the inconvenience Mr F wouldve been caused by the 
delays, and his frustration when he failed to receive responses to his chases for contact. But 
I think it also takes into consideration the fact we have no way of knowing that Mr Fs claim 
wouldve been completed, or successful, had FRLS acted fairly and reasonably. So, Im 
directing FRLS to pay Mr F this amount, noting they have already agreed to do so 
previously.
Our investigator also recommended that FRLS either provide Mr F with a meaningful update 
or cancel the agreement. I note FRLS agreed to provide Mr F with an update in August 
2023. But, as of November 2023, Ive seen no evidence to show this update was provided. 
So, I think FRLS have been given ample opportunity to provide this and because of this, I 
dont think it would be reasonable for me to offer them this opportunity again.
So, I think FRLS should now follow the other option put forward by the investigator, which is 
to cancel the agreement between themselves and Mr F, so Mr F is able to progress his claim 
either individually, or with another company offering that service. And as Ive seen no 
evidence to show FRLS completed any work of value, I would expect this cancellation to be 
at no cost to Mr F.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint and I direct them to take the 
following action:
Pay Mr F £200; and
Cancel the agreement between themselves and Mr F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman