DRN-2813398
The complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt refunded money to her 
following a chargeback.
What happened
Miss W says she asked Halifax to raise a chargeback in respect of gym fees. She says she 
agreed a payment freeze with her gym provider for three months before later cancelling her 
agreement. Miss W says she was told she would receive the three months worth of fees that 
were frozen refunded, which amounted to just over £553. She says she asked Halifax to 
raise a chargeback which it did but later rejected it.
Halifax says it raised a chargeback, but it was successfully defended. It says the evidence it 
received showed that the gym acted in line with the membership agreement about fees 
being frozen for three months and that period being added to the expired membership 
period. It also thought a gym member needed to have been a member for 12 months before 
any frozen fees could be refunded and Miss W didnt meet that criteria.
Miss W brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained the chargeback rules and thought Halifax had acted fairly by raising the 
chargeback and by concluding that the gym had acted in line with the membership 
agreement. The investigator thought that if the gym had misled Miss W then that was an 
issue she would need to raise with it, and that Halifax was entitled to consider the agreement 
which Miss W was given at the start of her membership.
Miss W doesnt accept that view and says she could have cancelled the membership as she 
moved 25 miles away and says she effectively prepaid for the membership which means she 
is entitled to a refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss W will be disappointed by my decision.
A chargeback is not a right, but a voluntary scheme run by the card providers and not 
Halifax. We normally take the view that a chargeback should be raised where there are 
reasonable grounds for doing so. Im satisfied that Halifax did raise a chargeback for Miss 
W, but that chargeback was successfully defended by the merchant (the gym). In those 
circumstances I find that Halifax fairly decided that it could no longer continue with the 
chargeback. Im satisfied that Halifax was given a copy of the gym membership agreement 
about the freezing of fees and was reasonably entitled to conclude that the gym had acted in 
line with that agreement on this issue. I make clear to Miss W that its not our role to decide 
which party ought to have won any dispute but to be satisfied as I am that Halifax has 
followed the chargeback rules.
I appreciate Miss W questions if she had made a prepayment or if she could have cancelled 
her contract on the basis she had moved 25 miles away from the gym. But those are not 
issues I need to decide upon, and Miss W will need to raise those matters with the gym. I 
have made clear that I think Halifax was reasonably entitled based on the evidence it 
received that it couldnt take the chargeback any further than it did.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax fairly raised a chargeback and tried to assist Miss W. I find this 
brings and end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman