DRN-4031229
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service provided by Cofunds Limited, referred to as Cofunds or 
the business.   
In summary, hes unhappy about the following:
Access to significantly less funds with Cofunds. 
Inaccurate fund price on the platform.
Deposits going missing without satisfactory explanation.  
Delayed responses to emails. 
Compensation in the sum of £250 offered by the business. 
What happened
The business upheld the complaint on the basis that it made mistakes as a result of IT 
issues. Otherwise, Mr S shouldnt have been allowed to open an ISA account on 10 
November 2020, and the 71M fund also shouldnt have been included on the list of funds 
available to invest in. On 22 June 2021, it offered Mr S £250 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the error.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Based on the responses provided by the business  dated 1 November 2021, 5 
March 2021, 22 June 2021, 23 November 2021, and 27 February 2022  shes 
satisfied that the business has dealt with the issues raised. 
As an Investor Portfolio Service (IPS) customer Mr S can invest directly without 
financial advice, thats why he has access to a smaller number of funds.
Cofunds policy is that he can have access to a full list of funds, but hed have to 
appoint a financial adviser. This is due to the risks associated with the investments. 
Its a matter for Cofunds how it runs its affairs this isnt something that our service 
can interfere with. In any case, Cofunds made clear that if Mr S still wants access to 
a wider range of funds, hed have to look for a platform that can accommodate this or 
alternatively appoint a financial adviser, like he used to when he had a access to a 
wider range of funds. 
Cofunds has explained to Mr S that it doesnt operate like the stock market. The 
valuation point and fund prices on the Cofunds portal are based on the previous 
days prices  in other words its not a live trading platform.  
Market movements dont always guarantee the same unit price everyday so there 
can be discrepancies in the value. 
Trade prices also arent reflected until the system is updated, so Fridays prices will 
show over Saturday, Sunday, and Monday  and Mondays price will show from 
Tuesday. 
Mr S can see this information direct on the transaction history in respect of any 
trades placed, however the valuation reports are a further day behind as they 
generate these the following day to capture the unit price. 
Cofunds also explained that a fund switch can take five working days  its industry 
standard  during which time Mr S wont be able to place further trades on monies 
hes investing. And hell need to wait for these to settle before placing further trades. 
Despite what Mr S says about his £300 deposit the evidence suggests that this was 
the proceeds of sale units. 
Mr S held several ISA and General Investment (GIA) accounts with Cofunds  once 
opened with a well-known Building Society  known as IPS. Although he wanted to 
merge all accounts into a Cofunds account this wasnt possible, and this was 
explained to him in an email dated 5 March 2021.
The business informed Mr S that on 18 January 2022 he sold down all his holdings in 
IPS GIA (in the sum of £302.42) to move to his Cofunds GIA. 
On 25 January 2021, he reinvested the monies held in cash and purchased two 
funds for £152.21 each. The business made a corrective adjustment, to move the 
cash from his Cofunds GIA, and this caused his GIA to go into a -£302.42. 
On 26 January 2021, £302.42 was moved from the GIA to Mr Ss Cofunds ISA, and 
he later invested £302.42 with Cofunds ISA online in the Global Asia Fund. 
On 3 February 2021, the business emailed Mr S asking why the units were brought 
on 25 January 2021, and sold down 100% of the units, realising £304.87 to the 
correct account. The funds were then returned to the Cofunds GIA. 
In relation to the £400 investment, the business acted in line with the instructions it 
held for Mr S, it also invested in line with the strategy he put in place.  
Mr S emailed the business over 30 times and made numerous phone calls, including 
calling the business multiple times the same day. 
Despite what Mr S says, the complaint handling rules allow the business eight weeks 
to provide a final response and Cofunds has responded within time. 
The £250 compensation offered in relation to the errors is fair and reasonable. Our 
guidance recommends awards up to £300 for repeated small errors, or a larger 
single mistake requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. These typically results in an 
impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause either some distress, 
inconvenience, disappointment, or loss of expectation. 
Mr S is trading without advice, which can be confusing, but Cofunds helped him 
through the process. On balance, shes unable to say that it didnt help Mr S through 
the process.  
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following key points:
The GIA came out when he re-set the fund. The business said that his wife would 
have her own fund  this took six weeks to set up. 
The business changed the account from an ISA and wouldnt change back despite 
him asking  so they implemented the changes themselves.
The business never explained what went wrong with the £300. 
Despite what the investigator says, his records show he contacted the business 36 
times (via email) in the first six months. It always takes a long time to reply but then 
doesnt answer the questions. 
It took a long time (maybe six months) to find out why he couldnt find out about the 
funds. In other words, it took the business ages and many emails. 
It was after 2012 that he started doing his own funds/investments. He figured hed 
get the same outcome, without having to pay someone for the service, so he thought 
he may as well do it himself.
When the previous business was taken over by Cofunds he had to navigate 
everything himself. 
Has the investigator found out why he cant use the main fund after the predecessor 
business was sold off to Aegon?He doesnt understand why the business is still sending him paperwork in the post. 
Credit to all the people on the phones who are the only people who answer his 
questions. But when he sends a follow up email in relation to a further enquiry, hes 
left waiting. 
The business tells him it has investigated, and theres no fault but cant say what 
went wrong. 
He and his wife did at one point have £1200 in Aegon but have taken most of it out. 
Its better not to make any money than to lose money and have to pay someone for 
this. 
He wants an ombudsmans decision just in case weve seen similar issues.  
The investigator having considered the issues, wasnt persuaded to change her mind. 
I sought clarification regarding whether or not the compensation had been paid. Based on Mr 
Ss response I understand that the compensation has been paid but Mr S remained unhappy 
with the overall resolution as well as having some additional issues so subsequently referred 
the complaint to our service. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
Because the business upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is redress, and 
whether (or not) its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so, I agree with 
the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. In other words, Im not going to 
uphold this complaint because the £250 compensation already paid by the business is 
broadly fair and reasonable. 
Before I explain further why Im not upholding this complaint, I think its important for me to 
recognise Mr Ss frustration and strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by them and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I appreciate Mr S says that he suffered a financial loss, but Im not satisfied that he did, or if 
he did (because of changes in the financial marketplace) Im not persuaded that the 
business is responsible for any losses. I cant say that any of the errors, primarily relating to 
IT issues, caused Mr S any financial loss. Different financial businesses operate under different business models which they are 
entitled to. As long as theyre not behaving unreasonably its not for us to tell a business how 
to run its affairs. In the circumstances I cant blame Cofunds for not offering the same range 
of funds for those investors without a financial adviser, because of the risk to investors. 
In other words, a business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement, to decide the conditions under which it offers investment opportunities  
including the number and type of funds. As I mentioned above, its not for us to tell a 
business how it should run its affairs. So, I cant say that the business has done anything 
wrong by offering a smaller number of funds under the IPS for investors without a financial 
adviser. In my opinion, this isnt the same as simply not offering a range of products. I 
appreciate Mr S says hes unhappy that he previously had access to over 100 funds but now 
he only has 20 but the business has made clear that if he wants access to a wider range of 
funds hed need a financial adviser.  
 
Despite what Mr S says, I note the platform doesnt operate like the stockmarket  I 
understand that it isnt a live trading platform. I also note that valuation points and fund 
prices on the portal are based on the previous days price. 
Im also mindful that there can be value discrepancies because market movement doesnt 
always guarantee the same unit price every day, and prices arent reflected until the system 
is updated. This might explain why Mr S thought he was being provided with inaccurate fund 
prices, but it doesnt mean that the business caused any loss.   
The above notwithstanding, on balance Im satisfied that the errors were primarily down to IT 
issues, and its also arguable that this was outside of the control of the business. In any 
case, the business offered compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, which I 
think is broadly fair and reasonable  for the reasons as set out by the investigator and 
referenced in the background of my decision. In other words, Im satisfied that the 
compensation  in respect of small errors that were addressed within a reasonably short 
space of time  is broadly fair and reasonable.
I note the business in its final response dated June 2021 stated:
Im sorry we didnt make it clear that as an Investor Portfolio Service (IPS) customer you 
should only have access to 59 funds rather than the full available funds to Aegon Cofunds 
customers. As IPS is closed for new business we shouldnt have allowed you to open your 
ISA on 10 November 2020. This is our I.T. issue and were looking into rectifying this. For 
your information, our Aegon Cofunds business is only available through an intermediary as 
we dont sell direct to our customers.
Yesterday I sent Mr S (name anonymised) a link to the funds available to you, the 7IM funds 
we are displaying arent actually funds available and this is part of our I.T. issue.
As a result of the inconvenience weve caused you, Ive today sent you £250 to the account 
details you provided me with yesterday. I hope youll accept this with our apologies and best 
wishes. 
I appreciate Mr S doesnt agree with the businesss explanation or offer but in the 
circumstances and on balance, I dont think its response is unreasonable. 
Based on what the business says, I cant safely say that any of Mr Ss deposits have gone 
missing and/or were appropriated by the business. For example, in relation to the £300/£400 
deposit (and his compute/monitor screen locking), I cant see how thats the businesss fault 
as the issues seems more likely than not to be at his end with his computer/monitor. That 
said, Im satisfied that other issues mentioned (and conceded by the business) were more likely than not to do with IT issues at the businesss end which it tried to help Mr S navigate 
through and assist with fulfilling his investment strategy. 
Im mindful that Mr S speaks highly of the assistance he received from the business on the 
telephone, but that this wasnt as effective through email correspondence which I understand 
the business has acknowledged. Nevertheless, on balance Im broadly satisfied that the 
business endeavoured to assist him. Im mindful of the call he received after the business 
tried numerous times to get in touch with him but couldnt. Although Mr S doesnt believe the 
business tried to call him beforehand, Ive seen nothing that has led me to disbelieve the 
businesss account. In other words, and on balance, Im satisfied that it did try and call him 
as it has said.   
Im aware Mr S disagrees that the problem might be at his end, with his laptop or his internet 
service provider, but I cant rule this out. I note he was able to access the portal through his 
email which suggests that internet explorer and Chrome mightve been part of the cause.  
Based on what Mr S says, it seems that he doesnt necessarily agree with Cofunds taking 
over the predecessor business. Be that as it may, its not something that our organisation 
can get involved in. A business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate 
commercial judgement, to acquire another business and run its affairs as it pleases. In other 
words, subject to any specific agreement between the businesses, there isnt generally an 
obligation on the acquiring business to continue to provide the same service  and any 
previous agreement a customer may have had with a predecessor business isnt necessarily 
valid. 
In addition to the above points, there can also be a number of (inevitable) teething problems 
 usually as result of IT issues  until the dust settles as it were, during which time a 
customer can choose to take their business elsewhere as this isnt an uncommon 
occurrence during these processes. 
   
Im aware that due to his unhappiness with the business Mr S has moved most (if not all) of 
his funds. Hes entitled to take his investment elsewhere if thats what he chooses to do. Like 
Mr S, the business also isnt obliged to provide him with the opportunity to invest if it doesnt 
want to, and I cant force it to do so  Im mindful of the broad background to this case from 
2017 and the dispute relating charges.  
I appreciate that Mr S probably isnt happy about the way his complaint has been dealt with 
by the business. But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and therefore isnt 
something that I can consider. 
I appreciate Mr S will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Cofunds Limited paid Mr S £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
which I think is broadly fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 Dara Islam
Ombudsman