DRN-2908835
The complaint
A Company which Ill refer to as E complains that American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) unfairly declined a claim under its business protection insurance policy.
Mrs G who is a director of E brings the complaint on Es behalf.
What happened
E holds a business protection insurance policy with AIG. Mrs G made a claim on that policy 
to cover her losses arising from the business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
AIG declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Mrs G didnt agree. She said she thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording 
for Prevention of Access, meant that her claim should be covered.
Mrs G complained to AIG but it explained that, although the policy would provide cover in the 
event of certain diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named diseases. 
Mrs G wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Es complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathises with Mrs Gs situation, he didnt think there was cover available under 
the policy. Mrs G didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mrs Gs business, but I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs G is looking to claim on Es business protection insurance policy. These types of policies 
offer protection from risks common to business, but these are a range of business protection 
insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. When considering 
whether AIG acted fairly in declining Es claim, the starting point is to consider the specific 
policy Mrs G took out. 
Having reviewed Es policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for the 
closure of her business as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
However, I would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which appear most 
relevant provide cover.
Specified Disease
Es policy included cover for Specified Disease. The policy states that it would provide cover 
for business interruption as a result of Loss arising from restrictions on the use of the 
premises on the order or advice of the competent local authority due to:any occurrence of 
a specified disease at the premises or attributable to food or drink supplied from the 
premises.
The policy provides a definition for Specified Disease, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something AIG would have known about when the policy was 
drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the 
pandemic  usually policies that cover all Notifiable Diseases, which are set out and updated 
on a Government defined list. In contrast, Es policy sets out a specific list of illnesses which 
are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is nothing which 
implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might 
emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the specific 
illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as covering any 
illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
Prevention of Access
Es policy also includes an extension for Prevention of Access. The policy states that it 
covers loss resulting from Damage to property in the vicinity of the premises or the property, 
which prevents or hinders the use of the premises or the property or access thereto, 
regardless of whether the premises or property is damaged. 
And Damage is defined as physical loss or destruction of or physical damage to tangible
property.
I dont think anything in that wording extends to damage caused to the business itself by way 
of a specified illness or disease such as COVID-19, or even a Government-imposed act. 
Rather, this term refers to physical damage or loss and I havent seen anything to indicate 
that COVID-19 caused damage to property  so I dont think this section covers Es claim.
So while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the Government-imposed lockdown had 
on Mrs G, having taken all of this into account and having considered the remaining terms of 
the policy, I dont think AIG acted unfairly in declining her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman