DRN-4413460
The complaint
Mr T complains that ActiveQuote Limited (AQ) mis-sold him an income protection insurance 
policy.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr T spoke with AQs adviser because he wanted to take out a policy which 
would provide protection for his mortgage if he became unable to work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment. During the call, Mr T told AQs adviser that he had a permanent 
employed role, but that he also owned his own business. The adviser recommended that Mr 
T should take out an accident, sickness and unemployment income protection insurance 
policy. Mr T accepted the advisers recommendation and took out the policy.
Unfortunately, Mr T was later made redundant from his permanent role and so he looked into 
making a claim on the policy. However, he learned that in order to make a successful 
unemployment claim, hed need to be totally unemployed. As he also owned an actively-
trading business, Mr T wasnt totally unemployed and therefore, couldnt make a claim on 
the policy.
Mr T was unhappy with the advice hed been given by AQ and so he complained. AQ 
accepted that its adviser should have clearly highlighted the unemployment terms to Mr T at 
the time of sale and so it offered to pay him £300 compensation.
Remaining unhappy with AQs offer, Mr T asked us to look into his complaint. He considered 
that AQ should pay him compensation equivalent to the amount hed have been paid out for 
a valid unemployment claim, together with a refund of premiums.
Our investigator felt that AQ had mis-sold the policy to Mr T. She considered that the 
unemployment terms should have been drawn to his attention at the time of sale. So she 
recommended that AQ should refund the premiums Mr T had paid for the policy, together 
with interest.
However, she didnt agree that AQ should pay Mr T compensation to the value of any 
successful claim. Thats because she didnt think there was any policy available on the 
market which would have covered Mr Ts employment situation. So she didnt think hed 
have been able to take out an alternative policy which would have paid out in Mr Ts 
circumstances.
AQ accepted the investigators view. 
Mr T said he was prepared to accept a premium refund as a start. He agreed that hed have 
been unlikely to have been able to find alternative cover. However, he said hed been 
reassured by AQs adviser that he would be covered by the policy and hed paid premiums 
to prevent the stress and financial burden if he became unemployed. He didnt think it was 
material whether he could have found alternative cover elsewhere  he felt it would be fair 
and reasonable to direct AQ to make good its advice.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, I agree with our investigator that the fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for AQ to pay Mr T a refund of his policy 
premiums, together with interest. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules set out the obligations placed on brokers (and insurers) when 
they sell contracts of insurance. Its common ground that AQ advised Mr T to take out this 
policy. So AQ was required to carry out an assessment of his demands and needs and to 
ensure that its recommendation was suitable for him. It also needed to give Mr T enough 
clear, fair and not misleading information so that he could decide if the policy was right for 
him.
Ive listened carefully to the sales call between Mr T and AQs adviser. Mr T clearly 
explained the type of cover he wanted and he explained his employment situation. The 
adviser understood Mr T had two roles and the cover he was looking for. Im satisfied that 
AQs adviser knew that Mr T wanted to protect his mortgage if he lost his permanent job.  
However, under the terms of the policy the adviser recommended, Mr T would only have 
been able to make a successful unemployment claim if he not only lost his employed role, 
but also if his own business totally ceased trading. So I find that the policy the adviser 
recommended was clearly unsuitable for Mr Ts identified needs. Nor did the adviser 
highlight the unemployment terms to Mr T during the sales process. 
In my view, if Mr T had known the policy wouldnt provide the cover he wanted it to, I think 
its unlikely hed have taken it out at all. As such then, Im satisfied that AQs adviser did mis-
sell the income protection insurance policy to Mr T. So I now need to consider what I think 
fair compensation should be and Ill explore this further below.
Mr T feels strongly that his financial loss is equal to the value of a valid unemployment claim 
 broadly £20,000. He therefore considers that AQ should pay him compensation of around 
this sum to make good on the advice he was given. Ive thought about this very carefully. 
However, in deciding what I think fair compensation should be, I need to consider what, if 
any, financial loss AQs mis-advice has caused Mr T to suffer. I dont think it would be fair, 
reasonable or proportionate for me to direct AQ to pay Mr T compensation to the value of his 
claim if he would never have been able to find an insurance policy which would have 
covered his situation. Thats because his claim could never have been paid out, irrespective 
of any assurance AQ gave him that his situation would be covered.
In my experience, most, if not all, income protection insurers will only pay unemployment 
claims where a policyholder is totally unemployed. This means that in order for Mr T to have 
been able to make a successful unemployment under most, if not all, income protection 
insurance policies, hed have needed to have been made unemployed from his employed 
role and his own business would have needed to have ceased trading. So it follows that I 
dont think Mr T would have been able to find an income protection insurance policy which 
would have covered his particular situation. Mr T appears to accept this point. And therefore, 
I dont think its likely, on balance, that hed have been able to make a successful claim on 
any policy at the point he was made redundant from his employed role. As such then, I dont 
think I can fairly or reasonably find that Mr Ts actual loss in these circumstances is the value 
of a valid unemployment claim.Instead, I think that if AQ had told Mr T that the policy wasnt suitable for him, hed have 
chosen not to take it out at all. So I find that Mr Ts actual financial loss is the premiums he 
paid for the cover during the insured period, together with interest at an annual rate of 8% 
simple to reflect the time Mr T was without that money. Therefore, Im satisfied that in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, AQs agreement to refund Mr Ts premiums plus interest is 
fair compensation to put right its errors in mis-selling this policy.
It's now open to Mr T to decide whether or not to accept this award. I must make it clear that 
if Mr T chooses to accept my decision, it will become legally binding on both parties. This 
means its very unlikely that Mr T could pursue the matter any further in court.
My final decision
For the reasons, Ive given above, I find that ActiveQuote Limited mis-sold Mr T an income 
protection insurance policy.
I direct ActiveQuote Limited to refund the premiums Mr T paid for the policy, together with 
interest at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date each premium was paid until the date 
of settlement.
If ActiveQuote considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman