DRN-3186447
The complaint
Miss P complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has unfairly increased her premiums. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Miss P took out two lifetime pet insurance policies for her dogs (Dog A and Dog B) 
in 2012 and 2016 respectively. 
In 2021 Allianz sent Miss P details of the policy renewal. Miss P was unhappy the 
premiums had increased year on year to the extent they had. With 2021s renewal 
increasing by around 20%. She said since inception, Dog As premiums had more 
than tripled, and Dog Bs doubled. 
She complained to Allianz. It stood by its position but offered a discount due to Miss 
P being a loyal customer. Miss P cancelled Dog Bs policy and changed providers. 
She said she kept Dog As policy with Allianz as he had an injury to his eye that 
would be classed as a pre-existing medical condition if she changed providers.
One of our Investigators upheld the complaint. She said Allianz failed to explain the 
implications of a lifetime policy at the point of sale, including potentially significant 
rises in premiums as the dogs got older. 
The investigator was satisfied the premium increases were calculated correctly. But 
said Allianz should pay Miss P £100 in compensation for the distress caused by its 
failure to clearly explain key parts of the policy to her. She said this was significant as 
lifetime policies by their nature are likely to put off policyholders changing to new 
providers without risking a pre-existing medical condition being excluded. 
Allianz acknowledged the investigators perspective on whether sufficient information 
was provided at the point of sale. But it said Miss P was aware prices would rise over 
time and she couldve changed insurers if she was unhappy. Allianz said information 
about price rises was included within its annual renewal documents, and that it had 
already offered a discount of premiums worth around £100. 
The investigator looked again, but didnt change her mind. She said Allianzs 
discounts appeared to be a commercial offer and not an offer of compensation. And 
she reiterated Allianz had failed to explain how the policy would work as the dogs got 
older, and that Miss P was distressed and frustrated by this.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. And largely for the reasons given by our 
investigator previously. In doing so I will focus on what I consider the key issues that remain 
in dispute.
Im satisfied Allianzs pricing of the policies is correct, and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it has treated Miss P differently to any other customers. 
Lifetime policies will generally cover a pet for any conditions they develop for the rest 
of their lives  as long as the policy continues. And because these tend to be more 
comprehensive than other types of pet insurance, they can be expensive. Miss P has 
acknowledged that insurance will go up each year, and that making a claim will 
impact this. But in this case, it is the size of the increase that Miss P has said took 
her by surprise and led her to complain. 
So, I have to consider if Allianz explained to Miss P how the policy would work, when 
she took it out. In doing so, Ive considered the sales of both policies from 2012 and 
2016, taking into account the previously discussed available evidence. 
Allianz appears to have conceded on this point. But for clarity Im in agreement with 
our investigator that when selling the policies, Allianz failed to inform Miss P that her 
premiums could increase significantly as her dogs get older.
Having considered Miss Ps testimony, and having seen she took out these policies 
believing they would cover her pets for their lifetimes, I can understand why it came 
as a shock to discover she may not be able to afford to continue with it. And in light of 
these costs, I can see why it was upsetting to have to decide whether she was 
financially able to continue cover for existing conditions. 
Allianz has agreed that getting alternative cover for Pet A would be difficult in light of 
this, particularly if she was looking for his previous health conditions to be covered. 
As a result, Im satisfied Allianz not making these increases of costs clear at the start 
has led to unnecessary upset for Miss P when receiving the renewal as she wasnt 
expecting such an increase.
Allianz has also said it should be acknowledged it offered a discount for Miss P. But 
within its final response it says it offered this as she was a loyal customer, and not 
related to any mistake it had made or as a payment of compensation. So, Im not 
persuaded it has already compensated her as it has suggested.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc must pay Miss P 
£100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman