DRN-3294655
The complaint
Mr C complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement 
with MBFS. The contract reached maturity in October 2021.
The car was collected in October 2021 by agents for MBFS, who carried out an inspection. A 
second inspection was carried out 6 days later at MBSs de fleet centre. Following this, 
MBFS invoiced Mr C for damage charges.
Mr C disputed the charges. He said the damage wasnt present when the car was collected. 
He was also unhappy that four tyres had been found to require replacement because hed 
replaced the tyres shortly before the car was returned.
In response, MBFS said the damage charges had been correctly applied.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He wants MBFS to cancel 
the charges for the damage found on the second inspection.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said that MBFS hadnt acted unfairly by 
arranging a second inspection but found that some of the damage hadnt been charged 
correctly because it was within acceptable wear and tear.
Mr C didnt agree. He said the damage to the front of the car wasnt present when the car 
was collected and that he didnt accept the charges for this damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr C must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards which set out what is considered acceptable 
wear and tear.
Mr C has said he doesnt think its fair that hes been charged for damage which wasnt 
identified at the first inspection. He thinks the damage occurred after the car was collected.
Ive looked at the BVLRA guidelines. These say that a leasing company can make an initial 
assessment of damage at the first inspection and can make final assessment of damage 
following the second more detailed inspection. Mr Cs hire agreement says that when the car 
is returned to MBFS, it will carry out a vehicle returns standards inspection at its defleet 
centre.
I appreciate that Mr C feels that because the first inspection took place during the day, all of 
the damage on the car should have been identified and noted. However, I think its clear from 
the agreement that there was always going to be a second inspection at the defleet centre. 
The collection inspection is a short inspection to assess any obvious damage and to make 
sure the car is roadworthy. In this case, the collection inspection notes that a second 
inspection will be necessary. Following the second inspection, MBFS invoiced Mr C for 
damage within the required 28 day timescale. Taking everything into consideration, Im 
unable to say that MBFS did anything wrong or acted unfairly by arranging a second 
inspection.
Mr C has said that he doesnt think all of the damage was present when the car was 
collected. He says the damage to the front of the car cant be seen on the photos from the 
first inspection.
Ive looked at the photos from both inspections. These arent conclusive, because the 
pictures from the first inspection arent of the same quality. Ive taken on board what Mr C 
has said. But I havent seen any evidence to indicate that the damage was caused post 
collection. MBFS has confirmed that the collection agents are obliged to report any in transit 
damage and that in this case, no damage was reported. Looking at the photos of the 
damage, I cant be certain whether this is new damage or not. Even if it was, thats not to 
say that it couldnt have occurred before the car was collected. On balance and given that 
the car was in Mr Cs possession for around 2 years, and in the collection agents possession 
for around 6 days, I think its more likely that the damage occurred whilst the car was in Mr 
Cs possession.
Ive considered whether the charges for damage have been correctly applied. I agree with 
the investigator that the charges for damage to the left hand door, left hand rear quarter 
panel and right hand rear quarter panel havent been charged correctly, as the damage 
doesnt go beyond acceptable wear and tear in accordance with the guidelines. So, Im 
asking MBFS to remove £385 of the charges. Im satisfied that the remainder of the damage 
has been charged correctly.
Putting things right
To put things right, MBFS must refund £385 of the charges.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im partially upholding the complaint. Mercedes Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited must refund £385 of charges. The remainder of the charges are Mr Cs 
responsibility.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman