DRN-3266617
The complaint
Mr I complains that Lloyds Bank PLC recorded a default on his credit file. He says he had a 
direct debit set up, but Lloyds didnt collect his monthly loan payments.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by a family member. 
What happened
Mr I says there was a mistake made by Lloyds which meant his direct debit wasnt collected 
for six months. He says he only found this out when he started receiving contact from Lloyds 
collections department. He couldnt pay the arrears immediately and he says Lloyds 
recorded a default. He says the default has affected his ability to obtain finance and that 
Lloyds wont speak to him about the account.
Lloyds said it was Mr Is responsibility to make the monthly payments and that it had written 
to him when the payments werent made which gave him the opportunity to bring the 
account up to date. It said it wouldnt reinstate the account or remove the default from Mr Is 
credit file.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that Lloyds had done anything wrong when it applied the default.
Mr I didnt agree. He responded in some detail giving information about his vulnerabilities 
and his personal circumstances in 2019. He disagreed with Lloyds record of his 
conversations. In particular he said that:
He contacted Lloyds in May 2019 and agreed a three-month payment break. 
During a call on 23 August, it was agreed that interest and payments would be frozen; 
but they were frozen on his sisters account instead.
He visited a branch several times to try to set up the direct debit. He wasnt told he could 
make a payment by other means.
Our investigator didnt think this changed the overall outcome. 
Mr I and his representative provided further information, but this did not change the 
investigators conclusions. So the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here and Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this and it simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Secondly, Mr I has provided details of what happened during his visits to a branch with his 
sister and the impact the banks service had on her. But I can only consider Mr Is complaint 
about the service which was provided to him. Mr Is sister has made her own complaint 
about the service she received. So I wont make any further comment about that here.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and information, I find I have come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator for the following reasons:
The loan account was set up in December 2018 and the first five monthly payments were 
paid on time by direct debit. The direct debit payment for June 2019 was rejected. Ive not 
seen evidence to show that Mr I contacted Lloyds in May or June 2019 to explain his 
circumstances, or that Lloyds agreed a payment holiday. 
When a payment isnt made on time, I would expect Lloyds to contact the customer and not 
to keep trying to collect the payment, unless the customer agrees. In Mr Is case, he 
originally told us Lloyds made a mistake in not collecting the direct debit. But he later told us 
that he didnt have any money in his current account. This will be the reason why the direct 
debit failed. Had Lloyds continued to attempt to collect the monthly payments by direct debit, 
its likely these would also have failed and that Mr I might have incurred charges.
Lloyds attempted to contact Mr I by phone and SMS message, but the number it had in its 
records was invalid. But Im satisfied it made Mr I aware of the missed payments because 
Ive seen evidence of the letters it sent him. 
Mr I says he visited a bank branch to try to sort things out on several occasions. 
Unfortunately, I cant say with any certainty what was discussed during his visits. It seems 
that Mr I asked for help in putting the direct debit arrangement back in place. But Lloyds 
staff would not have been able to help him with that because his bank account wasnt with 
Lloyds. I can see Mr I was given some wrong information because he was told he had to 
have a current account with Lloyds to service his loan account. Lloyds paid him £25 by way 
of an apology which I consider to be fair and reasonable.
I find there may have been a misunderstanding during the conversations Mr I had with 
branch staff. But I find the letters from Lloyds collection department were reasonably clear 
that Mr I should contact him if he was having difficulty making payments.
I can see Mr I first contacted the collections department on 3 August 2019 and asked for a 
call back the following day. But Lloyds attempts to contact him were unsuccessful so a 
payment plan for the arrears couldnt be agreed. And I can see Mr I contacted the collections 
department again on 12 September and 1 November. Im satisfied that on each occasion 
Lloyds fairly put a hold on its collections activity to allow Mr I some breathing space to think 
about how he could repay the arrears. 
By mid-October 2019, no payments had been made, the arrears had increased to around 
£1,800 and a repayment plan hadnt been agreed. I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in sending Mr I a notice of default. I say this because hed known for several 
months that payments hadnt been made and hed had time to provide details of his income 
and expenditure to Lloyds and to agree how hed repay the arrears.
Mr I told the bank at the beginning of November that hed be able to repay the arrears. But 
then it didnt receive further contact from him. It sent him another letter on 20 December asking Mr I to contact it for help in repaying the arrears. But, as no further contact was 
received, I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably in defaulting the account in January 2020 
and recording this on Mr Is credit file.
Mr I says that during the call on 23 August, it was agreed that interest and payments would 
be frozen; but they were frozen on his sisters account instead. As Ive already set out, Mr Is 
sisters complaint is being considered separately by this service. But I can see from Lloyds 
records that interest was frozen on Mr Is loan account from August 2019 until the account 
was defaulted. Im not persuaded that Lloyds also agreed that payments would be frozen  
Mr I was still contractually obligated to make the monthly payments.
Im not unsympathetic to the situation in which Mr I finds himself. But as Ive not found 
Lloyds has acted wrongly, I cant order it to remove the default.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman