DRN-3610555
The complaint
The estate of Mrs M complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (Interactive 
Investor) delayed in actioning an instruction to sell the holdings of the late Mrs M.
What happened
The estate of the late Mrs M gave instructions to sell her holdings in a letter dated 4 May 
2021, a sealed grant of probate and an executor instruction form were also provided. 
Interactive Investor acknowledged receipt of the documents on 5 May 2021 and confirmed 
that the request would be processed shortly. The holdings were sold on 19 May 2021 after 
security checks had been completed and matters were confirmed in writing to the executors 
of the estate of Mrs M on 21 September 2021.
Those acting on behalf of the estate of Mrs M say that the sale should have progressed on 5 
May 2021, when the instruction was received. They maintain that delay in actioning the 
request resulted in the estate losing out, as the share price dropped.
Interactive Investor maintain that best endeavours were used to progress the request, no 
timeline was given to the estate as to completion and appropriate security checks had to be 
undertaken.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought there was no requirement for 
Interactive Investor to action the instruction on the date of receipt, appropriate verification 
and identity checks were made and completed by 15 May 2021 and the sale then completed 
within four days, on 19 May 2021. Overall, he thought the instruction was processed within a 
reasonable timeframe. Further, no guarantee had been given as to the value of the stock as 
the price could fluctuate up to the point of sale and the estimate of £197,000 was simply a 
guide. Our investigator also highlighted a liability exclusion clause.
The estate of Mrs M disagrees with the outcome. It maintains that the instruction should 
have completed on 5 May 2021 and that other providers processed instructions promptly.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain at the outset that we provide an informal dispute resolution 
service, where each case is considered on its own facts and decisions are made on the 
balance of probabilities. We have no regulatory power, which means we cant tell a business 
how to operate.
There is no dispute about the timeline in this complaint. Im satisfied that the instruction from 
the executors was received on 5th May 2021, regulatory checks were completed by 15 May 
2021 and the sale took place on 19 May 2021.
The issue is whether the timeline to completion in this instance was fair and reasonable. 
There is no requirement that an instruction to sell must be completed on the date of receipt. 
The acknowledgement sent on 5 May 2021, confirmed that the request would be processed 
shortly. So, I think it was clear to the estate of Mrs M that no specific timeline was being 
given. Further, Interactive Investors execution policy stated that best endeavours would be 
used. In this instance, Ive seen that appropriate checks were conducted, including 
verification checks on the two executors. Its also relevant that the timeline also fell across 
two weekends. So, whilst I appreciate that the estate of Mrs M had hoped that the sale 
would proceed faster, I cant fairly say that the timeline in this instance was unreasonable. 
Im also not persuaded, on the basis of the evidence provided, that any loss has been 
established. The value of the stock was subject to fluctuation and the value given for the 
time of instruction was clearly an estimate. Further, in the absence of any negligence on the 
part of Interactive Investor, under the applicable terms and conditions, they would not be 
responsible for any change in price fluctuation or market conditions before the transaction 
completed.
Im sorry to disappoint those acting on behalf of the estate of Mrs M, but for the reasons 
given, I wont be asking Interactive Investor to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman