DRN-2923012
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that a cheque written by Mr M wasnt paid by State Bank of India
(UK) Limited. The receiving bank had already started converting this money into another
currency when the cheque was refused, so that bank charged Mr M for conversion costs.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M live overseas. They have an account with SBI in the UK. They told us that
they wanted to move money from that bank to their local bank. So Mr M first moved money
from his savings account into the current account at SBI, then Mr M wrote a cheque for
several thousand pounds. Mr M then tried to pay that cheque into an account he holds in his
country of residence. Mr M said that SBI called him about this overnight, and although he got
in touch first thing in the morning, it had already refused his cheque.
Unfortunately, Mr Ms local bank had already started to convert the money to local currency,
and Mr M told us it passed on to him the costs involved in this cancelled transaction. Mr M
didnt think the cheque shouldve been refused, so he wanted SBI to pay those costs.
SBI said the signature on the cheque didnt match the one it had on file for Mr M. SBI told us
it tried to contact Mr M on the morning of 12 August 2020, but it had a very short deadline for
deciding whether the cheque should clear or not, and this combined with the time difference
meant it didnt manage to get in touch with Mr M. So the cheque was refused.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that the terms of Mr
and Mrs Ms account with SBI do allow it to refuse to pay a cheque if it has concerns about 
the signature. So SBI could have just refused to pay. Instead, it tried to get in touch with Mr 
M, and held the cheque for as long as it could. Mr M contacted SBI later that day but our 
investigator said that by then it was too late.
Our investigator said SBI hadnt initially made clear why the cheque was refused. Our
investigator said that SBI not being clear on this over the phone hadnt affected whether the
cheque was cleared or not, and SBI did explain the problem later. Our investigator didnt
think that SBI had to clear the cheque just because it was written out to Mr M, as SBI
couldnt rule out that it was being cashed by someone else with the same name. She said
that Mr M hasnt complained to SBI that it hadnt told him about its policy of verifying higher
value cheques, or that it hasnt asked him for an updated signature. So we wouldnt look at
those points, as Mr M hadnt raised these issues with SBI.
Our investigator didnt think SBI had to do any more.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that SBI hadnt raised the signature issue until later, at first it said
it wanted to verify the cheque. It only raised the signature issue later, to avoid paying his
costs. And he said that a cheque he wrote after this went through with no problems. He said
that hed offered SBI a new signature, but it had turned this offer down. He thought that SBI
had invented its concerns about his signature later, to cover up what it had done.
Our investigator said she couldnt comment on what Mr M was told initially, but she did think
that there was an issue with the signature. Our investigator sent Mr M the two signatures, so
he could see that they do vary.
Mr M sent us a picture of the signatures on the sample held by SBI, the refused cheque, and
the cheque he wrote after that, which was cleared. He said they all looked the same to him.
He still thought that SBI was trying to use the signature issue to cover up its mistake. He
thought a handwriting expert might be needed to confirm that it was his signature.
Our investigator said that our service doesnt appoint handwriting experts. She thought it
was fair for SBI to decide that the signatures didnt match. Our investigator said that there
was enough difference to justify SBIs concerns.
Our investigator asked SBI for some more information. It has confirmed that the deadline for
confirming the cheque is imposed by its clearing bank, and said those timings are on its
website. There appeared to be some confusion over the timing of this deadline.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I dont think that SBI made a mistake when it refused to clear Mr Ms cheque. But I do 
think its not been as clear and helpful as it could have been when dealing with Mr M. 
I think it couldve done more to explain why this decision was made, and in particular 
to help him understand how he can avoid this problem in future. I think thats 
particularly important here, because SBI has a short, externally imposed deadline for 
deciding whether cheques should be honoured, and the time difference means its 
not always going to be able to speak to Mr M in this brief period. So I think SBI 
should have set out as clearly as possible for Mr M what happened, and how he can 
avoid this problem recurring.
Mr M said that SBI had just invented its concerns with his signature, and it was doing 
this to cover up that it had made a mistake. I dont think thats quite right, I do think 
that SBI had concerns about the signature at the time. But I dont think thats the sole 
reason why this cheque wasnt cleared.
What SBI has said to us, most recently, is that it does have a policy of confirming 
high value cheques. So what seems to happen is that a central processing team gets 
in touch with the branch, and asks if the high value cheque should be honoured. Its 
then up to the branch manager to decide if this requires a call to the customer, or not.
In this case, the signature did have some differences to the specimen held for Mr M. 
The cheque was payable to Mr M, but his is not an uncommon name. And, whilst SBI 
said that this payment out was consistent with the conduct of the account, it also said 
that it was a rather long time since Mr M last issued a cheque. I can see that his last 
cheque payment was well over a year before.
Faced with these factors, branch staff decided to contact Mr M to see if the cheque 
was his. I dont think they made a mistake when they did that. I think its entirely 
reasonable for the branch staff to err on the side of caution in these circumstances.
The staff member wasnt able to speak to Mr M before the cheque processing 
deadline was up. SBI doesnt clear its own cheques, it relies on a larger bank to do this for it, so this wouldnt be a deadline that SBI is in charge of, and I wouldnt expect 
there to be any option for SBI to just ask the other bank to wait.
So SBI had to decide whether to allow this cheque to go through, or not. It hadnt 
been able to speak to Mr M, although it had tried. It again decided to err on the side 
of caution. Again, I think thats entirely reasonable.
I also think that what SBI did is consistent with the terms of Mr Ms account. Those 
terms say that a cheque may not be cleared for other reasons, and then give a non-
exhaustive list of reasons why a cheque might be refused. I think that the reasons set 
out here are sufficient to make SBIs decision not to pay this cheque a reasonable 
one.
I understand that this meant Mr M incurred costs, when the bank that was in the 
process of converting his currency suddenly found the cheque didnt clear, but I dont 
think that means that SBI did something wrong, or that it has to pay these costs.
Mr M said that he offered SBI a fresh signature, and he said SBI told him that this 
wasnt needed. SBI says that it told Mr M that a fresh signature wasnt going to be 
something that could help with this cheque, because it had already been refused, but 
that it told Mr M how to update his signature if he wanted to do so. I understand that 
Mr M has since issued another cheque without any difficulties, so that may not be 
necessary.
Ive explained that I dont think SBI made a mistake when it turned down this cheque. 
But I think this left Mr M worried about future transactions, and possible costs, as well 
as suspicious of why his cheque wasnt cleared. I think it wouldve been helpful if SBI 
had tried to assist Mr M with this, both by being clearer on what the process was for 
checking the validity of a cheque, and by offering to help with other methods of 
paying this money across to his local account, if Mr M preferred. And I think that if 
SBI had been somewhat clearer in setting out the above processes to our service, 
this complaint might also have been resolved sooner.
For those reasons, I think that SBI should pay Mr M £100 in compensation. I should 
stress that this isnt to cover any costs he incurred when the cheque was refused. 
Ive explained that I dont think SBI has to pay those costs because I dont think that 
refusing this cheque was a mistake by SBI. But on the evidence Ive seen so far, I 
think SBI ought to have helped Mr M much more once the cheque was refused, and 
also helped to bring this complaint to a resolution sooner. Thats why I think it should 
pay Mr M some compensation now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said that he wanted me to reconsider. He said that SBI was trying to ignore its staff 
negligence, and had fabricated the story after his complaint. He wanted to draw my attention 
to a number of points  
the cheque was in his handwriting.
it was payable to him, and was going into his account overseas.
he had transferred funds from his savings account to make this payment.Mr M said that because the cheque was cancelled, he paid the conversion charges, which 
caused him hardship. He said hes living on a modest income, and has limited means. 
Mr M said that SBI hasnt suffered any loss due to the negligence of its staff, and he wanted 
it to pay him everything hed paid for the conversion of this money. 
Im sorry to have to tell Mr M that, although I have noted what he has said, I still dont think it 
was negligent for SBIs staff to have sought to confirm with Mr M that this cheque was 
genuine, or to have refused to clear it when they couldnt do that. I think that for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision above, but particularly in light of the issues around Mr Ms 
signature. So I dont think SBI has to make this payment. 
SBI also wrote to object. It said it had understood that I didnt think it made a mistake in 
turning down Mr Ms cheque, but that I thought SBI had not been helpful enough by being 
clearer on the process and by not offering to help with other methods of paying this money. 
SBI said it thought that was why I was awarding £100 as compensation to the customer.
SBI said that it had offered Mr M alternatives. SBI sent us evidence that Mr Ms internet 
banking is active, and that he has made online transfers. It also said it had spoken to Mr M 
and discussed that he could make the transfer online, but he preferred to pay by cheque 
because he had negotiated a rate with his local bank. And it said that it thought Mr M had 
only complained because he was not happy with the charges he had to pay when his 
cheque was returned by the bank. So SBI said there were no grounds for compensation.
SBI hasnt sought to challenge my view that it didnt reject Mr Ms cheque solely because of 
issues with his signature, or that it didnt fully explain this to Mr M. And because of that, I still 
think that SBI has let Mr M down. 
SBI has now told us that Mr M preferred to write a cheque, because this was apparently how 
he could get the best deal on exchange with his local bank. But, instead of a good deal, Mr 
M was left paying conversion costs when his cheque didnt clear. 
So I think Mr M then had to work out whether he should make payments by cheque in future, 
or not. And to do that, he would need to know why SBI turned down this cheque, as well as 
what timetable it was working to.
Ive set out in my provisional decision that I understand SBI made a quite complex risk 
assessment before it decided not to cash his cheque. Because it didnt explain that to Mr M, 
or set out for him the timescales it has to work to, but only told him his cheque had been 
rejected because of his signature, Mr M wasnt able to assess whether this problem was 
likely to happen again. So even if Mr M did know how to make online transfers, he couldnt 
work out whether that was a better way for him to move his money, or not.
I similarly noted that if SBI had been somewhat clearer in setting out the above processes to 
our service, this complaint might also have been resolved sooner. I still think that too.
So I dont agree with SBI that there are no grounds for compensation in this case. I still think 
a payment of £100 provides a fair and reasonable outcome here.
 My final decision
My final decision is that State Bank of India (UK) Limited must pay Mr and Mrs M £100 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman