DRN-3858756
The complaint
Miss M, Mr P and Ms W complained about Covea Insurance plc. They are not happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy.   
For ease of reading any reference to Covea includes the actions of its agents which it is 
responsible for and for ease I will mainly refer to Miss M as she has advanced the complaint.
What happened
Miss M has been involved in a long and drawn out insurance claim with Covea after a water 
leak caused significant damage at her property. And she is unhappy with how Covea has 
handled the claim, the delays involved and the way the claim is still being handled. 
Miss M said that Covea has deleted her emails without considering the content and 
concerns raised; that Covea has stopped paying alternative accommodation costs (AA) and 
loss of rent (LOR) on the claim; left the property uninhabitable and so the payments should 
continue; caused damage to their personal belongings and has only considered some of the 
reported items damaged; that Coveas cash settlement offer is too low and Covea has only 
offered to cover the remaining snagging issues while she wants any further work to come 
with a guarantee and to fully strip out the work that has already taken place so a new 
contractor can guarantee the work.
When Miss M complained to this Service our investigator looked into things for her and partly 
upheld the complaint. Ultimately, he thought both sides had contributed to the delays 
incurred and although Covea had offered £500 compensation he thought this should be 
increased to £1,250, this was partly due to the fact that he thought Covea hadnt done 
enough at times to put right mistakes it had made along the way. 
Plus, our investigator explained that Covea should consider all the losses presented by the 
consumer and ask her for more information, if required, to validate the claim and explain any 
decline reasons in full. And he thought Covea had acted fairly in looking to stop paying AA 
and LOR as the house was now habitable and that its offer to pay a cash settlement for any 
further work required was fair or Miss M could allow Covea to complete the outstanding 
work.
Covea accepted the Investigators position but Miss M didnt so the matter has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This claim has been drawn out and difficult and so I can understand Miss Ms frustration and 
loss of faith here. And there has been a breakdown in trust and communication which has 
clearly impacted the finalisation of the claim and the complaint. However, claims like this are 
very difficult to put right and can be complex although I accept that Covea havent got things 
right at times. But as a lot of this is accepted by both sides I dont propose to rehearse the 
details of the claim but will focus on the key issues and outstanding matters in looking to 
advance this complaint. As our investigator has highlighted the consumer can advance any 
additional complaint points around the final settlement of the claim in the future if required 
but hopefully that wont be necessary.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Turning to the key issues I can understand why Miss M was suspicious about her emails 
being deleted without consideration. But I agree with our investigator that Covea have 
provided a reasonable explanation as to how its systems dealt with the emails after receipt. 
And that there isnt any evidence that they were just deleted so Im not asking it to do 
anything further here. 
In relation to Covea stopping payments regarding AA and LOR I think it has acted fairly, 
although I accept that this is a difficult aspect of the case to decide. Covea relied on its 
experts in deciding if the property was unhabitable in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. I can see that Miss M has argued that the property was unsafe when payment 
stopped because issues remained with the electrics and stairs and that the sign off process 
hadnt been completed. 
While this matter has been under consideration by this Service Miss M has gained her own 
expert opinion on the work undertaken to date which highlighted a number of areas of 
concern. The report did suggest the property is uninhabitable and that works had been 
carried out to a poor standard and significant remedial works are required especially in 
relation to the staircase in the property. But I agree, on the evidence before me, that neither 
the electrics or the stairs are in a condition that make them unsafe for habitation although not 
finished. And given the breakdown in communication had lead to a significant delay in 
finalising the claim, and agreeing a way forward, I dont think it would be fair to get Covea to 
pay for the property being left empty just because agreement cant be reached. 
The electrics and stairs both require further work before being signed off, but Coveas 
professionals say the property is safe to live in and it is fair for Covea to be guided by this. I 
have considered the consumers report but, as our investigator has highlighted, there is no 
clear explanation (and appropriate detail) as to why the property is uninhabitable and so I 
dont find it more persuasive than Coveas. There is a difference between more work being 
required and the property being unsafe, and a lot of Miss Ms own advice correlates with 
Coveas experts who accept the concerns raised by the Insured and their Engineer but 
does not consider the staircase unsafe. So, I cant say it has acted unreasonably although I 
would expect it to revisit this if necessary as the work is ongoing and there is a distinct 
possibility that the further remedial work will mean the property becomes uninhabitable for a 
further period.
Miss M has provided a document that breaks down the losses she would like Covea to 
consider. I agree it makes sense, for consistency, for Covea to use this document in looking 
to validate the claim. Covea has considered some of these costs but I agree it should 
consider them all and gain any supporting evidence it requires in looking to check if the costs incurred should be covered as part of the claim or because of damages its agent caused. It 
is only fair that Covea should look to put right any damage or losses it caused.
As the relationship between Miss M and Covea has broken down I can understand why a 
cash settlement may be the best way to finalise the claim. And I can understand why the 
consumer wants a guarantee for the work once completed. However, I dont think it would be 
fair to ask Covea to, in effect, pay twice for the work as a large proportion of the work has 
already been undertaken. I understand that the contractors the consumers have approached 
will not guarantee the work that has already been undertaken but I think this is a matter for 
Miss M. She can either proceed with Covea and it can offer a guarantee for the lasting and 
effective repair that it is obliged to provide, or she can arrange for her own contractors. And I 
know Miss M isnt happy about this, but it seems reasonable for her to provide her own 
quotes for the work for Coveas consideration.
Finally, I can see that both sides have contributed to the delays here including allowing and 
gaining access to the property. Covea has also acknowledged that the service it provided 
throughout this claim could have been better and to a higher standard. And Covea accepts 
that it has caused delays in the progression of the claim on its part alongside that of the 
consumers and its communication couldve been better. Given all of this I agree that a 
further £750 compensation in addition to the £500 Covea has already offered feels fair. And 
is in line with the kinds of awards this Service ordinarily makes. I would now urge both sides 
to agree a way forward in order to finalise the claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Covea 
Insurance plc to pay £1250 (total) compensation and take the steps outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M, Mr P and 
Ms W to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman