DRN-1868048
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains about the delays that AXA Insurance UK Plc caused in 
making repairs to its van under its commercial motor insurance policy. It wants 
reimbursement of its subsequent costs. This complaint is brought on Ms behalf by its 
director, Mr J.
What happened
Ms van was vandalised, and Mr J made a claim on its policy. AXA offered to make repairs at 
its approved repairer. But this was 70 miles away and so Mr J asked to use a local repairer. 
He left his van with the garage and went on holiday. But when he returned, he found that 
repairs hadnt been done as AXA hadnt approved them. Mr J contacted AXA, the estimate 
was approved, and repairs were made. But Mr J said he had to hire a van to carry out his 
business whilst the repairs were carried out. He thought AXA should reimburse these costs. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AXA hadnt 
made any progress on the claim whilst Mr J was on holiday. It took four days for the repairs 
to be made and he thought it was reasonable for Mr J to expect these to be made whilst he 
was away. Mr J then had to hire a van to continue trading. So he thought AXA should 
reimburse him the cost of this, on presentation of receipts, with interest. 
AXA replied that Mr J had told it he wanted to use his own repairer after he returned from 
holiday. It said if he had used the approved repairer then he would have been provided with 
a courtesy van.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA said that Mr J initially agreed to use its approved repairer. It said Mr J was provided 
with the email address to send a quote to if he wanted to use his own repairer. It said he was 
unsure of this at that stage. It said it didnt hear from Mr J again until he returned from 
holiday. So it didnt think it had caused any delays in the claim. 
Mr J said he told AXAs agent, its approved repairer, that he declined its offer of repairs and 
courtesy van, and he wanted his own repairer to carry out the repairs. He left his van with his 
repairer. But this message wasnt passed on to AXA and so no progress was made with the 
repairs until Mr J contacted AXA on his return from holiday. 
Mr J recalled that hed asked the approved repairer for the process of having his own garage 
make the repairs. He said he provided it with a quote. But when he came back from holiday, 
it said it thought he was unsure which garage to use and it was waiting for his confirmation. 
AXA said it would have expected Mr J to let it know directly if he didnt want to use its 
approved repairer. It said it would provide us with the process the approved garage should 
have followed when Mr J declined its offer, but it hasnt done so. 
So I think there are conflicting accounts of what happened and what was expected to 
happen whilst Mr J was on holiday. And so Ive thought about what was most likely to have 
happened.
Mr J said he left for holiday expecting the approved repairer to tell AXA that he wanted to 
use his own garage and so approve its estimate and carry out the repairs. On balance, I 
think this is most likely what happened as I think Mr J would have wanted his van ready to 
carry out his trade on his return. 
I cant see that Mr Js policy explains what he should do if he wants to use his own garage 
instead of AXAs approved garage for repairs. But it is very clear on what its approved 
repairer does offer. AXA said that it expected Mr J to contact it directly, though I cant see 
where it told Mr J this. It said it had provided an email address for him to send in his 
estimate, but I cant see evidence of this in its file. 
Mr J said hed told AXAs agent that he wanted to use his own repairer. I think it was 
reasonable for Mr J to expect AXAs agent to pass on his message and so AXA should have 
progressed his repairs. These would have been approved and completed whilst he was 
away. Instead, I can see that AXA prioritised these when he made his complaint and his van 
was ready a week later. 
So I think AXA caused delays in Mr Js claim. And I think it should now restore Mr Js 
position. Mr J said he had to hire a van for a week to carry out his business whilst his own 
van was repaired. He wouldnt have had to do this except for AXAs delay. So I think AXA 
should reasonably reimburse him for this cost.
Putting things right
I think AXA should reimburse M for the cost of its replacement van whilst repairs were 
completed, on presentation of receipts. M has been without its money for some time. So I 
think AXA should reasonably add interest to this reimbursement at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman