DRN-4453209
The complaint
In April 2023, Mr M held accounts with Revolut Ltd, which provides fast payment services in 
the UK and abroad, and a UK bank. He had a large amount of money in the UK bank. A 
fraudster contacted him by phone and stole around £50,000 from him. To make the theft, the 
fraudster fooled Mr M into sending money from his UK bank account into his Revolut 
account and then into a third account which the fraudster controlled.
Mr M thinks Revolut should have stopped the fraud happening. It didnt. So, he wants it to 
refund him the money he lost. 
(Mr M has also complained about the UK bank, but this decision only relates to Revolut. I am 
not making any judgments about the conduct of the UK bank). 
What happened
When the fraudster called Mr M, he pretended to be from the anti-fraud department of the 
UK bank. He convinced Mr M that his account with the UK bank had been compromised and 
that he was at risk of losing his money from it. 
The fraudster misled Mr M into believing that to make the money from the UK bank safe, he 
should first move it into his Revolut account and then into a new account the fraudster had 
created. The fraudster referred to the new account as being safe. In reality, it was anything 
but safe. It was a fraudulent account under the fraudsters direct control. 
The fraudster persuaded Mr M to make three payments from his UK bank account into his 
Revolut account. They were for £20,000, £5,000, and £22,000; a total of £47,000. The 
fraudster then told Mr M to make three outward payments from his Revolut account into the 
fraudulent account. 
The first outward payment was for £76, the second was for £28,900 and the third for 
£22,000, a total of £50,976. (Clearly, this is more than the money from the UK bank, the 
difference came from funds Mr M already had with Revolut).
While Mr M was still talking to the fraudster, his daughter came to visit. She asked what was 
happening and quickly suspected fraud. Mr M ended the call to the fraudster and contacted 
Revolut for help. 
Revolut attempted to recover Mr Ms money for him from the fraudulent account, but could 
only get back a very small amount, less than £10. 
One of our investigators has already looked into Mr Ms complaint. The investigator didnt 
think that Revolut had done anything significantly wrong and didnt recommend that it should 
give Mr M any money back. Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed. So, it has come to me as an ombudsman to make a final 
decision on the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before discussing the details of the complaint, I would like to say how sorry I am to hear 
about the horrible experience Mr M suffered at the hands of the fraudster. It must have been 
deeply upsetting, both for him and his family. I gather that he is retired and that the money 
the fraudster stole had been part of his lifetime savings. This must be awful. Mr M has my 
heartfelt sympathy for the trauma the fraudster caused. 
The crux of this complaint is that Revolut believes Mr M was wholly responsible for his loss, 
whereas Mr M believes that the payments he made to the fraudulent account were unusual 
for him and Revolut should have stopped him making them. 
Mr M has described the fraudsters actions very clearly. Im totally satisfied that the fraudster 
was very plausible, highly convincing and in effect got Mr M under his spell. There is no 
doubt that Mr M only instructed Revolut to pay his money into the fraudulent account 
because he believed the lies the fraudster told him. Frauds of this type are often called 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) frauds.
While companies which provide payment services, such as Revolut, are normally expected 
to act on their customers instructions, APP fraud is a significant concern in the finance 
industry. And at the time of this fraud, I would have expected Revolut to be looking out for 
anything noticeably unusual about its customers payments, or patterns of payments. And if 
it saw anything suspicious, I would have expected it to contact the customer concerned to 
highlight the risk and check the customer really knew what was happening. 
I understand that Revolut didnt think the first outward payment was unusual and didnt 
suspect fraud or try to contact Mr M at that stage. As this payment was for a relatively small 
amount, I think this was reasonable. 
But the second and third payments were unusual. They were for large sums, in quick 
succession, to a payee to whom Mr M had not previously sent any money. And Mr M made 
them shortly after the inward payments from his UK bank. 
It seems that Revolut correctly identified these payments as suspicious and contacted Mr M 
about them, using its electronic chat service. It has sent us, and Mr M, a transcript of the 
dialogue. Amongst other things, Revolut told Mr M: 
We have noticed an emerging fraud..if you have been contacted by any bank 
claiming that your account is not safe and you need to move your money to another 
account, stop. . (fraudsters) may claim they have created a new safe account for 
you.This is a lie and is a tactic which scammers are using to scare you Is this 
something similar to the reasons for your (payment)?
No bank or institution should be guiding you on what to say in chat support. If they 
are, they are trying to scam you and you should let us know immediately 
Revolut and other trusted organisations will never tell you to lie about the reasons 
for your payments. 
Before Revolut processed each payment, it also asked Mr M several questions about their 
purpose. Amongst these questions, it asked Have you been told to move your money to a 
safe account as your account is at risk/compromised?. For the first payment Mr M replied 
No, I have not. And for the second he replied No. Revolut also warned Mr M that fraudsters could be trying to bypass its controls and that he 
could risk losing his money if he wasnt honest. 
Mr M has told us that in his view these messages werent effective enough to break the 
spell of the scam and more should have been done by Revolut to intervene.. 
I fully respect Mr Ms view and I acknowledge that at the time the fraudster was probably 
leading him on and guiding him to bypass (the) controls, as Revolut described. However, the 
dialogue seems to have been quite extensive and to have covered Mr Ms circumstances 
pretty closely. And as Mr M did not give the correct answers to the questions about safe 
accounts, Revolut didnt have the full facts. I think that Revoluts interventions were 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Once Mr M had reported the fraud to Revolut, I would have expected it to make reasonable 
attempts to recover his money for him through the financial institution which ran the 
fraudulent account. However, recovering money like this can be very difficult, as once a 
consumers money is an account which fraudsters control, they usually move it on very 
quickly, beyond the reasonable reach of the consumers own financial institution.
I do not know the exact time Mr M reported the fraud to Revolut and how quickly it acted, Mr 
M has told us that he found reporting the fraud using the chat service a lengthy process. 
I accept that there may have been some delays in Revoluts procedures and also that the 
amount of money it recovered was so small to be almost irrelevant and of no real help to Mr 
M. But, I have not seen anything to make me think it would have been more successful if it 
had acted more quickly after Mr M started to report the fraud. 
So, in summary, I can see that Mr M had a terrible experience at the hands of the fraudster 
and I cannot begin to understand how upset he must feel. However, I think the actions which 
Revolut were reasonable. I dont hold it responsible for Mr Ms loss.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Revolut Ltd. 
I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman