DRN-3445893
The complaint
Mr W complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim of a 
scam.
What happened
Mr W received a call from someone claiming to be from Revoluts fraud department. They 
told him his account had been compromised and so he needed to transfer his money to a 
new account they would set up for him. The caller was calling from a number very similar to 
the one for Revoluts customer services department, and sent Mr W authentication codes on 
the same thread hed received genuine codes from Revolut in the past  so he was 
convinced they were genuine and made a payment of £3,553.44 to the account details he 
was given. Unfortunately we now know the caller was a scammer.
Revolut investigated but said it had sufficient protections in place and provided adequate 
warnings before Mr W authorised the payment. So it didnt agree to refund the money hed 
lost. Revolut did try to recover the money from the account it was sent to, and the third-party 
bank it was subsequently moved on to, but was unable to. Mr W wasnt satisfied with 
Revoluts response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ws complaint. They didnt think the payment was 
particularly unusual in comparison to other payments Mr W had made out of his account, 
and so they didnt think Revolut needed to have asked any further questions before allowing 
the payment to go through. They also thought Revolut had done all it could to try to recover 
the money. So they didnt think Revolut should have to refund the money Mr W lost. Mr W 
disagreed with out investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Revolut need to refund the money Mr W lost. Ill explain why 
below.
Mr W accepts he made the payment himself. So while I recognise he didnt intend for the 
money to go to scammers, he did authorise this payment. And so, under the Payment 
Service Regulations, the starting position is that he is liable for the payment and Revolut 
doesnt have to refund it.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Revolut 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether Revolut should have identified that Mr W was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of the payment, or otherwise done more to protect him.
I dont think this payment was for a particularly large amount. And, from looking at 
statements for Mr Ws account, there were a number of payments for what Id consider to be 
similarly large amounts out of the account over the previous twelve months. It also wasnt 
unusual for the balance of Mr Ws account to be reduced to at or near zero, so this payment 
didnt leave the balance of the account at an unusual level. So I dont think the payment will 
have looked particularly out of character or unusual, based on Mr Ws previous account 
history.
Revolut says it initially stopped the payment and showed Mr W a warning saying it thought it 
was suspicious, but Mr W says the payment wasnt stopped and he wasnt shown this 
warning. In any event, as I dont think the payment will have looked unusual, I think its 
reasonable that Revolut didnt ask Mr W any further questions or carry out any further 
checks on the payment. And I think Revolut acted reasonably in ultimately allowing the 
payment to go through and I dont think anything it should reasonably have been expected to 
do would have prevented Mr W losing his money.
Mr W has mentioned the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) and case 
studies from our services website. But Revolut is not a signatory to the CRM code, so it 
wouldnt be fair for me to apply the standards it sets out to this case. And the case studies 
hes mentioned involve different circumstances and considerations to this case. Hes also 
said he doesnt feel he was negligent and, to be clear, neither I nor the investigator have 
suggested he was negligent or ought to have identified the scam before he did. But I also 
dont think anything Revolut should reasonably have been expected to do would have 
prevented the scam either.
Ive also considered whether Revolut could have done more to try to recover the money 
once it had been told of the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover the money from the bank it was sent to. But Revoluts records show the money was 
removed from the account it was sent to almost immediately, and so before Revolut could 
reasonably have been expected to block the account. And Revolut contacted the third-party 
bank the money was subsequently moved on to, but was told the money had been moved 
on again and so couldnt be returned. So I dont think Revolut could reasonably have done 
more to try to recover the money.
I sympathise with the position Mr W has found himself in. I appreciate how he feels about 
this case and that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. But, for the reasons set 
out above, I think Revolut has acted reasonably and I dont think it needs to refund the 
money he lost.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman