DRN-2967078
The complaint
 Mr Y complains about advice he received from Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) in 1993 to 
take out a Maximum Investment Plan. He is represented by a claims management company
(CMC) that says the investment recommended was too risky for Mr Y, the term of the plan
was inflexible, and Mr Y didnt need the insurance cover provided by the plan.
What happened
Mr Y met with an adviser in 1993 and was recommended a Maximum Investment Plan.
He started the plan and paid £25 per month for the ten-year term of the plan. In 2003 Mr Y
surrendered his plan.
In 2019 the CMC acting for Mr Y complained to Zurich on his behalf. It said that Mr Y didnt
have any investment experience and the plan posed too much risk. The CMC also said the
term was inflexible, Mr Y had no need for the life cover included in the plan and the adviser
had not established if Mr Y had sufficient emergency funds in place. It also said other more
suitable options for Mr Ys savings were not discussed.
Zurich didnt uphold Mr Ys complaint. It said at the time of sale Mr Ys attitude to risk was
recorded as balanced and he chose to invest the plan in various funds, which it said
suggested he had some financial knowledge and was prepared to accept an element of risk.
Zurich also noted he had an existing endowment plan, which was a risk-based product.
Zurich said the value of the plan was not guaranteed and was dependent on the growth of
the investment . It said this was explained in the documentation provided to Mr Y at the time.
Zurich said the personal illustration showed the potential returns from the plan based on
assumed growth rates and it confirmed those figures were examples that were not maximum
or minimum amounts.
Zurich said Mr Y was provided with the policy provisions that explained the nature of the
plan, how it worked, and the risks involved.
It noted Mr Y was married at the time and said life cover was automatically included in the
plan in order to keep the plan qualifying for tax advantages. Zurich explained the amount of
life cover included was the minimum possible for qualifying rules and it said the cost was
minimal at less than 1% of the monthly contribution. It said Mr Y was made aware of the
inclusion of life cover in the documentation he received.
It noted the adviser was a tied agent so could only discuss certain plans. Zurich said the MIP
was the regular savings plan that was available.
Zurich also said the documentation made it clear it was a ten-year plan and Mr Y had
maintained the plan for the full term.
Zurich noted that Mr Y had £3,000 in his bank account and the plan was funded from his
income.
It said overall, considering Mr Ys financial circumstances at the time, it was satisfied that the
plan was suitable for his needs and the documentation provided made him aware of how the
plan worked and the risks involved.
Mr Ys representative disagreed with Zurichs conclusions and referred Mr Ys complaint to
our service.
Our investigator considered Mr Ys complaint and said it should be upheld. He noted that
Zurich had assessed Mr Ys attitude to risk as 2 which it stated reflected a balanced
attitude to risk. The investigator said the facts recorded at the time didnt indicate that Mr Y
had any investment experience. He considered Mr Ys circumstances including his income at
the time, and didnt think he wanted to take more than a low level of risk with his savings, or
that he was in a position to take a higher level of risk. So, he said Zurich should compensate
Mr Y by comparing the return on his plan with a benchmark return for a low risk investment.
Zurich didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and said a fact find had been
completed that recorded Mr Ys circumstances and objectives. As a result of completing the
fact find and discussions between Mr Y and the adviser it was concluded Mr Y had a
balanced attitude. It said had Mr Y been cautious, or only wanting to take a small element
of risk, it would been recorded as 0 or 1.
It also said Zurichs financial advisers werent permitted to give investment advice. The only
fund they were able to recommend was the Managed Fund, so any other fund selection
would have been Mr Ys choice following fund information available to him at that time.
Zurich noted Mr Y chose to split his investment over five funds with only 20% in its
recommended Managed Fund. It said the fund selection made by Mr Y wasnt indicative of
somebody who wanted to take a small element of risk.
It also provided fund fact sheets for the relevant funds.
As no agreement could be reached Mr Ys complaint was referred to me for review.
I considered Mr Ys complaint and issued a provisional decision where I concluded that the 
complaint was upheld, and Zurich should compare the performance of Mr Ys Maximum 
Investment Plan with a return on the original premiums of Bank of England base rate plus 
one percent. 
The representative acting on behalf of Mr Y accepted the provisional decision.  Zurich 
disagreed with my provisional conclusions. In summary it said:
The advice was given almost 28 years ago; the plan matured in November 2003 after 
the ten-year term and no complaint was received at the time.
I had made several assumptions about how the advice had been given and 
concluded that Mr Y had been recommended an unsuitable product. I had said he 
probably didnt choose the funds or understand what he was investing in because the 
fact find, and application form were signed on the same day and his occupation 
meant he had no investment experience. But Zurich said it was equally probable that 
Mr Y was provided with information about the investment choices before the meeting 
with the adviser took place. 
Zurich said given the passage of time since the advice was given, it wasnt possible 
to say for certain exactly what discussions took place.
It didnt agree that the plan was inappropriate and didnt agree with my comments. Zurich said the Maximum Investment Plan provided the customer with a disciplined 
means of saving, over the longer term; and it noted that Mr Y had kept the policy for 
the full term. It said it was generally considered at the time that, to keep pace with 
inflation over the medium to long term, investing in funds with holdings in equities 
and bonds was generally better. 
The adviser wasnt allowed to give investment advice, other than to recommend the 
Managed Fund, so it remained of the view that Mr Y chose his own funds at the time 
and that, in doing so, he opted to take a higher risk with the modest sum he was 
choosing to contribute.
Zurich disagreed with the comments I had made in respect of the illustration which it 
said was only an example given that the point of sale illustration for Mr Y was not 
held on its files (it noted the sale was conducted prior to the 1 January 1995 
disclosure rules).
It said the growth rates quoted on the example illustration provided were (at the time) 
prescribed by the Personal Investment Authority to be used by all regulated firms. 
Zurich said it was important to remember that the figures quoted on the illustration 
were estimated, there for illustrative purposes and not guaranteed.
It said it was inappropriate to consider the rates in isolation and compare them to the 
rate of interest Mr Y was receiving in his bank account. It said the illustration 
recorded just one example and had the illustration used the higher growth rate to 
demonstrate the effect of the charges, then the estimated rate of return would have 
exceeded the bank account rate of return.
Zurich said the funds available in the MIP for investment, which were unit-linked 
investment funds, included equity and property funds. It said these were not directly 
comparable to a bank account. Zurich said these funds can give rise to a wide range 
of investment returns and, as such, there would have been potential for fund 
performance greater than the illustrative rates. It said that was the nature of unit-
linked investments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr Y met with an adviser in 1993. There is limited documentation from the point of sale
which is not surprising given the length of time that has passed. Zurich has pointed out that 
given the passage of time it isnt possible to say for certain what was discussed. I agree that 
its difficult to know exactly what was discussed.  However, I have to determine the case on 
the balance of probabilities- in other words what is more likely than not to have happened. 
And, there is some information available from the point of sale for me to consider, to assist 
me with my decision.
A fact find was completed which recorded Mr Ys circumstances. It recorded he was in his
late 30s, married and employed with an income of £15,000. He had an outstanding
mortgage on his home which ran until 2004 and he was paying for some life assurance
products. Mr Y also had some savings in a bank account.
The fact find recorded Mr Ys objectives as building up capital through savings and investing
existing capital for growth and a joint objective of protecting family against death. It also was
recorded that no recommendation for protection was made as Mr Y didnt feel there was a
need at that time.Attitude to risk
Mr Ys attitude to risk was recorded as 2. Zurich has explained that meant a balanced
attitude to risk. Zurich has referred to Mr Y having an endowment mortgage and pointed out
that is a risk-based product. But Im not persuaded that having that type of mortgage
equated to having investment experience. Historically a large number of people took out
endowment mortgages but there have since been a significant number of complaints
precisely because some people didnt really understand how they worked.
I dont think there was anything from Mr Ys circumstances to suggest he had any
investment experience. I note all his existing savings were held on deposit. I consider a
balanced level of risk can be suitable for someone taking out their first investment product,
particularly over a longer term. But, in Mr Ys case, I cant see that his circumstances were
such that he wanted to take that level of risk with his savings, or that he necessarily had the
capacity to take that level of risk, given the level of his income and liabilities and savings.
I consider Mr Y was looking to save over the longer term and was willing to take a low level
of risk with his regular monthly contribution of £25.
Mr Ys plan was invested in a number of different funds which included those with a
significant level of UK and international equities. Zurich is asking me to assume that Mr Y 
wouldve picked those funds and it points to this as support for the fact Mr Y was willing to 
take that level of risk. However, Im not persuaded that Mr Y would have understood the 
different funds and the risks they posed. I take into account that his job didnt require him to 
have any financial or investment knowledge and I dont consider there is anything else in his 
circumstances to point to investment knowledge or experience. I also note Mr Ys application 
appears to have been signed on the same day as the meeting with the adviser. So, it seems 
unlikely he had time to take away the information and consider it at length.
 Zurich has also said that it is equally likely that Mr Y was provided with information about 
the investment choices before the meeting with the adviser took place.  But it hasnt provided 
any evidence to support this assertion. So, I remain of the view, on balance, that Mr Y wasnt 
given the opportunity to consider this at length. And even if he had been, I am not persuaded 
that he would have understood the level of risk posed by the different funds. 
Zurich has also pointed out that Mr Y didnt complain when his plan matured. However, as it 
appears, from the information provided, that he didnt make a loss on the plan I dont think 
that would have necessarily alerted Mr Y to the risk posed by the plan. 
Overall, Im not persuaded given Mr Ys attitude to risk and the choice of funds available that 
Mr Y should have been recommended this product in the first place. And I think that 
incorrectly assessing his attitude to risk at that level and recommending the Maximum 
Investment Plan led to Mr Y taking out an investment that posed more risk than he wanted to 
take. That doesnt mean I consider the plan was an unsuitable means of saving for some 
consumers over the longer term. And, I dont disagree with Zurich that it was an investment 
that could provide a means of trying to keep pace with inflation over the medium to long-
term. But the issue here is whether it was suitable for Mr Y taking into account his 
circumstances and objectives at the time. 
Inclusion of insurance cover
This type of plan required a certain level of insurance cover to make it a qualifying plan.
The qualifying status made it more attractive to a prospective plan holder because of the taxbenefit.
Zurich has explained that Mr Y had the minimum level of insurance cover required to make
his plan a qualifying plan and that it represented a very small proportion of his monthly
contribution. I can see from the fact find that Mr Y already had life cover of £100,000
together with life assurance to cover his mortgage, so he didnt appear to have any particular
need for further cover. However, I dont think the inclusion of the life cover, of itself, meant
the plan was unsuitable for Mr Y.
Inflexibility  length of term
I consider the term of the plan was made clear to Mr Y in the documentation provided. I can
see saving was a recorded priority and I note that Mr Y maintained the plan for the full term
and he hasnt indicated this caused him any difficulty or that he missed any payments. So, I
dont consider the length of term made it unsuitable for Mr Y.
Impact of charges
As I have said, I consider Mr Y was looking to save and achieve some growth on his capital
over the longer term and I dont think he wanted to take more than a low level of risk.
I can see from the product information provided that at his level of contribution the unit
allocation for the regular contributions he made was 97 percent. That meant for every £1 he
paid in only 97 pence would be invested.
I also note that the plan had a monthly expense deduction of £1.50 and an annual
management charge of 1.25%.
Zurich has unfortunately been unable to provide a personal illustration for Mr Ys plan or a
generic illustration for this type of plan for that time, to show the impact of charges on the
investment return. However, it has provided an illustration from 1995, for the same type of
plan, and that illustration shows the impact of the charges, leaving aside the cost of life
cover, was to reduce an investment return of 7.5 percent ( the middle growth rate) to 3.2
percent a year. The illustration provided by Zurich relates to a slightly different time period,
but I think it is likely on balance to be relatively similar to the position for Mr Ys plan.
Zurich has pointed out that the figures quoted on the illustration were estimated, there for 
illustrative purposes and not guaranteed. I agree with Zurich that figures on an illustration 
shouldnt be treated as guaranteed but that also means the performance of the plan could 
potentially be worse than the illustration. It is also right to say that the higher growth rate 
would show a  more favourable return, but I think it is reasonable to look at the middle 
growth rate as something that might be reasonably achieved.  
Zurich has also said that the illustration shouldnt be looked at in isolation and has pointed 
out there isnt a specific illustration available for Mr Ys plan.  I have looked at an illustration 
from a relatively similar time for an indication of the impact of costs on the investment return. 
I havent considered the illustration on its own, as the sole reason for the advice being 
unsuitable. It is part of an overall picture of a recommendation where the charges, and other 
costs- which are set out in the product information- had more than an insignificant impact on 
the potential return and in addition Mr Y  had to take the risk posed by the plan and the funds 
invested in.    
That is why I said in my provisional decision that in any event, I thought the combination of 
the unit allocation, the charges, and the cost of life cover wouldve had more than an 
insignificant impact on the return Mr Y would receive on his contributions. And I didnt think if that had been explained clearly to Mr Y, together with the risk posed by the investment, he 
would have taken out this plan. I still remain of that view. 
I also take into account that the fact find recorded Mr Y had savings in a bank account 
earning four percent interest a year. Zurich says it isnt appropriate to compare this with the 
Maximum Investment Plan. It says unit -linked funds cover a wide range of investment 
returns and, as such, there wouldve been potential for fund performance that was better 
than the illustrative rates.
However, I note that range of investment returns would also include low returns or losses, 
whereas a bank account would provide capital protection and a relatively stable rate of 
return. So, given it appears that level of interest was reasonably achievable at that time, with 
little risk, I am not persuaded on balance that Mr Y wanted to take significantly more risk in 
the circumstances.
Summary
Overall, I dont consider the plan was suitable for Mr Ys circumstances and objectives. I
think if Mr Y had been given suitable advice, he would have invested his monthly
contributions at low risk.
Fair Compensation
The investigator has asked Zurich to compare the performance of Mr Ys plan with a
benchmark, that is an equal combination of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total
Return Index and the average rate from fixed rate bonds. However, that isnt a benchmark
that is appropriate here because of the date when Mr Ys plan was taken out, namely 1993.
Information for the average rate from fixed rate bonds is only available from 1996. So, I
have carefully considered what would be an appropriate benchmark for comparison given
the date when this plan was taken out.
My aim is that Mr Y should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr Y would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Y's
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
Im satisfied Mr Y would still have invested the original premiums to produce a return and I
consider Mr Y wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
So, I think it is fair to assume:
Mr Y would have had the original premiums intact plus a reasonable rate of return on
the date he surrendered his plans;
the rate of return on the original premiums would have been equivalent to 1% more
than the Bank of England base rate from time to time compounded yearly; and
the rate of return would have been by growth, rather than income.
Putting things right
What should Zurich do?Zurich should pay Mr Y, in respect of his Maximum Investment Plan, compensation of D + E,
where:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender;
B = a return on each premium at 1% more than the Bank of England base rate, 
compounded yearly from the date it was paid to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value of the policy he received;
D = A + B  C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender; and
E = simple interest at 8% per year on D from the date of surrender to the date
compensation is paid. Income tax may be payable on this interest.
If Zurich considers that it is legally required to deduct income tax from the interest (E), it
must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr Y can reclaim the tax from the
HM Revenue and Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that Mr Ys complaint against Zurich Assurance Ltd is upheld and it should 
pay Mr Y compensation as outlined above.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman