DRN-3710318
The complaint
Mrs A, as beneficiary of her late husbands pension death benefits and executor of his
estate, complains about the advice given to her husband (Mr A) by AJH Financial Services
Ltd (AJH) in relation to a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme he held with
his then employer. AJH processed the transfer of Mr As DB scheme benefits to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) on an insistent client basis. Mrs A says that as a result
of the advice, her husbands pension value dropped by more than half its value. Mrs A
believes AJH is hiding behind the paperwork it got him to sign  he wasnt financially savvy
despite what AJH recorded.
What happened
Mr A approached AJH in the Summer of 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs
having been introduced to them by a work colleague. Mr A had already met with a number of
other advice firms beforehand.
AJH met with Mr A on 29 August 2017 and it completed a fact-find to gather information
about his circumstances and objectives. Mr As objective was recorded as wanting to retire
at 55 using his pension to repay his debts and retire on the remaining benefits. AJH also
carried out an assessment of Mr As attitude to risk, which it deemed to be highest medium.
The fact-find also records that Mr A said he wanted to manage his own funds and wouldnt
require AJHs services  but it said it would need to carry out its own research before
providing advice.
On 30 September 2017 Mr A wrote a handwritten letter to AJH referring to an email it had
sent him the same day. He thanked AJH for its recommendations and various illustrations,
which he said hed asked for as part of his request to transfer out of his DB scheme. The
letter went on to say that hed had read everything in detail, but that given his background
and experience in managing his own investments over the last 25 years, he believed he had
the necessary knowledge to manage his own retirement planning.
Mr A then said that hed decided which SIPP provider he wanted to invest in and that his
preference was to invest into a cash-based fund. Mr A enclosed the SIPP application form
along with other documents and said that as he was due to go on holiday he hoped
everything could be sorted out as soon as possible.
On 11 October 2017 AJH issued its suitability report (dated 10 October 2017) setting out its
advice. The report outlined Mr As circumstances at the time, which in summary said that he
was married; he was employed in a senior management role; he had sufficient household
income to cover all monthly expenditure; he had an interest-only mortgage with a balance
outstanding of around £280,000; he had cash savings in excess of £10,000; and he held
investments valued at around £190,000.
The report went on to set out the details of Mr As existing DB pension scheme, which
included the transfer value and the amount of pension Mr A could expect from his scheme at
age 60. It also said the critical yield required to match Mr As existing benefits was 5.2%
based on a reduced pension and a tax-free cash lump sum at age 60, and 5.5% on the
same basis if he retired at 55.
The report said that Mr As objectives were to maximise the tax-free cash payable, provide a
sufficient and sustainable retirement income at 55, and provide flexibility and death benefits
for his wife and children thereafter. It elaborated by saying that Mr As retirement plans were
predicated on his concern that he was likely to be made redundant in the near future or
suffer a reduction in income due to a downgraded role.
AJH recorded that Mr As existing DB scheme had introduced a pension cap which was
lower than his current salary, which meant he couldnt increase his final pension by way of
income. It said that Mr A had opted out of the DB scheme and would join the new Defined
Contribution (DC) scheme, which would not be subject to a salary cap and would enable
him to build up further pension provision to support his retirement income.
The report also set out what the adviser said Mr A had explained were his plans for self-
management of his retirement funds. It said that Mr A intended to invest his pension monies
into a cash-based fund within a SIPP and then utilise its stock trading facility to invest around
7% of the transfer value in a particular companys shares, which hed been monitoring. It
said he intended to keep the remainder in cash until such time as the markets fell
whereupon hed start to drip-feed money back into the market.
The report went on to comment on Mr As strategy. In summary AJH said that it believed this
was a higher risk strategy than Mr A believed. It said leaving the monies in cash anticipating
a market fall would mean his monies were subject to the effects of inflation as well as any
plan charges, which would have a bearing on the investment. It also said that because Mr A
intended to invest for a period of at least 11 years, his money should be invested  leaving it
in cash might be detrimental to his fund given he wanted to repay his mortgage from his
pension.
The report then set out AJHs recommendation. After a comparison of the fees, charges and
nature of the SIPP Mr A said he wanted to invest in, versus the personal pension plan AJH
had based its illustrations on, it recommended Mr A should transfer his pension benefits into
a personal pension and invest the proceeds with a major insurer in one of its managed
investment portfolios in line with Mr As attitude to risk. But it said that it was unable to
support Mr As wishes to transfer to the SIPP provider hed chosen, regardless of what age
he intended to take his benefits. It said this was because of his plans to keep his funds in
cash and invest in a single company share, which it deemed high risk. It also said that 
self-management put the onus on Mr A to achieve the growth required to produce his 
retirement benefits.
The report concluded by saying that if Mr A still wished to transfer to his preferred SIPP
provider, AJH would need a letter from him confirming that his plans were against its advice
before it would act on his behalf.
The same day, Mr A sent AJH an email instructing it to send off his SIPP application
because of the timescale on an investment he wanted to make.
AJH duly submitted Mr As SIPP application and the transfer went ahead towards the end of
October 2017. Shortly after the transfer monies were received by the SIPP provider, Mr A
set up a stock trading account and over the course of the coming weeks he made a number
of execution-only share purchases in a handful of companies.In November 2017 AJH sent Mr A a letter which summarised the advice it had given and that
it could not support his strategy, but that hed decided to go against the recommendation and
proceed as he intended.
Mr A sadly died in 2019 and in November 2020 Mrs A complained to AJH about the
suitability of the transfer advice. In summary she said that her husband wasnt capable of
managing his pension monies despite what AJH recorded and believes her husband would
still be alive if hed not been allowed the opportunity of managing things himself. She says
the pension fund is significantly diminished as a result.
AJH didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. In summary it said:
Mr A had already sought advice from other firms, but due to their high fees he was 
recommended to AJH.
Mr A had a clear retirement plan to repay his interest only mortgage.
Mr A didnt want to be subjected to the early retirement penalties of his DB scheme 
by retiring at 55.
 Mr A had already made the decision to become a deferred member of his DB 
scheme prior to him dealing with AJH.
The assessment of Mr As attitude to risk was that he was a high-risk investor scoring 
seven on a scale of one to ten. While Mr A said he wanted to follow a low risk 
strategy by only investing a maximum of around £60,000, AJH deemed this as high 
risk.
AJH undertook due diligence on the SIPP Mr A said he wanted to invest in to ensure 
it supported what hed told them.
The suitability report was clear about the risks and that it did not support a transfer 
out of the DB scheme for Mr A to manage things himself.
AJH agreed to treat Mr A as an insistent client only after a practice meeting.
Mr As handwritten letter described himself as an experienced investor and he stated 
on a number of occasions that he had the knowledge to manage his monies himself.
AJH did not recommend Mr A transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP  he made that 
decision himself through the insistent client process. AJH cant be held responsible 
for Mr As actions.
AJH felt deceived by Mr A as a series of investment contract notes it was sent by the 
SIPP provider show that he invested significantly more in individual company shares 
than he led them to believe would be the case.
Mrs A referred her complaint to our service.
I issued my provisional decision of August 2022 in which I said that I was likely to not uphold 
the complaint providing my reasons for reaching this provisional conclusion.
AJH didnt reply to my provisional decision.
Mrs A replied indicating her disappointment with my provisional decision. Attaching two 
emails from third parties as supporting evidence, in summary she said:
The previous advice firm Mr A tried to use to transfer his pension was clear that 
he was not qualified to manage his own investments.
The available evidence shows that without AJH Mr A wouldnt have gone ahead 
in any event because he couldnt find a firm to carry things out for him.Evidence from a third party shows that AJH was keen to get information from 
them to say that it didnt advise the transfer of Mr As pension benefits away from 
the DB scheme. They also said it was implied that moving the money was the 
right thing to do.
Evidence from a third party shows that AJH were involved in the process to get 
Mr A to write a handwritten letter to say that he wanted to go against its advice. 
This evidence shows how AJH were managing the whole process and protecting 
themselves rather than their client.
Mr A introduced two other clients to AJH, which Mrs A believes was at the 
forefront of AJHs mind because of the large fee income it could earn from 
transacting all of the business. AJH discounted the fee Mr A paid to further 
cement the transaction. Mrs A believes AJH were determined to secure the 
business for their own benefit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, while I understand Mrs A will remain disappointed, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it
is unsuitable. So, AJH should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate
that the transfer was in Mr As best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
A key aspect in this case is AJHs categorisation of Mr A as an insistent client - this is a
client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended and wants
the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there were no regulatory rules in place in respect of insistent
clients. But in February 2016 the regulator provided guidance on its website about what
steps it expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client.
There are three key steps, which it set out on its website as follows.
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must 
be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If 
the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. 
These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a pension 
transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the defined 
contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not suitable (see 
COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that
he/she is acting against it advice. It also added that if the client used their own words to
indicate that they want to act against its advice, this would normally be clear. The regulator
also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good and poor practice.
It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the receiving
product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome in a
separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented.
Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I wouldve expected AJH to have been aware of this
and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the regulators
expectations.
AJH says that Mr A was an insistent client who understood that it did not support his strategy
and it was against its advice to transfer out to a cash-based SIPP for him to self-manage his
retirement funds. Mrs A says Mr A was not an experienced investor and wasnt capable of
managing his own pension. Mrs A says that a previous advice firm Mr A sought help from 
wouldnt carry out his request because it didnt consider he was an experienced investor 
capable of manging things himself.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, while I accept its possible there
were shortcomings in both AJHs advice and the process of how it treated Mr A as an
insistent client, even if AJH had done everything it shouldve done, I think Mr A would still 
have gone ahead with the transfer of his pension to the SIPP and made the subsequent 
investments.
AJHs recommendation was that Mr A should transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal
pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in a managed portfolio, which it deemed
matched Mr As medium to high attitude to risk. And based on Mr As circumstances, his
objectives of wanting to retire at 55 and use his tax-free cash lump sum to repay his
mortgage, his attitude to risk, his income requirement at his preferred retirement age of 55,
and the critical yield AJH referred to in its suitability report of October 2017, I dont think the
recommendation to transfer as set out in the suitability report was wholly unsuitable for Mr A. 
Despite what I think Mrs A is trying to show with the third-party evidence shes provided, AJH 
didnt have to recommend Mr A should remain in his DB pension scheme if it believed it was 
in his best interests to transfer his benefits to a personal arrangement.
But I dont think my finding on this particular point is important to the outcome of the 
complaint. This is because, even if I thought AJHs recommendation to transfer was
unsuitable and it shouldve advised Mr A to remain in his DB scheme, I think he wouldve 
insisted on going ahead with the transfer anyway and wouldve executed his plan as he 
intended.
Equally I accept its possible there were shortcomings in AJHs process and how it treatedMr A as an insistent client. For example, there are gaps in the evidence AJH has provided 
in particular Ive not seen the email of 30 September 2017 Mr A referred to in his insistent
client letter of the same date, or a record / file note of any phone conversation there might
have been and which appears to have prompted Mr A to write his letter. On the face of it, it
appears Mr A chose to go ahead regardless before he received AJHs full suitability report.
This means I cant fairly say things happened as they should have. But again, even if AJH
had done everything it shouldve done, I think Mr A would still have gone ahead and 
transferred his pension to the SIPP and made the subsequent investments.
Why I think Mr A would still have gone ahead anyway but for AJHs shortcomings
It was Mr A who contacted AJH with a view to transferring his DB pension scheme benefits
to a personal arrangement, and that he wanted to self-manage his pension monies. Its not
disputed that Mr A had entered discussions with a number of other advice firms prior to
meeting with AJH. And Ive seen evidence from two firms in the form of a fact-find document
and a letter, which indicate that those discussions were along exactly the same lines as the
one he had with AJH. I can also see that one of the firms declined to carry out Mr As wishes
because he didnt want its advice service and it wasnt willing to deal with him on an 
execution only or insistent client basis.
Mrs A says this is evidence that Mr A wasnt capable of managing things himself - the firm 
was clear that he wasnt an experienced investor. I understand Mrs As point here. But a firm 
can decide not to transact business for a particular client if it doesnt want to. In this case it 
was because it appears its policy was that it required a client to hold certain qualifications 
before it would transact business without advice and on the basis Mr A was seeking. But this 
wasnt a regulatory rule  it was an individual business decision and what appears to have 
been its interpretation of the rules at the time. 
I can see that Mr A had already made the decision to opt out of his DB scheme prior to his
meeting with AJH  evidence indicates that Mr A submitted his paperwork to do this in
August 2017, albeit I understand it missed his employers payroll cut off and it wasnt
actioned until September 2017. While I accept Mr A had other reasons for opting out of his
DB scheme at the time  his employer had a salary cap in place on which contributions were
based - I think this supports the evidence above that Mr A was motivated to transfer and
hed already made up his mind and was willing to take extra steps to enable the transfer to
happen.
In further support of Mr As motivation to transfer out of his DB scheme, I think the evidence
is clear that Mr A had clear plans and a strategy for what he wanted to achieve and how he
wanted to go about it by transferring. From the initial fact-find meeting with Mr A, its clearly
documented that his overall intention was to aim to retire at 55 and use the enhanced tax- 
free cash lump sum that would likely be available from transferring out to a personal pension
arrangement to repay his interest-only mortgage. And because of the size of Mr As 
mortgage, this wasnt achievable by remaining in his DB scheme even if hed waited until the
schemes normal retirement age of 60.
Mr As intended investment strategy was also clearly documented in AJHs advice
paperwork. Here it says that he intended to use a particular SIPP provider and he wanted to
invest his pension proceeds in a cash-based fund. This was because Mr A wanted to make
an investment in one particular company while keeping the rest in cash, allowing him to 
choose when to drip-feed money back into the investment markets.
So it strikes me that Mr A had thought carefully about what he wanted to do and hed formeda clear plan for his transferred pension monies  I dont think he approached AJH with the
intention of relying on the advice and process AJH employed.
Turning to Mr As insistent client letters, the first of which he wrote on 30 September 2017.
As I said above, there is missing evidence from around this time, which appears to have
prompted Mr A in writing this letter. Im mindful that he wrote this prior to AJH providing him
with its full suitability report, so he didnt yet formally know what AJHs advice was. But on
the other hand, as I also said above, Mr As intentions were clear from the outset and are
clearly documented. So, it doesnt strike me as odd that Mr A wrote this at this time or that it
was wrong for AJH to have discussed the steps he needed to take if he wanted to pursue
things regardless.
The insistent client letter is handwritten and appears to be in Mr As own words  its not
templated for example. Mrs A says the third-party evidence shes provided shows that AJH 
were involved in this process because it insisted on a handwritten letter. But insisting on a 
handwritten letter was good industry practice at the time as I set out at the start. This is 
because it helped to show that a client really understood what they were doing and the risks 
involved with their intended course of action. So it doesnt surprise me that AJH required a 
handwritten letter from Mr A  indeed it demonstrates that it was following regulatory 
guidance. 
I think Mr A makes his intentions clear in his letter and that he understood what he was 
doing and he wasnt going to be persuaded to change his plans. Mr A said here
that he considered he had the necessary understanding and desire to manage his own
retirement planning as well as the necessary experience, referring to working in the financial
services sector and 25 years of managing his own investments.
As I said earlier on, I understand Mrs A has questioned her husbands knowledge and 
experience of being able to self-manage his pension. But I think its clear from his insistent 
client letter that Mr A believed he did possess these things. And Ive not seen anything to 
suggest these arent his own words. I dont think the evidence indicates that Mr A was a 
novice investor - he held a not inconsiderable sum of money in investments and his 
occupation would suggest to me that he likely had a good and above average financial 
services industry knowledge. So, I dont think AJH couldve reasonably been expected to 
question what Mr A said about his experience and knowledge.
Im also mindful of the sense of urgency Mr A conveys in his insistent client letter. He
enclosed a completed SIPP application and the other necessary paperwork to carry out the
transfer. Mr A also wrote that he wanted to wrap this up asap so I can organise the deposit
a/cs... This urgency was further expressed by Mr A in an email he sent AJH on 11 October
2017 prior to receipt of the suitability report, which AJH sent to him that day. Here he
requested AJH to ...send off my SIPP application form today due to the urgencies I have
outlined with timescales on an investment I wish to make.
Mr A went on to say that, he understood his request was being made before hed received
the full suitability report but said I am absolutely certain with my choice of SIPP and self-
management as explained within my letter. 
Furthermore he ended his email by saying I understand I am wholly responsible for this 
request and would like to ensure that you have no liability whatsoever for any consequence 
of me making this decision today.
Again Ive seen nothing to persuade me that these arent Mr As own words. So taking
everything into account, I think its clear that Mr A was intent on carrying out his plan and
that he believed it was in his best interests to enable him to meet his objective.While Mr A instructed AJH to submit his SIPP paperwork before receipt of the suitability
report, Im satisfied he did receive it. I also think its likely that its contents were discussed
with Mr A. Looking at the report, despite any shortcomings there might have been in AJHs
advice process, it did say that it didnt support Mr As wish to transfer his DB scheme
benefits to a SIPP regardless of what age he wanted to take his benefits. It also talked about
the risks associated with Mr As intended course of action.
It referred to the risk of Mr A self-managing his investment; the risks associated with trying to
time the market; the risk of inflation eroding the value of the investment given Mr As desire
to invest in cash; the risk of not being invested and missing out on potential growth; and it
pointed out that Mr As approach wasnt a low risk strategy as he believed, but instead was
high risk.
Yet despite Mr A being told these things, he still chose to go ahead. Again I think this is
evidence that Mr A was intent on transferring regardless of what AJH told him and the advice
it provided.
Turning back to Mr As SIPP application, I can see that he didnt authorise the SIPP provider
to accept any investment instructions from AJH. He also indicated that he wanted to carry
out execution-only stock trades and that he would be the only person allowed to give these
instructions. Furthermore, shortly after the SIPP provider received the transferred pension
monies, Mr A gave instructions to remove AJH as servicing agents. In my view this is further
evidence that Mr A wasnt relying on AJHs advice or its ongoing service. I think its clear that
Mr A wanted to manage things himself as hed indicated he wanted to do from the outset.
I can see that Mr A went on to make significant investments in only a handful of
companies. And while this wasnt something hed indicated he was willing to do, it is in my
view supporting evidence that Mr A wanted to manage his pension funds himself and 
believed that he had the necessary skill and experience to do so  he wasnt relying on the 
advice and guidance of a professional adviser.
I understand that Mrs A feels her husband shouldnt have been given the opportunity of
managing his pension himself  I think shes implying that overall AJH shouldve refused to
transact Mr As request. But AJH were allowed to deal with Mr A  the financial services
regulator permitted AJH to carry out Mr As pension transfer on an insistent client basis. And
I dont think there were any reasons why AJH shouldve refused to carry things out, 
particularly in light of what Mr A said about his investment experience and his clear plans for 
the money.
Finally Mrs A has referred to the reduced fee of 0.5% Mr A was charged compared to the 
0.75% the two other third parties who received advice at the same time were charged, which 
she believes indicates that AJH were determined to secure the business for their own 
benefit. But I can see that Mr A latterly agreed to a 0.75% fee in line with the others because 
he wanted things to be concluded as a priority. But in any event, Im not persuaded the fee 
AJH charged and Mr A agreed to is important to the outcome of this complaint.
Summary
Overall, while I accept its possible that there were shortcomings in the advice and insistent
client process employed by AJH in dealing with Mr A, for the reasons Ive set out above
I think Mr A had made up his mind about what he wanted to do and was willing to take the 
necessary extra steps to enact the transfer. So, even if AJH had done everything it should 
have done, I think Mr A wouldve still gone ahead and transferred his pension andmade the subsequent investments.
I have read and considered everything Mrs A has said, particularly what shes said in 
response to my provisional decision and the accompanying emails from the third parties who 
received advice from AJH around the same time as Mr A. But these things dont change my 
decision. The email accounts from the third parties are about their interactions with AJH not 
Mr As which is what this complaint is about. But in any event Ive not seen anything here 
which undermines the evidence Ive seen and relied on. I understand Mrs A is concerned 
that AJH approached one of the third parties to get them to say that it didnt advise Mr A to 
transfer out of his DB scheme. But I think it did this simply to help support its case  I dont 
think there is anything untoward here. In any event, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen 
and which Ive referred to above that AJH did not recommend that Mr A transfer his DB 
scheme benefits to the SIPP provider hed chosen or in any way support the course of action 
he wanted to take. 
So for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman