DRN-4000977
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) based its settlement offer on 
removal and reinstatement of sanitaryware which they say wasnt provided for in their 
buildings insurance policy.
The policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading and because she brought the 
complaint, Ill refer mainly to Mrs M throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs M suffered an escape of water in her bathroom which caused damage to the garage 
ceiling below. She had the leak traced and fixed, and then claimed under her buildings 
insurance for the garage ceiling and replacement of the tiles and sanitaryware in her 
bathroom.
QIC assessed the damage, accepted the claim, and offered to cover:
the cost of the tiles that needed replacing; 
50% towards the undamaged tiles;
50% towards the cost of the trace and access and repair;
repairs to the garage ceiling, and 
to carry out the work using its contractors. 
QIC offered its own contractors or a cash settlement. Mrs M provided quotes to get the work 
done herself. After some initial disagreement about how much of the tiling was covered, QIC 
offered a cash settlement of a little under £3,000 which is what it wouldve cost using its own 
contractors.
Mrs M complained to QIC about the offer. She said it was based on her needing to remove 
the sanitaryware and refit it, whereas she said her policy specifically stated QIC wouldnt 
require her to do that. Mrs M said the quotes she received were based on replacement 
because the contractors said the sanitaryware would be damaged on removal. Therefore, 
Mrs M wanted QIC to make an offer based on replacement rather than refit.
QIC said the policy didnt provide cover for undamaged items so it wouldnt cover 
replacement sanitaryware that wasnt damaged. Mrs M remained unhappy and brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think QIC had handled the claim fairly, so she upheld the complaint. 
Our investigator said QICs offer to cover the damaged tiles and 50% towards the 
undamaged tiles was fair. But she thought that because QICs surveyor said the 
sanitaryware would need replacing, it mustve been damaged. The surveyor also included 
the garage ceiling in the assessment of damage. Our investigator proposed that QIC include 
the sanitaryware and the garage ceiling in the claim settlement, and that it should pay £100 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
QIC didnt agree. It said on review of the photos taken by its surveyor, there was no 
evidence that the sanitaryware was damaged. Therefore, QIC maintained that replacement 
of the sanitaryware wasn't covered by the policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The overriding issue is that Mrs M doesnt think QIC made a fair offer to settle her claim, 
specifically in relation to the sanitaryware. QIC said its offer was in line with the policy, and 
included an additional payment towards Mrs Ms plumber, despite not having evidence of the 
split in charges.
Ive looked at the policy documents that Mrs M kindly provided, but I didnt find any evidence 
to support her claim that QIC wouldnt ask her to remove and refit the sanitaryware. After 
asking her to explain why she thinks that, she pointed to the following policy wording:
Buildings also includes the permanent fixtures and fittings in or mounted upon the 
buildings that could not easily be removed and reused, such as fixed sanitary fittings 
(for example, toilets, sinks and baths) and laminated, wood-effect or vinyl floor coverings.  
However, this wording simply explains what will be considered under the buildings section of 
the policy rather than the contents section. Its explaining that anything which couldnt easily 
be removed and reused would be considered under the buildings definition. It isnt saying 
that QIC would never ask her to reuse fixtures and fittings which might be difficult to remove 
and reuse. All this wording does, is confirm that sanitaryware is covered under the buildings 
section of the policy, and its under that section which QIC wouldve considered any damage 
to the sanitaryware.
I accept that QIC would be required to replace the sanitaryware in line with the policy if it had 
been damaged. But the photos dont show any sign of damage and I dont think Mrs M 
claimed that there was any. Her point was that removing the sanitaryware would cause 
damage, so she wanted QIC to cover replacement.
Ive thought about this, but I cant fairly ask QIC to include in its claim settlement the cost for 
something that hasnt happened. If the sanitaryware is accidentally damaged on removal, 
whether using QICs contractors or her own, then it may be that Mrs M can make a separate 
claim. Mrs M may wish to refer to point 12 in the buildings section of her policy, headed 
Accidental damage to glass and sanitary fittings. But at this point I see no reason to ask QIC 
to include the cost of replacing the undamaged sanitaryware.
Looking at the scope of work on which QIC based its cash settlement offer, Im satisfied it 
includes all aspects of Mrs Ms claim. The list includes a repair to the garage ceiling, 
replacement of damaged tiles, replacement of the tiled bath panel, and 50% towards the 
undamaged tiles. QIC also offered a 50% contribution towards Mrs Ms plumbers costs, 
even though theres no breakdown of charges and some of the cost may not be covered 
under the policy. I understand Mrs M thinks all tiles should be paid for, but her policy 
specifically states:
3. Pairs, sets and suites We will not pay the cost of replacing or repairing any undamaged 
parts of the building which form part of a pair, set, suite or part of a common design.Therefore, as the undamaged tiles arent covered under the policy, Im satisfied that QIC 
made a fair offer to contribute 50% of the cost. Its in line with what I wouldve required had 
QIC not made an offer in respect of this part of the claim.
Cash settlement
The policy states that if it offers to complete the work, but Mrs M prefers a cash settlement, 
QIC need only pay what it wouldve cost it to use its own contractors. So, if Mrs M accepted 
QICs offer to complete the work, shed only need to pay her policy excess and any 
contribution to the tiles not covered under the policy.
If she accepts the cash settlement, Mrs M would receive the amount QIC offered less her 
policy excess. I think thats fair and in line with the policy.
Overall, the evidence as it stands persuades me that QIC made a fair settlement offer to Mrs 
M. I havent identified anything to suggest QIC treated Mrs M unfairly in its handling of her 
claim, or caused her any loss or significant, avoidable inconvenience. Therefore, I dont plan 
to ask QIC to do any more.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
QIC had nothing further to add.
Mrs M accepted the cash settlement offer. But she asked for a guarantee that QIC would 
pay for any damage caused to her sanitaryware when removing and refitting it during 
repairs. Ill address this request in my findings, below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint for the same reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision
That said, Ill comment further on the issue Mrs M raised.
I can understand that Mrs M wanted some sort of guarantee that QIC would pay for any 
damage caused during repairs. Thats not something I can require QIC to do. My remit is to 
look at whats already happened and decide whether it was fair in the circumstances. For the 
reasons Ive given, I think it was. If accidental damage is caused to the sanitaryware during 
removal or refit, Mrs M may wish to claim under her policy. I cant reasonably say which 
policy she should claim under because it depends on how the damage is caused and by 
whom. For example, if QICs contractors cause the damage, Id expect them to put it right. If 
Mrs Ms contractors cause the damage, it may be a new claim with her new insurer or QIC 
may cover the cost of replacement. Either way, Mrs M would need to show that she suffered 
a loss covered by her policy terms and conditions.  
The overriding point here is that when QIC made its offer to Mrs M, there hadnt been any 
damage to the sanitaryware for it to consider. So, I cant include a remedy here in 
anticipation of something which may or may not happen in the future.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman