DRN-4258687
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with Halifax, who is a trading name of Bank of Scotland plc. Mrs S 
complains Halifax lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs S fell victim to an investment scam in early 2022. As part of the scam, Mrs S was led to 
believe she needed to pay fees and charges to withdraw funds from her investment. She 
didnt have the funds to meet these costs and so, over a space of three weeks, Mrs S and 
her husband applied to borrow £156,450 over 11 loans with several different lenders. 
In April 2022 Mrs S applied to Halifax for, and was given a loan for £10,100, which was 
repayable over a period of 60 months. The repayments were around £221 a month, and in 
total Mrs S agreed to pay back about £13,265 over the five years, after interest was added. 
Mrs S says she was groomed and coached by the scammers on how to apply for the loans. 
Mrs S thinks Halifax should have checked her circumstances more thoroughly before 
agreeing to lend because with better checks, Halifax ought to have seen she could not afford 
this loan.
Halifax says it completed appropriate checks before it approved lending to Mrs S and these 
showed the borrowing was affordable. It also ran checks to verify Mrs S details including her 
name, address and bank details and these didnt lead it to believe the loan application wasn't 
made by Mrs S.
Halifax didnt uphold Mrs S complaint but in an act of forbearance given her predicament, it 
agreed to suspend the interest charges whilst it and her other bank continued to look into the 
scam. In June 2022, Halifax transferred the loan to its collections department with Mrs S not 
having made a repayment to the account and only £28.12 interest added to the original 
£10,100 she borrowed.
Unhappy with the response Mrs S got from Halifax, she brought her complaint to this 
service. Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He concluded that with reasonable and 
proportionate checks, Halifax would have considered Mrs S unable to sustainably afford this 
loan. He recommended that Halifax should remove all interest and charges from the loan 
and arrange an affordable repayment plan for the balance going forward. He also 
recommended Halifax remove any negative information about the loan from Mrs S credit 
file.
Halifax accepted the Investigators findings and recommendation to put matters right.
Mrs S disagreed with the Investigator and she thinks Halifax should forgo collecting on the 
loan altogether.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
Mrs S loan with Halifax is the sixth in the chain of nine accepted loan applications and this 
decision is looking only at this one loan agreement. I am aware Mrs S (and her husband) 
have referred other cases concerning some of the other loan applications and these have 
been looked at under separate case references.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs S complaint. Im sorry to hear of the 
devastating impact this matter has had, and is having on, Mrs S and her family. I dont wish 
to cause them any further distress  but I must give my decision based on what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable, taking account of all evidence in the circumstances relating to this 
individual case. Ive considered Mrs S submissions carefully, but Im not persuaded to reach 
a different outcome from the Investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
Halifax needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs S irresponsibly. It 
should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs S 
would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. There is no set list of what reasonable 
and proportionate checks should look like. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders 
checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to 
verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
Halifax did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. Halifax has said Mrs S 
would not have been offered the loan if she had not passed its checking criteria. In 
summary, it explained that part of its checks involved reviewing Mrs S credit profile to 
assess her income and expenditure, and it also used information from Mrs S active credit 
file.
At this point, I do think its important for me to set out that Halifax was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan 
payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. And as 
Mrs S banked with Halifax, it already knew a fair amount of information about her income 
and expenditure.
Mrs S told Halifax she was married with three dependants, that she was a homeowner 
without a mortgage, she was employed with a monthly income of £2,800, and her 
expenditure totalling £890 per month. Halifax assessed Mrs S affordability separately, 
revising her declared expenditure with housing costs at £840 a month, her monthly 
repayments to unsecured credit at £746, her essential monthly living costs at £455 and 
another significant commitment at £50  all of which would leave Mrs S with £709 available a 
month.  
So, the values Halifax used to assess the loan affordability were significantly higher than 
those Mrs S had declared. This said, I share the Investigators concern that Halifax 
overlooked Mrs S declaring she was a homeowner without a mortgage when it was her 
mortgage lender, and crucially, her understatement of expenditure. I think these ought to 
have prompted further interrogation of Mrs S circumstances and so I dont find Halifaxs 
checks reasonable and proportionate.
Halifax, as both Mrs S mortgage lender and her current account provider, had access to a 
large amount of information about Mrs S income and expenditure. Halifax says looking at 
this information would disadvantage its existing customers over those applying for a loan 
who dont bank with them. But I think its fair to say this doesnt take away from the responsibility of carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks for each application, using 
not only what is declared by an individual, but what is already reasonably known.  
In any event, I am only interested in Mrs S application. And given Halifaxs checks showed 
she had declared inaccurate expenditure details, I think it would have been reasonable for 
the lender to have reviewed Mrs S existing account activity. Had it done so, Halifax ought to 
have seen a significant increase in the account turnover, with over £33,000 crediting her 
account from four other lenders. And the repayments to those advances alone would mean 
Mrs S didnt have enough free income to sustainably repay the £221 monthly commitment to 
the loan she was applying for. 
Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have shown Halifax that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mrs S.
Finally, Ive considered whether Halifax ought to have identified Mrs S application was in 
connection to the investment scam she had fallen victim to. Although I think better checks 
ought to have led to Halifax spotting the loans from other lenders, Im not convinced they 
also ought to have shown Halifax Mrs S didnt intend to put the loan monies towards paying 
for home improvements  which is what shed described as the purpose of the loan. The 
funds were released to her bank account with Halifax, which it could see belonged to Mrs S. 
So, I cant fairly say Halifax could have prevented Mrs S investment in the scam at this time.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mrs S in the position she would now be in if she hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mrs S 
was given the loan and she used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo whats 
already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mrs S back in the position she would be in if 
she hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
I note Mrs S wants Halifax to forgo collecting on the loan altogether. Mrs S says she did not 
benefit from the loan because the funds were lost to an investment scam. As I explained in 
the above, it was not foreseeable to Halifax how Mrs S intended to use the loan funds. Mrs S 
did have the benefit of the loan funds insofar as they were paid to her bank account, albeit 
she then transferred most to her account with another bank before transferring them again 
and losing the money to the scam. Mr and Mrs S have approached both their banks  
Halifax and the other  to seek the reimbursement of those funds and their responses are 
under separate consideration by this service. In the circumstances, I cannot reasonably hold 
Halifax responsible for all or part of Mrs S loss of the loan moneys to the scam or tell it to 
write-off the loan.
I must consider another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I note that Mrs S failed to make any repayment to the account before Halifax charged off the 
account to collections. Only £28.12 interest was added to the original £10,100 Mrs S 
borrowed, with another interest charge already refunded.I think it is fair for Mrs S to repay the £10,100 capital she borrowed but without interest, fees 
and charges. So, Halifax should refund the £28.12 interest it charged back into the account 
and ensure no further interest, fees or charges are applied to the debt going forward. As 
Halifax has now transferred the debt to its collection department, it should agree with Mrs S 
an affordable repayment plan if one is not yet in place. Finally, once the debt has been 
repaid, Halifax should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs S credit file 
because of this loan.
I would only remind Halifax about its obligations to treat Mrs S fairly and offer due 
forbearance should she now find herself in financial hardship.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs S complaint. Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, should put things right for her in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman