DRN-2725841
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) failed to investigate a 
problem with her hot water system despite her raising this at annual service visits.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case and received further comments from 
BG and Mrs H which Ive taken into account .
What happened
Mrs H has had a HomeCare insurance policy with BG for over 30 years. After she purchased 
a new kitchen and boiler around 10 years ago she found that the hot water was never 
reaching the desired temperature. When she raised this with BG on a number of occasions, 
she was told that this was because the boiler wasnt appropriate for the size of her home and 
the only solution was a new boiler. Mrs H accepted this explanation and says she put up with 
inadequate hot water for 10 years because she didnt want to go to the expense of replacing 
her boiler.
In 2020 she mentioned this issue to another (non - BG) engineer who was doing work in her 
bathroom. He quickly identified that the diverter valve was faulty. He also recommended that 
the heat exchanger was checked or cleaned at the same time. Mrs H reported this to BG 
and it sent an engineer who agreed with the diagnosis. On examining the boiler he found 
that the diverter valve was blocked and the plate heat exchanger had a hole in it. These 
problems were rectified since which time Mrs H has had an excellent supply of hot water.
Mrs H is upset that for 10 years she repeatedly mentioned the hot water problem to various 
BG engineers when they undertook her annual boiler service, but none of them considered 
that this was a problem that should be investigated, and instead blamed the size of her 
boiler. 
BG has said that it has no record of Mrs H having raised any concerns, and that unless 
shed requested a repair, a fault couldnt be diagnosed. Its also explained that the purpose 
of an Annual Service is to ensure that a boiler is working safely and efficiently. During an 
Annual Service its engineers would remove the front of the boiler casing and visually inspect 
the inside of the boiler for signs of water leaks, mechanical deterioration and signs of heat 
stress. Engineers would also always carry out a combustion check. Should these checks 
highlight any issues, or should there be any visible issues, such as a water leak or corrosion, 
further checks would be carried out and the appliance would be either repaired or made 
safe. 
BG also said that it had nothing to show that Mrs Hs annual services had not been 
completed correctly, and there hadnt been a significant number of problems reported on her 
boiler.
BG has also explained that if a customer reports a fault to an engineer whos conducting an 
annual service, the engineer will either look at the fault while hes there if he has time, or if 
not, will arrange for a follow up visit for another time. As it had no record of any faults being 
reported, it therefore rejected the complaint.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with BGs response to her complaint and brought it to this service. Our 
investigator s view was that as there were no records of Mrs H having complained to the BG 
engineers conducting her annual boiler service, then BG wasnt aware of the problem. He 
therefore didnt think it would be fair to ask BG to do anything.
Mrs H doesnt accept our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me to give a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint, and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at BGs visit log for Mrs Hs property to see what it records about the problem 
Mrs H says she had. From this I note that in 2011 there is a record of the engineer on that 
occasion recording Code 0 Boiler not meeting customer expectations but OK. There are no 
other comments made in BGs visit log. 
I asked BG for a copy of its Service Protocol as Mrs H has made reference to this. BG 
provided a copy of this in response to my provisional decision. I note that Section 12 of this 
provides that as part of a service one of the checks to be performed is of the heat input. It 
states:
Where the maximum heat input cannot be achieved in accordance with the MIs / 
data badge further investigation will be necessary to determine the reason e.g. 
restricted heat exchanger, inadequate appliance inlet working pressure etc.
It has also provided its explanation as to the process its engineers are supposed to follow if 
a customer raises an issue with them during the course of an annual service, and Ive made 
reference to this process above.
 
Although there is only one record in BGs visit log of Mrs Hs boiler not meeting expectations, 
I consider it more likely than not that Mrs H did raise the problem she had with her water 
temperature with engineers who visited for her annual services, although BGs records show 
that Mrs H didnt have annual services performed in 2013, 2016 and 2019. She says she 
had to boil a kettle when doing washing up, and she installed an electric shower because her 
boiler wasnt up to providing the hot water needed, so Im sure she wouldve been eager for 
a solution.  
But Mrs H didnt report a fault directly to BG because she says shed been told on a number 
of occasions when shed raised the problem with servicing engineers that it was simply her 
boiler not being of the right size for her house. I can understand why Mrs H might not have 
reported a fault having been told this a number of times.
In my view, there was a failure by engineers who visited Mrs H between 2006 and 2020 to 
identify that there was problem with Mrs Hs water temperature when she told them about it. 
It appears from BGs service protocol that heat input is one of the checks thats required. 
The quick check that Mrs Hs third-party engineer did, which simply involved running the hot 
tap and then feeling the two pipes under her boiler, enabled him to identify the problem. Only 
one of these, the hot water pipe, shouldve been hot if hot water was being drawn. If both 
this pipe and the central heating flow pipe became hot, which appears to have been the 
case, an engineer shouldve suspected a problem with the diverter valve or plate heat 
exchanger, and therefore the need for a repair. If they didnt have time for this, they couldve advised Mrs H to arrange for a repair visit, or couldve arranged for this themselves. But they 
all appear to have placed the blame on the size of the boiler without further investigation.
I therefore consider that BG shouldve done more to investigate why Mrs Hs boiler wasnt 
providing adequate hot water. Its failure to do so caused her considerable inconvenience in 
that for a number of years she had to work around an inadequate hot water supply. 
I believe that BG should pay Mrs H compensation for this inconvenience. Ive taken account 
of BGs argument that it can only attend to a problem if its been notified of it. But in this case 
I consider that its engineers shouldve identified the problem either as part of the service 
process or in response to Mrs H informing them of it, which Im satisfied she wouldve done. 
If the visiting engineer didnt have time to investigate himself, he shouldve arranged for 
another engineer to do so. It appears that a simple check by a knowledgeable engineer 
quickly identified the cause of the problem.
My provisional view was that compensation of £500 would be appropriate in this case to 
reflect the lengthy period of time during which Mrs H suffered considerable inconvenience. In 
response to my provisional decision, Mrs H has asked me to consider increasing this sum. 
Shes compared this to the amount shes paid BG over the years for her cover. 
Ive taken Mrs Hs submissions into account, but Ive also taken into account that Mrs H 
received a number of other benefits from her HomeCare policy. She may have had little 
need to call upon it over the years shes had it, but the cover it provided her with for a 
number of domestic incidents was available to her should she have needed it. Its in the 
nature of insurance policies that they are there for when incidents happen, and more often 
than not they dont, but one cant obtain a refund of premium if no use is made of them. I 
therefore consider that £500 remains fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs H 
compensation of £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman