DRN-2775240
The complaint
Mr S complains about NewDay Ltd (NewDay) for credit limit increases which were offered
to him on his Aqua and Marbles cards. He believes that these increases were irresponsible
as he had substantial other debt and he had high spending on gambling on his cards. He
wants NewDay to refund interest charged to his cards.  
What happened
Mr S has previously experienced issues with credit.
In autumn 2015, he applied for an Aqua credit card with NewDay. He declared that he had
an income of around £24,000 and unsecured debt of around £7000.
His application was assessed and granted, and he was issued an Aqua credit card with a
credit limit of £600. The card had an APR of 34.9%.
Mr S spent on the card, predominantly on gambling websites.
Within 2 months of having the card he had spent almost to his credit limit. By December
2015 his balance was at around £594, against a £600 credit limit.
In December 2015, NewDay wrote to Mr S indicating that he was eligible for a credit limit
increase, to £1600. This letter gave the option to Mr S to refuse the increase.
Mr S did not refuse the increase and his limit was increased. His spending, including on
gambling sites, continued and his balance increased to near to his new credit limit. Between
March 2016 and June 2016 Mr S exceeded his credit limit twice, incurring fees. There was
little new spending on the card over this time, and Mr S made his minimum payments.
In June 2016, NewDay wrote to Mr S indicating that his card credit limit would be increased
again, to £2200. This again gave him the opportunity to reject the credit limit increase, but he
did not. His credit limit was increased and Mr Ss spending continued, with his balance
increasing to his new limit.
Around October 2016, Mr S applied for a Marbles credit card. He was approved and issued
a credit card with a £300 credit limit. This card had an APR of 39.9%.
Immediately, Mr S spent on the card, again with predominantly transactions to gambling
sites, and within two months his balance was very close to his credit limit. His balance
remained close to his credit limit, with him paying minimum payments.
In May 2017, NewDay wrote to Mr S offering to increase his credit card limit on his Marbles
card to £750. This letter gave him the option to decline the credit limit increase.
Mr S did not respond and his credit limit was increased in May 2017, to £750. Mr S resumed
spending on the card and his balance increased.
Mr S fell into difficulties meeting his minimum payments on his debt around spring 2018. Mr
S made a repayment arrangement with NewDay but this failed.
In August 2018, NewDay defaulted Mr Ss accounts and sold the debt to a third party.
Mr S has entered into a debt repayment arrangement.
Mr S complained to NewDay. He felt that the unsolicited offers to increase his debt were
irresponsible and had made his situation worse.
NewDay sent its final response in June 2020. It did not uphold his complaints and indicated
that it considered all credit increases had been correctly offered. As a goodwill gesture,
however, NewDay offered to refund to Mr S all cash advance fees which had been charged
to his credit cards, totalling £228 and £27.60 respectively.
Mr S was not satisfied with this response and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This
was that NewDay had acted reasonably and she did not recommend it do anything further.
Mr S did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
My provisional decision and the parties responses
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021. In that provisional decision I 
set out that, on the evidence available, I considered that the decisions to offer Mr S credit 
limit increases were irresponsible and that Mr Ss complaint ought to be upheld. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been given the 
opportunity to comment and provide any further evidence they wish. 
Mr S has responded and indicated that he had nothing further to add. 
NewDay has responded disagreeing with my provisional view and making further 
submissions. 
NewDay stated that at the time of Mr Ss credit limit increases, NewDay did not have access 
to full information about his level of unsecured debt as, at that time, NewDay only consulted 
one credit reference agency. 
NewDay states that Mr S did not alert NewDay that he had an issue with gambling, and that 
if he had done so NewDay would have made efforts to help him. 
NewDay also comments on the interest rates applicable to the cards and says that the high 
rates account for the fact that NewDay accepts applicants who have had difficulties before. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered NewDays comments and these do not change my provisional decision. 
I accept that NewDay may have only held partial information about Mr Ss other debt when it 
offered the increases, but I do not accept this makes the decision to offer additional debt 
reasonable. The information available to NewDay included Mr Ss spending patterns and that the majority 
of Mr Ss card use was on gambling. It also showed that his credit balance remained at or 
close to his limit for a substantial period. I consider that it should have been apparent to 
NewDay that gambling was a big factor in Mr Ss indebtedness, whether he alerted NewDay 
specifically or not. 
In any event, NewDay has described that it offers credit to consumers who otherwise would 
be denied credit due to past history. It states that it does so to enable customers to use 
credit well and rebuild their credit scores. 
The evidence available shows that the way that Mr S was using his credit was not going to 
help him improve his credit score significantly. Whilst he was usually meeting his minimum 
payments this should not be the aim of borrowing, and he was not reducing his debt by any 
measure.
Offering him the chance to increase his level of debt, when gambling was a clear factor in his 
spending, would do little to benefit Mr S. 
Consequently, I adopt my provisional decision, as supplemented by these reasons, as my 
final decision, and uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Putting things right
I accept that Mr S had some benefit from his spending, and so he should repay the capital 
balance. This should, however, be amended to remove the additional costs of borrowing that 
have been added to the balance. 
In order to put things right, NewDay must:
Refund to Mr S all interest incurred from balances above his initial credit limits (£300 
for the Marbles card and £600 for the Aqua card);
Refund all fees and charges applied to the accounts;
The above refunds should be credited to his outstanding debt balance.
If the above refunds result in a credit balance owed to Mr S, interest should be 
applied to this at the rate of 8% p/a from the date of his overpayment up until the date 
of settlement and paid to Mr S;
All defaults and negative payment information, including arrears, defaults, late 
payments and over limit markers should be removed from Mr Ss credit file; and
NewDay must to pay to Mr S £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and given in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ss complaint 
and direct NewDay Ltd to:
refund to Mr S all interest incurred from balances above his initial credit limits (£300 
for the Marbles card and £600 for the Aqua card);
refund all fees and charges applied to the accounts;The above refunds should be credited to his outstanding debt balance.
If the above refunds result in a credit balance owed to Mr S, interest should be 
applied to this at the rate of 8% p/a from the date of his overpayment up until the date 
of settlement and paid to Mr S;
Remove from Mr Ss credit file all defaults and negative payment information, 
including arrears, defaults, late payments and over limit markers which it has added; 
and
pay to Mr S £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman