DRN-2646093
The complaint
Mr J and Ms T have complained that the National House-Building Council (NHBC) have 
denied liability for the cost of resolving issues they discovered with their garages brickwork. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 12 February 2021 explaining why I was not intending to 
uphold this complaint. This is what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Mr J and Ms T purchased their house in June 2014. By October 2014 they were having 
problems with their heating and by November 2014 theyd realised their windows didnt fit 
properly; the house was cold and costly. When they raised their concerns with the builder and 
NHBC, they said the heating wasnt working properly and the windows were draughty.
NHBC issued two resolution reports on the property. The first was issued on 24 June 2016 in 
relation to incorrect lights being fitted in the kitchen. The second resolution report was issued 
on 1 February 2017 in relation to pressure dropping in the heating system. No other resolution 
reports were issued.
In December 2017, NHBC sent an engineer to the property who found that the garage wall 
had been constructed with non-insulating brickwork. Mr J and Ms T made a claim under the 
warranty, but NHBC declined to accept liability for resolving that issue. Mr J and Ms T 
complained to NHBC about this and received a final response letter in February 2019.
In that final response, NHBC said they were unable to uphold the complaint because they had 
no clear evidence that the issues with the missing wall insulation were reported to the builder 
within the builders liability period.
I issued my jurisdiction decision on 11 February 2021 in which I concluded that I only had the 
power to consider Mr J and Ms Ts complaint about NHBC declining their claim, under section 
three of the Buildmark policy.
Mr J and Ms T believe the defect should be covered by the policy. However, NHBC disagree. 
Theyve said that missing insulation isnt a part of the home thats covered during years 3 to 
10 of the Buildmark policy.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Building warranties arent designed to cover everything that might go wrong with a property. 
The Buildmark policy which sets out the terms of the agreement between NHBC and Mr J and 
Ms T, splits the cover under the warranty into sections. The first section covers claims before 
completion of the sale, the second is for any claims in the first two years following completion 
and the third section covers claims made during the following eight years. 
Mr J and Ms Ts claim falls under section three of the policy, because the issue was notified to 
NHBC in the third year of the policy. Section three says, provided the cost is more than the 
minimum claim value, NHBC will pay the full cost of putting right any damage in any of the 
listed parts of the house, which includes walls. But damage has been specifically defined 
within the policy as follows:
Damage is defined as physical damage to the home or its garage caused by a 
Defect.
Defect is defined as the breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder 
or anyone employed by or acting for the Builder.
Ive reviewed the NHBC standards that were in effect from 1 January 2014, and in particular, 
chapter 6.3 which details the standards for internal masonry walls. There is no standard 
included in that chapter (or elsewhere in the standards) that refers to a requirement for the 
bricks, used in the construction of the internal wall, to provide thermal insulation. So, the issue 
Mr J and Ms T have raised, regarding non-thermal insulating bricks being used in the 
construction of the wall between their dining area and garage, doesnt constitute a breach of a 
mandatory NHBC requirement. It therefore isnt a defect in terms of the Buildmark policy. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im currently satisfied NHBC has assessed Mr J and Ms Ts claim in 
line with the policy terms, and Im satisfied their decision to decline to cover the claim under 
section three of the Buildmark policy is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I asked both parties to let me have any final arguments or information they wanted me to 
consider, by 26 February 2021. However, neither party have provided any additional 
evidence or made any further submissions on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any additional arguments or evidence for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
So, for the reasons given in this decision and my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman