DRN-3198214
The complaint
Mr P has complained about unsuitable advice from Quadros Financial Solutions Limited to 
transfer his personal pension fund to a pension wrapper managed on a discretionary basis.  
What happened
The previous ombudsman issued a decision on this case on 21 June 2021. She summarised 
the background to the case, as set out below.
Mr P had a personal pension with LV. In 2017 Quadros advised him to transfer the fund to 
a pension wrapper managed on a discretionary basis. Mr Ps new fund didnt perform as 
well as anticipated and he moved his money back to LV.
He complained to Quadros that its advice had been unsuitable, and he hadnt received the 
service hed expected. Quadros didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It considered its advice 
was suitable because fund performance was fairly disclosed, the suitability of the chosen 
model was fair and costs were explained. Quadros also considered its advice was given 
on the basis that Mr P would invest for at least five years. It said it wasnt responsible for 
any loss Mr P considered hed suffered as a result of transferring back to LV.
Mr P was unhappy with the response from Quadros and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded 
that better service was an overriding consideration for Mr P in his decision to move his 
pension away from LV. She found that his main objective was to grow his pension fund. 
But taking account of performance and charges, the investigator concluded it was likely Mr 
P wouldve been better off remaining in his previous fund. So she didnt consider Quadros 
advice to switch was suitable.
In addition, she wasnt persuaded that the service Mr P received from Quadros was any 
better than the service hed had from his previous provider.
The investigator said Mr P should be compensated based on how his pension would 
have performed if hed remained with LV. She also said that Quadros should refund the 
initial advisor fee and cover the costs of transferring back to LV. She also said that 
Quadros should pay £300 to Mr P for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr P agreed with the investigators conclusions but Quadros didnt. It said better service 
was a critical objective for Mr P in his decision to move his pension. It also considered its 
advice to switch was suitable, even though fund value projections for the new fund were 
lower than Mr Ps LV pension, and costs were higher. It said it had made it clear to Mr P 
that these factors were offset by a more personal service which could, potentially, help to 
achieve better returns.
Quadros said it had offered six monthly reviews to Mr P but he hadnt always engaged 
with them. So it disputed that its service had fallen short of what Mr P could have 
reasonably expected. Quadros accepted there had been some breakdown in 
communication when Mr Ps original adviser left the business, but it didnt accept that this 
was indicative of its service overall.
Quadros requested that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for review.
The previous ombudsman issued her provisional decision, in which she said that she 
thought the complaint should be upheld. Her reasoning is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P had a pension review with Quadros following an introduction from a third party. He 
wasnt paying in to his LV pension at that point, and its transfer value was around £72,600. 
It was invested in the BlackRock Global Property Securities Equity Tracker fund, the Global 
Equity Tracker fund, the UK Equity Tracker fund, the UK Conventional Gilts All Stocks 
Index and the Sterling Corporate Bond All Stocks Index.
Quadros maintains that Mr P was unhappy with the service he was receiving from LV, and 
that better service was a significant consideration in his decision to move his pension.
I accept that when Mr P first spoke with Quadros adviser, he mentioned that he didnt have 
much contact with LV other than an annual phone call and a summary of how his pension 
was performing. But having listened to the call, Im not persuaded that Mr P considered he 
should have been getting much more than this, or that he was particularly unhappy with 
what LV was providing.
It seems to me that Quadros adviser emphasised the fact that Mr P was paying charges 
for an annual call and summary from LV, but not much more. The adviser pushed the point 
that Quadros offering was to keep the client engaged and that even though Mr P would 
pay higher charges he would receive regular advice from Quadros. Overall, I think 
Quadros gave Mr P the impression he would receive regular contact and tailored advice 
from Quadros in the management of his pension.
Mr Ps attitude to risk and the risk profile of his LV fund were also discussed at length in his 
initial call with Quadros. A risk questionnaire hed completed gave Mr P a risk grading of 6, 
which was identified as the higher end of medium. Following further discussion, it was 
agreed that 5 was a more accurate risk grading for Mr P.
On this basis, the Quadros adviser considered the concentration of high-risk investments in 
Mr Ps LV pension was too high. The adviser considered he shouldve been in a
wider range of funds that were more in keeping with Mr Ps attitude to risk.
The performance of Mr Ps LV fund was also discussed. The adviser said that although 
there had been some growth over the year, it was below the benchmark target for that fund. 
The implication was that Mr Ps pension could, potentially, perform better if it was more 
closely managed.
When Mr P was first in contact with Quadros he was about thirteen years away from 
retirement. The value of his LV pension was relatively modest, but he told Quadros he 
wanted to maintain his lifestyle in retirement. It seems to me that Mr P was aware he 
would need to maximise the value of his pension fund to achieve that. This is also 
reflected in the suitability report Quadros produced following its initial call with Mr P. 
Under the Aims and Objectives section of the report it said:This plan [LV] has not been reviewed for a number of years and you are keen to ensure 
that your funds are offered the greatest potential for growth moving forward, you are 
unlikely to require an income from these funds until your retirement and as such wish to 
ensure that they are invested in line with your risk profile.
It is your intention to retire at age 67 and you want to ensure that your pension funds are 
working hard for you. You have received very little ongoing advice or updates from [LV] 
and like the idea of having access to a professional adviser along with a personal client 
portal where you can access the performance of your pension funds whenever you wish.
When I take all of these points into account, overall Im satisfied that the performance of Mr 
Ps fund was the overriding factor in his decision to move his pension. I accept that 
Quadros made him aware this could, potentially, be achieved through more active 
management, but I consider this was fully prompted by Quadros, rather than as a result of 
Mr Ps dissatisfaction with the service he was getting from LV.
With that in mind, Ive considered whether Quadros advice to switch was suitable.
Charges for the new pension plan were almost double what Mr P had been paying for the 
LV plan. In a call with Mr P Quadros suggested the increase in fees could be absorbed by 
returns over the period of investment. Acknowledging the increase in fees in its suitability 
report, Quadros said:
I am confident however that the new recommended plan with [name of new fund] will 
provide additional growth (over and above) your existing plans and as such at retirement 
your funds will be greater than by leaving them with [sic] in situ (given the intervention of 
a Discretionary Fund Manager), you understand however that there is no guarantee that 
this will be the case.
As Ive already said, Im satisfied that maximising growth was Mr Ps main consideration 
when deciding to move his pension. But any investment had to be in line with his attitude 
to risk, which had been identified as the lower end of medium.
Fees in the new plan were higher than those in Mr Ps LV plan. So Quadros shouldve 
considered whether potential performance in the new plan would be enough to absorb 
those fees, keeping in mind the medium risk nature of the fund. From what Ive seen, Im 
not persuaded that Quadros did that. It seems unlikely to me that the fund couldve 
provided the level of growth Mr P needed to absorb the additional fees and increase the 
value of his fund.
Ive also considered whether the mix of investments in Mr Ps LV fund meant it was too 
high risk. On balance, Im not persuaded that it was. Roughly 60% of the fund was 
invested in equities, with the balance made up of lower risk investments. Given Mr Ps time 
until retirement, his investment objectives and attitude to risk, I dont consider the mix of 
investments in the LV fund was unsuitable for him.
This means Im not persuaded Quadros advice to change pension funds was suitable. 
From what Ive seen, there doesnt seem to have been any real value to Mr P in moving his 
fund. Given the length of time until retirement, the mix of investments and Mr Ps attitude to 
risk, Im satisfied that his investment objectives couldve been achieved through his existing 
fund. As such, I think that if Mr P had been properly advised he wouldve remained with LV.
I can see there is some dispute about the extent to which Quadros advised Mr P once 
hed invested in the new pension plan. Quadros has provided some evidence to show 
that six monthly reviews were carried out. But as Ive already said, I think Mr P was given the impression he would get a much more tailored service from Quadros, using input from 
the discretionary fund manager. In its suitability report Quadros said:
You are keen to ensure that all of your funds are invested to suit your current risk profile 
but also that they are reviewed and monitored on a regular basis and that you have an 
adviser on call who can provide you with updates and guidance with your funds.
From what Ive seen and been told, Im not persuaded the service Mr P received was in 
line with what was described when he was first in contact with Quadros.
I accept that Quadros advised Mr P on the basis that his pension investment would be 
maintained for at least five years. But as Im not persuaded that Quadros advice was 
suitable, I dont consider it was unreasonable for Mr P to move his pension fund back to 
LV.
So overall, Im satisfied that Quadros should compensate Mr P in line with my 
recommendations below. The redress broadly reflects what was said by the investigator, 
but will automatically take account of the adviser fee refund and the cost of transferring 
back to LV.
Putting things right
-Quadros should carry out a loss assessment to see what Mr Ps pension value 
would have been at the date of my final decision if hed stayed with LV.
-If there is a loss, compared with the actual value of his portfolio on the same date, 
Quadros should pay into Mr P's pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Quadros shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
-If Quadros is unable to pay the compensation into Mr P's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
-The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ps actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
- For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr P 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Quadros should also pay Mr P £300 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Mr P accepted the previous ombudsmans findings, but wished to also add the following:
Quadros approached him by saying that it was undertaking a government pension 
check as to how his pension was performing.
He was told that he would see growth of 6% pa if he switched his pension and that 
he shouldnt worry about the 3.5% cost to do so, or the annual fees, as this would be 
made back within the first year.When the pension fund was declining in value, he tried to contact his adviser, but 
was always told that there was some reason as to why they couldnt be contacted.
Although he believed he was paying more for Quadros to look after his pension and 
keep him updated, he received just one phone call in three years. And even then, he 
was told not to worry about his declining pension pot.
In response to the provisional decision, Quadros requested information relating to the 
transaction history on his pension, along with its valuation.
Some of this information was provided, but the ombudsman asked the investigator to confirm 
to Quadros that it didnt need this to be able to respond to the findings on the merits  the 
information it had requested seemed to relate to the redress calculation.
Quadros said that its professional indemnity insurer required the information before a 
response to the provisional decision could be issued.
The required information was submitted to Quadros, which then issued an offer to Mr P, as 
follows.
It had calculated the notional value of Mr Ps pension fund with LV, had he not originally 
transferred, as at the date he transferred back to LV on 27 April 2020. It had factored in the 
ongoing fee which would have been applied by LV (0.25%) and the existing adviser fee 
(0.5% pa). Those fees were applied on the original value transferred in October 2017, rather 
than on any subsequent growth. It had compared that with the actual value of the fund which 
was transferred back to LV to determine whether there had been any loss.
It felt that this was a fair resolution, given that it didnt think it should be accountable for any 
investment advice given to Mr P after he transferred away from Quadros. It had calculated 
the compensation, including the £300 for trouble and upset, to be £8,893.72. 
This offer was put to Mr P, but he asked that, before deciding whether to accept the offer, 
the previous ombudsman consider it and whether this fairly reflected the loss he had 
incurred.  
Due to unforeseen circumstances, the complaint was then referred to me to consider. I took 
into account the previous ombudsmans findings and the submissions from both parties, and 
was of the view that the complaint should be upheld for similar reasons. I issued my own 
provisional findings as set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the previous ombudsmans findings and for the same reasons. 
I dont think there was a sufficiently compelling rationale for Mr P to switch his existing 
pension arrangements with LV, and even if the additional costs could be justified, I dont 
think Mr P has received the service he was expecting, or to which he should have been 
entitled.
Ive carefully considered Quadros offer of compensation, and there are aspects of it which I 
think are fair and reasonable, and achieve the objective set out by the previous ombudsman. 
And it applying the fees which would have been applied to Mr Ps original pension fund to 
just the initial valuation as at October 2017 may work to Mr Ps advantage.
But I dont think the redress should be capped at 27 April 2020, with no account taken of what would have happened thereafter.
If there was a loss as at 27 April 2020, the effect of this will have carried through in some 
form to date, irrespective of any investment decisions made by Mr Ps subsequent adviser. 
The simplest way of factoring this in would be to establish the percentage loss, as at 27 April 
2020, and apply this to the current value, as at the date of any subsequent final decision, of 
Mr Ps pension funds.
Judging by Quadros own calculation, is seems that the loss percentage would have 
amounted to 12%. 
If Mr Ps pension funds have performed poorly due to the investment recommendations of 
his subsequent adviser, then this will reduce redress accordingly. And so Quadros will not be 
bearing any responsibility for that investment advice.
If there is a loss, Quadros should pay into Mr P's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. Quadros shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quadros is unable to pay the compensation into Mr P's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided 
a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ps actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, 
the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr P would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation. For the purposes of the calculation, Ive assumed that Mr P will be a basic 
rate tax payer.
If Mr P has taken any withdrawals from his pension plan since 27 April 2020, these should 
also be uplifted by the same loss percentage, and the difference paid to Mr P with the 
addition of 8% simple interest from the date that they would have been paid to him to the 
date of settlement.
I think the £300 proposed by the previous ombudsman in respect of trouble and upset 
caused is also about right. Mr P has talked about witnessing his pension funds declining in 
value, having paid additional fees to achieve the opposite  and I think this will have caused 
him some not inconsiderable worry over his financial security in retirement. 
In response, Mr P submitted no further comments on my findings. Quadros queried the 
format of the redress, which has subsequently been clarified. It has now confirmed it accepts 
my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no objections have been raised in respect of my provisional findings, they remain the 
same, and for the reasons previously given.  Putting things right
Quadros Financial Solutions Limited should undertake the redress calculation as set out in 
the provisional decision, and pay any redress due accordingly. As also set out in the 
provisional decision, it should pay to Mr P the additional sum of £300 in respect of the worry 
the matter is likely to have caused him.
Mr P, for his part, will either need to provide the information required by Quadros to 
undertake the necessary calculation, or provide authority for it to seek the information from 
the relevant third parties. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Quadros Financial Solutions 
Limited to calculate and pay redress due as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman