DRN-3873203
Complaint
Mr H has complained about loans Zopa Bank Limited (trading as Zopa) provided to him. 
He says the loans were unaffordable and so should never have been provided to him in the 
first place.
Background
Zopa initially provided Mr H with a first loan for £5,000.00 in September 2021. This loan had 
an APR of 17.4% and a term of 48 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£6,821.10, including interest, fees and charges of £1,821.10, was due to be repaid in 48 
monthly instalments of just over £140. 
Zopa then provided Mr H with a second loan for £8,000.00 in March 2022. This loan had an 
APR of 21.5% and a term of 48 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£11,617.19, including interest, fees and charges of £3,617.19, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of just over £240. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint and he thought Zopa ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr H with either of his loans. So he thought Mr Hs 
complaint should be upheld. 
Zopa agreed with the outcome on loan 2 but disagreed with what the investigator said on 
loan 1. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
As the parties appear to be in agreement on the outcome reached for loan 2, this decision 
on only looking at whether Zopa should have provided Mr H with loan 1.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Zopa needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is Zopa 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr H could afford 
to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Zopa has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks before loan 1 
was provided. The results of which showed that Mr H had taken a number of loans over a 
relatively short period of time. And that the period he was being indebted for was 
lengthening. I dont think that this in itself means that Zopa shouldnt have provided loan 1. 
But I do think that this should have prompted Zopa into carrying out further enquiries into   
Mr Hs circumstances to get to the bottom of this pattern of lending. 
I say this while particularly mindful that Zopas own records appear to suggest that Mr H had 
a total debt to income ratio of almost 68%, which in itself ought to have been concerning. So 
overall I think that what Zopas checks showed warranted further enquiries into Mr Hs 
circumstances and as these further checks werent carried out Zopas checks before 
providing loan 1 werent reasonable and proportionate. 
Mr H has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr H has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Zopa mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Zopa showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on what this information says as an indication of what Mr Hs financial circumstances were 
more likely than not to have been at the time. 
I also think its important for me to set out that Zopa was required to establish whether Mr H 
could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The information provided 
shows that Mr Hs debt burden was even higher that Zopa thought as there was at least one 
other loan that Mr H was required to make payments to, which didnt show on the credit 
search carried out. 
Bearing in mind everything, Im satisfied that the information provided demonstrates that    
Mr Hs existing financial position meant that he was unlikely to be able to afford the 
payments to loan 1, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And Im satisfied that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not have shown Zopa that it 
shouldnt have provided loan 1 as well as loan 2 to Mr H. As Zopa provided Mr H with loan 1, 
notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr H has ended up paying (and is being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on a 
loan he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr H lost out because of 
what Zopa did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Zopa needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having thought about everything, Zopa should put things right for Mr H by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 1 (as well as loan 2 as it has 
already agreed to do) from the outset. The payments Mr H made should be deducted 
from the new starting balance  the £5,000.00 originally lent for loan one (and 
£8,000.00 lent for loan 2). If once all adjustments have been made this shows that  Mr H has made overpayments, these overpayments should be refunded to Mr H 
together with interest at 8% simple a year from the date they were made by Mr H to 
the date of settlement
if once all adjustments have been made this shows that Mr H still has an outstanding 
amount (or amounts) to repay, Zopa should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan. Mr H is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Zopa 
to reach a suitable agreement for this.
if no outstanding balance (or balances) remains after all adjustments have been 
made then Zopa should remove any adverse information it recorded on Mr Hs credit 
file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Zopa Bank Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman