DRN-3184722
The complaint
Ms W complains that Dennehy Weller & Co. Limited didnt make it clear to her what charges 
she would have to pay in relation to her personal pension when she was advised to keep her 
pension in cash funds.
What happened
Ms W initially approached Dennehy Weller in 2011 for advice on her pension. In July 2011, 
the adviser at Dennehy Weller recommended that a number of fund switches be made to 
Ms Ws pension in view of her cautious attitude to risk. Some more fund changes were 
recommended and then in November 2013, on Dennehy Wellers recommendation, she 
moved her pension to 100% cash. She wasnt sure of her employment position at that time 
and the advice was to move her pension to cash in order to avoid market fluctuations.
In April 2014 Ms W was advised to keep her pension fund in cash. Dennehy Weller said this 
meant if the markets fell before Ms W retired, her pension would be protected, but Ms W 
said she didnt want to keep 100% of her pension in cash  she was prepared to take some 
risk in return for some growth. So Dennehy Weller recommended some low-risk funds. The 
recommendation letter said:
 it is my recommendation that you hold your accumulated pension fund in the cash 
deposit account for capital security  this means that if markets fall significantly before you 
retire, the value of your pension fund will be largely protected
However, you have confirmed to me that contrary to my advice, you do not wish to keep your
pension fund 100% in cash. You are prepared to accept some investment risk in return for
the prospect of ongoing growth and have requested appropriate fund recommendation.
Dennehy Weller sent a further letter in May 2014 confirming her instruction to switch 30% of 
the pension into some lower risk funds. 
In 4 February 2020 Ms W received from the pension provider a breakdown of charges since 
2014. This said the annual management charges from August 2014 to February 2020 
amounted to a total of around £11,000.
Ms W was unhappy about the amount of charges and complained to Dennehy Weller. She 
said her adviser hadnt told her of the continuing charges, which were applied to the cash 
funds; she had understood charges only applied to funds that were invested. She said this 
has resulted in a considerable financial loss to her  since the cash funds did not increase in 
value, having charges deducted from them meant she was worse off.
Dennehy Weller didnt think it was at fault, saying it had given appropriate advice and acted 
in Ms Ws best interests at all times. So Ms W brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Ms W hadnt been given 
clear information about charges and would have acted differently if she had been given the 
right information in 2014; she thought Ms W would have ensured a larger proportion of her 
pension was invested. She asked Dennehy Weller to calculate what the value of her pension 
would have been, if she had invested her funds in low risk investments rather than keeping 
them in cash.
The investigator also recommended that Dennehy Weller pay Ms W £200 to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Dennehy Weller didnt agree and has requested an ombudsmans decision. It says:
Ms W would have been given an illustration and other documents at the outset 
showing all costs and charges.
From 2018 advisers were required to disclose fund charges in relation to 
investments. That didnt apply to pensions but many providers started to include 
information, which was why Ms Ws pension statements started to include 
information about charges then.
Ms W had said she wanted some growth in her pension but had also stressed the 
need for security. She changed her position several times and this made it difficult for 
the adviser, who did his best to help her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advisers have a number of duties to their customers, including to pay due regard to their 
interests and treat them fairly, and to provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading. 
As Ms Ws adviser Id expect Dennehy Weller to provide information to he about the charges 
she would have to pay and how these would affect the value of her pension, and 
recommend something that was suitable for her. 
Although Dennehy Weller did provide information about its charges for advice, it didnt 
explain to Ms W what charges would be applied in relation to the pension. The annual 
statements she received from the pension didnt include information about charges until 
2017 and even then, didnt explain that the charges applied to the whole of the pension  
including the cash fund. Ms W thought charges only applied to the investments.
I agree Ms W was cautious about her pension and didnt want to be exposed to high risk. But 
she made it clear that she wanted some growth and didnt agree to leave it all in cash  she  
moved 30% into investments (indeed, she said she would have preferred to move 50% into 
investments). So although she didnt want too much risk, she was prepared to take some 
risk to gain some growth. I agree with our investigator that, if shed been aware of the 
charges on the cash fund, she would have moved more of her pension into investments. 
Notes on Dennehy Wellers system confirm this. For example  
does not want to hold cash What are the low risk alternatives manage risk and
downside, but she wants there to be potential for modest growth
And:
She is also certain she cannot keep the pension fund in cash although she understands the
security provided She understands that seeking growth means taking risk
When advising Ms W whether to keep all her funds or invest the funds, Dennehy Weller 
should have considered the impact of charges and how these would affect the value of her 
pension. I appreciate that when the funds were moved to cash in November 2013, it was thought Ms W might need to access her pension soon after, so it may have been prudent to 
move her investments to cash for a short time to avoid any loss. But she didnt need to take 
her pension then. And Ms W made it clear she wanted security and some growth. As she 
says, the charges applied to the cash fund meant she was effectively losing money. The 
point of moving funds into cash was to protect her from loss. Its difficult to see how leaving 
funds in cash for a long period was suitable or in her best interests if it meant she lost 
money.
Taking into account all the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that if Ms W had been given 
clear information, she would have moved more of her pension into investments. If she had 
invested in low risk funds, she would have been charged annual management fees, as all 
pension providers do. But its likely there would have been some growth. I agree with our 
investigator that Dennehy Weller should calculate the growth Ms Ws pension would have 
seen if shed invested her funds as opposed to keeping them in cash.
I also agree that a payment should be made to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Ms W. She would have been upset to find out that she was being charged on the 
funds held in cash, when she hadnt been aware of this.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms W as close as possible 
to the position she would probably be in if she had been advised of fund charges within her 
pension. I think she would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
she would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Ms W's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
To compensate Ms W fairly Dennehy Weller should:
Compare the performance of Ms W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Dennehy Weller should add interest set out below. 
If there is a loss, Dennehy Weller should pay into Ms W's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. 
If Dennehy Weller is unable to pay the total amount into Ms W's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount directly to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Ms W wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume Ms W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Ms W would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%..
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Dennehy Weller deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Ms W how much has been taken off. Dennehy Weller should 
give Ms W a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms W asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Aegon 
Personal 
PensionStill exists For half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Dennehy 
Weller should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms W wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Ms W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Ms W into that position. It does not mean 
that Ms W would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Ms W could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
In addition, Dennehy Weller should pay Ms W £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Dennehy Weller & Co. Limited to pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Dennehy Weller & Co. Limited should provide details of its calculation to Ms W in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman