DRN-4423633
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd trading as PRIMIS 
Mortgage Network (PRIMIS) mis-sold their policies to them.
All references to PRIMIS include any agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S sought advice from PRIMIS in 2020 in relation to their financial protection 
needs. They wanted to review their current protection and take out additional protection for 
new borrowing. 
PRIMIS made a recommendation which Mr and Mrs S accepted. But when Mr S provided 
additional information, the cost of the new protection increased and was no longer 
affordable. So amended cover was agreed, with increased premiums and reduced cover. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to PRIMIS after another review by a different adviser. They 
complained that the policies which were sold in 2020 were more expensive and provided 
less cover than their original protection. 
PRIMIS looked into the complaint and accepted that Mr and Mrs S original life cover didnt 
need replacing. It apologised and paid the difference between the cost of the cover taken in 
2020 and the original cover, plus interest. It said the rest of Mr and Mrs S protection needs 
were correctly assessed and suitable advice was given for their critical illness cover and 
cover for their new borrowing. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and found that PRIMIS had remedied its mistake by 
refunding the difference in premiums. But he also said PRIMIS should pay £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S. 
PRIMIS disagreed to paying compensation for distress and inconvenience and in summary, 
it said it had provided an appropriate remedy by refunding the difference in premium plus 
interest. It referred to other decisions published on our website. 
Mr and Mrs S said they would be paying increased premiums on an ongoing basis as a 
result of PRIMIS error. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules say a seller should ensure its advice is suitable, in an advised 
sale.
PRIMIS accepts the life cover was mis-sold and has remedied this by providing a 
refund of the difference between the cost of the policy Mr and Mrs S had originally 
and the cost of the new policy, up to the point it was cancelled, plus interest. I am 
satisfied this is a suitable and appropriate remedy in the circumstances. PRIMIS has 
put Mr and Mrs S in the same position they were in with their original cover, in 
relation to the cost of it.
For the rest of the cover, I agree that it was suitable based on what Mr and Mrs S told 
their adviser. They wanted individual (a policy each) increased protection for critical 
illness cover and cover for their new borrowing. The fact find and illustration set out 
what was discussed, and I am satisfied that PRIMIS acted on the information 
provided by Mr and Mrs S. Mr S later provided additional information once the 
policies had been put in place which increased the premiums for critical illness cover. 
This isnt something I can hold PRIMIS responsible for so I dont think it provided 
unsuitable advice in relation to the remainder of the policies. 
Mr and Mrs S say PRIMIS should have asked for copies of their existing policies 
before giving advice. I have seen that PRIMIS did ask Mr and Mrs S about their 
existing protection but they couldnt find their documents. So the adviser acted on the 
information available, which isnt unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs S say they will be paying increased premiums on an ongoing basis. But 
Mr and Mrs S have increased their level of borrowing and have replaced their policies 
for life cover again. I dont think PRIMIS can be held responsible for the ongoing 
increased premiums as these relate to the new borrowing. Its likely that their 
premiums were always going to increase as a result of increased borrowing. So I 
dont think PRIMIS needs to do anything further in relation to the premiums. 
Our investigator recommended £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S. PRIMIS suggests that compensation for non-
financial loss shouldnt be paid in addition to a remedy for a financial loss and has 
provided case references for other cases at the Financial Ombudsman Service. I 
should say that each case is decided on its own facts and we dont set precedents. 
Compensation for distress and inconvenience is assessed in each individual case, as 
set out in detail on our website. It is awarded to recognise the impact on the specific 
individuals involved. This award may be different in cases even where the 
circumstances are similar. 
In this case, I am satisfied that the impact of the poor advice in relation to the life 
cover did cause some distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs S as they would 
have felt shocked and disappointed when they realised they had been paying more 
for the same cover they had previously, at a lower cost. I dont think the impact of 
finding out this information was long lasting and PRIMIS did remedy the problem 
quickly. That is why I think a payment of £150 compensation is appropriate in the 
circumstances of this case.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Advance Mortgage 
Funding Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network to pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman