DRN-2964152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the way that their home insurance claim for water damage
was handled by U K Insurance Limited (UKI).  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H reported a claim to UKI in June 2019. They had been away over the weekend.
When they came back, water was pouring through the ceiling from the shower unit. They
contacted Home Emergency and the leak was stopped, but the electrics were partly
disabled. UKI sent out its loss adjuster for a site visit. Mr and Mrs H advised that they both
had disabilities which affected their mobility and in the case of Mrs H, her sight.
UKI organised drying out, which was completed within two weeks. It offered a cash
settlement to Mr and Mrs H, but they felt it best that UKI arrange the repairs. Contractors
then started work on the property. Mr H had to point out to UKI the difficulty caused to him by
not having a downstairs bathroom, and also said they had fallen over many times.
Mr and Mrs H were very unhappy with the quality of the repairs, and UKI carried out a site
visit in late October 2019. It agreed that the repairs were of poor quality and that the
contractors would be changed. Arrangements were made for the works to continue and the
poor repairs to be remedied. It agreed that the restoring of the downstairs toilet would be a
priority. Mr H also mentioned that a set of drawers which had been placed in his bedroom
needed to be moved as he was struggling. In January 2020 there was an issue with the
kitchen plinths and kickboards in that the new ones wouldnt be a good enough match with
the rest of the kitchen. That issue was resolved by the contractors agreeing to paint the
units.
Because of the lockdown which started in March 2020, the completion of the work had to be
postponed, although that doesnt form part of this decision.
Mr and Mrs Hs complaints to UKI were dealt with in three separate letters sent in January,
February and March 2020. The first dealt with the poor quality of the repairs and delays in
carrying out the work, for which compensation of £500 was paid. The second letter dealt with
the delay over the ordering of the kitchen plinths and a further £100 was paid. The last letter
dealt with the failure to note that Mr and Mrs H were vulnerable customers and a delay in
refunding electricity costs, for which a further £350 compensation was paid. So, a total of
£950. I understand that Mr and Mrs H have accepted the payments without prejudice to their
right to have their complaints considered by this service.
On referral to this service our investigator said that UKI had paid adequate compensation to
address the problems Mr and Mrs H had faced. She pointed out that we could only look at
the matter up until the date of the final response letter of 19 March 2020.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy and didnt think that the compensation adequately reflected
what they had faced. They were also disappointed that we couldnt go beyond the March
2020 date and that the investigator had failed to offer any recommendations for improvement
in processes, decisionmaking, training etc to ensure that the risk of repeats is avoided.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought UKI should pay a further £750 
compensation. I further said that UKI should pay Mr and Mrs H a disturbance allowance for 
the period that they were without a proper kitchen and/or toilet facilities.
Mr H responded to the decision and I summarise his response as follows:
He would like me to refer the matter to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
He would like all matters that happened post March 2020 to be taken into account.
He still feels that the compensation award is too low. He feels that it should be in our 
severe category (£2,000  £5,000) and that I should advise him of the sorts of cases 
that fall into that category.
They were without a kitchen up until 19 March 2020 (and beyond) so the disturbance 
allowance should be paid up to at least that date.
UKI has advised our investigator that it accepts my provisional decision.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
I should set out what my position is here. This service offers an alternative dispute 
resolution service. Our function is to try to resolve informally complaints between businesses 
and customers. This means that we will take a holistic approach, we dont forensically 
examine each and every detail of the complaints. And I wont go through every piece of 
evidence in this decision, although I can assure Mr and Mrs H Ive considered it. More 
importantly my decision concerns this particular complaint, what compensation should be 
paid and any other steps to resolve this particular complaint. Whilst other parts of this 
service may liaise with businesses and the Financial Conduct Authority over any recurring 
issues its not part of my function to make any recommendations as to how UKI should 
change its processes. Its to be hoped that any problems that arose in this case will be taken 
on board.
As regards the date the complaints will be considered up to, this is unfortunately part of the
rules which govern our complaint handling. These say that any complaint must first be put to
the business and it has up to eight weeks to answer or resolve it. Clearly any matters which
arose after March 2020, though they may be a continuation of some issues, havent been
put to UKI and it has confirmed it hasnt had any complaints put to it after March 2020. So
this decision must, because of our rules deal only with matters up until 19 March 2020. If
Mr and Mrs H have further issues beyond that date they must first put them to UKI.
delay and poor repairs
The proposed completion date for the work was September 2019. By 14 October a lot of the
work remained outstanding, and the repairs were of poor quality. In particular these were the
quality of the wallpapering completed in the downstairs toilet, damage caused to the sink
during removal, the quality of the worktops and the hob didnt fit back. UKI agreed with thisand appointed new contractors which inevitably held up the work for longer. Those
contractors had to draw up a new schedule of work which took longer to be approved than
should have been necessary. This took the work well past Christmas 2019. By the time work
had to be put on hold in March 2020 a significant amount remained. So in respect of this
complaint, the work was delayed by more than five months. As I shall set out below, for a
significant amount of this time Mr and Mrs H were without a working kitchen and downstairs
bathroom.
With the new contractors, further issues arose over the plinths and their matching. There
were delays in getting samples to a restoration company who then lost them.
Further there was a lack of communication between UKI, the loss adjusters and the
contractors. Often the loss adjusters information was out of date, which I think contributed to
the delays and probably, due to a lack of oversight, the poor workmanship.
failing to take account of Mr and Mrs Hs disabilities
It was clearly noted by UKI when the claim was first notified to it that Mr H had a disability
restricting his mobility, and Mrs H concerning her sight. But a warning note wasnt put on the
file until March 2020. Having said that I think its the issues surrounding what should have
been done when first vising the property that are of concern.
For Mr H the lack of the downstairs bathroom caused him serious difficulties because of the
problems in getting upstairs on time. Also the contents of the rooms being repaired being
stored elsewhere caused them difficulties. And the bath was unavailable to use for months
that he said contributed to further deterioration of his muscle movement. Mr H also said they
had numerous falls, bumps and bruises whilst navigating around the house, including on one
occasion dislocating his shoulder.
What stood out for me is that at no stage can I see that Mr and Mrs H were offered
alternative accommodation (AA) for the duration of the repairs. This was notwithstanding that
for a significant length of time the kitchen and downstairs bathroom were out of action. It
would be normal to offer AA when the home is uninhabitable due to a lack of cooking and/or
washing facilities, and particularly In Mr Hs case I dont think it was suitable for him to stay
there during the repairs. The only reference I can see in UKIs files is an internal note which
says, If insured had had AA as both Kitchen and bathrooms out of action for some time we
would be looking at over £20,000.00 for Short term let and £30,000.00 for a serviced
apartment. It may have been difficult finding suitable accommodation, but it doesnt appear
to have been considered.
On occasions if the consumer decides they dont want to move out (and Ive seen no
indication one way or the other in this case) then it might be appropriate to offer to install
temporary facilities e.g. mobile kitchen, temporary toilet. I dont know if that would have
been a practical option. Failing anything then to compensate for the expense of not being
able to cook and/or wash at home, it would be standard practice to pay a disturbance
allowance at the rate of £10 per person per day for the time consumers are without those
facilities. I think UKI should pay such an allowance in this case from 10 July 2019 until
cooking and the downstairs bathroom were restored or 19 March 2020, whichever is the
sooner. I would invite the parties by way of response to this decision, to advise me as to the
appropriate dates here.
Mr H says the failure to account for their disabilities is discrimination under the Equality Act
2010. A finding of discrimination is something only a court can make, although I can take into
consideration what sort of finding a court might have made. I cant say a court would have
made such a finding, in my view. Although Mr and Mrs H should in my view have beenoffered AA, the failure to do so wasnt because of their disability e.g. because it was too
difficult. And I cant see that UKI or its loss adjusters had any sort of policy in place not to
offer AA in these sorts of circumstances.
But I dont think that leaving Mr and Mrs H to cope under these circumstances was either fair
or reasonable. And taking that into account and the fact that the delays meant they had to
put up with the situation for much longer than they should have, I dont think the
compensation awarded so far is sufficient. Taking into account the time period and the
amount of distress and inconvenience caused I think a figure of £1,700 should be paid. This
means that UKI should pay a further £750.
First of all, I wont be referring this matter to the FCA, its not part of our process to refer 
individual cases to it. Theres nothing stopping Mr and Mrs H from doing so.
With regard to considering matters post March 2020, I can see the force of Mr Hs argument, 
and, on occasion, we might consider incorporating further complaints into a complaint thats 
already been referred to us. But that would only be where any new complaints have been 
through the businesss complaints procedure and it has either issued a final response letter 
or refused or failed to do so.. He was advised by our investigator that this would need to 
happen in January 2021 (and at that time the claim was still ongoing). I cant see that Mr H 
has addressed a formal complaint to UKI about matters post March 2020 or that Mr Hs 
further complaints have been through UKIs complaints procedure. He has referred to some 
emails he sent to UKI requiring explanations. I havent seen UKIs responses but if he was 
dissatisfied with them he could have taken it up with UKI at the time. And UKI may be able to 
address those issues to Mr and Mrs Hs satisfaction. Any further complaints referred to us 
would need a further investigation to take place (we only have UKIs papers up until March 
2020). To be fair to users of our service we cant keep complaints open indefinitely. 
Here I assessed that the case had reached a natural break at the start of lockdown so I think 
whatever further complaints Mr and Mrs H may have can be dealt with separately. So I will 
still only consider matters up until 19 March 2020.
With regard to the compensation, regrettably I cant go into what other awards we may have 
made (although ombudsmens final decisions are available on our website). I have taken 
account of the length of time the matter went on and of the effect on Mr and Mrs H, and I do 
think a substantial award is appropriate. I am also requiring UKI to pay a disturbance 
allowance, which though not an award for distress and inconvenience, compensates them 
for the period they had to live in the home without basic facilities. I will award that up until 
19 March 2020 as Mr and Mrs H tell me they were still without a kitchen up until then.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and to require U K Insurance Limited to:
pay to Mr and Mrs H a disturbance allowance at the rate of £10 per person per day from 
10 June 2019 until 19 March 2020.
pay a further £750 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman