DRN-4365412
The complaint
The partners of a business I will refer to as M, complain about the settlement of their 
business interruption insurance claim, made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, by 
Society of Lloyds.
Specifically, they complain about the settlement offer including a deduction for money 
received via the Self-Employment Income Support Scheme (SEISS).
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of the main events. Additionally, 
references to Lloyds includes Society of Lloyds, the relevant underwriters, and their agents. 
For the sake of simplicity, I have largely just referred to M and Lloyds.
M is a partnership and operates as a holiday accommodation business and held a 
commercial insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds. The policy provided a number of areas 
of cover, including business interruption. Following the government-imposed restrictions, 
introduced in March 2020 to limit the spread of COVID-19, M claimed for its losses.
Ultimately, Lloyds agreed to meet the claim and offered a sum in settlement. However, M 
was unhappy with the offer. This complaint is limited to considering whether it was fair and 
reasonable for Lloyds to deduct SEISS payments at least one of Ms partners had received. 
Initially, the complaint also included that Lloyds had deducted a saving in relation to 
business rates relief, but Lloyds has confirmed that no deduction is being made in relation to 
this.
Lloyds did not change its stance on the SEISS deduction and M referred its complaint to the 
Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator didnt think Lloyds should have deducted the SEISS 
payments. But as Lloyds disagreed the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 August 2023. In that provisional decision I set out some 
of the background to the SEISS, the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (furlough) and 
some other COVID-19 related business support grants. I explained that there were some 
similarities and some differences between these types of funding. And that insurers had 
generally agreed not to deduct the other business support grants from claim settlements. 
But that they considered SEISS and furlough should be treated differently. 
I also set out that the issue of furlough payments had been considered by the Courts, 
including in Stonegate Pub Company v MS Amlin and Others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) 
("Stonegate"). And that whilst M did not receive any furlough payments, the Courts 
reasoning in this judgment was useful in considering SEISS. 
I explained that the judge had said furlough payments acted to reduce a cost or expense the 
claimant would otherwise have had to pay, so they were in effect a saving. And that the 
judge had come to this conclusion thinking about both the contractual position and the 
principle of indemnity and associated doctrine of subrogation, which effectively means that a 
claimant is only able to recover their losses and is not able to put themselves back in a 
better position that they otherwise would be. And where the circumstances mean the loss 
the claimant has suffered has been reduced  such as because of a payment made by a 
third party  the insurer may be entitled to benefit from this reduction in loss.
I set out that as Ms partner had used the money received via SEISS to cover household 
costs, this in effect reduced the expenses the business would otherwise have incurred, in 
that the partner did not need to draw this money from M. So, I considered this money could 
be treated as a saving, and hence deducted from the claim settlement. 
I also set out that even if all or some of the money had been used for a different purpose, I 
considered this was money that had reduced the overall losses M sustained as a result of 
the pandemic. And that it in those circumstances it would be fair and reasonable to treat this 
as income M had received.
I also set out that, given the lack of any statement to such an effect by the Government, I 
didnt think the payor (the Government) intended to benefit the insured (M) only, to the 
exclusion of the insurer (Lloyds). 
So, ultimately, I considered Lloyds was entitled to deduct the SEISS payment received from 
the claim settlement. And said that I was minded not to uphold this complaint.
M responded to my provisional decision making some detailed comments. These included 
that Lloyds had overstated the amount claimed under the scheme. M also disagreed that the 
SEISS payment should be deducted, and stressed that this had been paid directly to the 
partner rather than into the business accounts. M also queried how the Stonegate reasoning 
could be applied to this complaint when the judgment did not include any comment on 
SEISS.
Lloyds did not make any direct response to the provisional decision. However, when 
provided with some further information supplied by M, Lloyds confirmed it would only be 
deducting the sum actually received by Ms partner from the settlement. Lloyds had, in the 
absence of specific information, estimated this as £10,000. The actual sum received, 
relevant to the indemnity period, was £1,218. 
Lloyds had indicated that £34 relevant to the second SEISS grant should be included in this, 
but I have confirmed that this would only be payable to businesses that were adversely 
affected after 14 July 2020  after the end of the indemnity period. So, this sum should not 
be included. I also set out that, whilst Lloyds would not have been able to accurately 
calculate the size of the SEISS payment Ms partner received without the information M has 
only recently provided, this could only have ever been a maximum of £7,500. And so, I did 
not think including a deduction of £10,000 in the initial calculation was fair and reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will just highlight that M has more than one complaint with the Financial Ombudsman about 
the handling of its claim by Lloyds. The current complaint is limited to considering the SEISS 
element of the claim. So, I am only going to refer to this issue. 
As I say, M has made some detailed comments in response to my provisional decision on 
this complaint. Whilst I have considered all of these, I am not going to address each point. 
I note M has raised some concerns about the application of the Stonegate judgment to this complaint. It is true that the judge in this case did not make any comments around SEISS 
payments. As set out in my provisional decision, this was because the circumstances of that 
case did not involve any payment through this scheme. The lack of any specific comment on 
SEISS does not however mean that the general principles and reasoning set out in the 
judgment are not applicable to other situations. I consider that the judges reasoning around 
the principle of indemnity and associated doctrine of subrogation are something that does 
apply to Ms complaint. 
The judges comments at paragraph 284 apply generally to forms of payment made by a 
third party that have reduced the loss to the claimant. The judge said there were three key 
matters to consider in terms of a payment received from a third party:
"(1) If a third party has made a payment which has eliminated or reduced the loss to 
the insured against which it had insurance, then, subject to the exception below, the 
insurers are entitled to the benefit of that payment, either in reducing any payment 
that they might have to make under the policy or, if they have already paid, by 
claiming the amount from the insured.
(2) This will not be the case, however, if it can be established that the third party. In 
making the payment, intended to benefit only the insured to the exclusion of the 
insurers ...
(3) In assessing the intentions of the third party payor, it does not matter whether that 
payor gave any thought to the position of insurers. A payment can still diminish the 
loss even if no such thought is given."
These principles are not specific to furlough. And I consider that ought to be applied to 
SEISS. This is what I have done and what has led me to provisionally conclude it is fair and 
reasonable for Lloyds to deduct the SEISS payment Ms partner received in relation to the 
first national lockdown from the claim settlement. 
I do appreciate that the SEISS payment would have been made directly to Ms partner. All 
SEISS payments were made to individuals. However, the question is whether this payment 
reduced the loss M experienced. Even though the payment was not made to M, as a result 
of the SEISS M did not have to make any payment to the partner for her to cover her 
household expenses. Normally the partner would draw an amount from Ms profits to cover 
these costs, but this was not required as a result of the SEISS payment. Thereby this 
payment reduced the overall loss M experienced. 
Additionally, there is also limited legal separation between a partner and the partnership. So, 
ultimately, I consider it is fair and reasonable for Lloyds to deduct the SEISS payment from 
Ms claim settlement.
In the circumstances of this particular complaint, I consider this SEISS payment can be 
considered a saving of a normal business expense that has been reduced as a result of 
circumstances connected with the insured peril. And so it is fair and reasonable for Lloyds to 
deduct this from the claim settlement.
However, I do consider that the deduction should reflect the sum actually received relevant 
to the indemnity period. And, whilst I appreciate that M may not have provided the actual 
figures until recently, there does not seem to be any reasonable justification for Lloyds to 
have used an estimated figure of £10,000 given the maximum limit of £7,500. 
Putting things right
Lloyds should recalculate Ms claim to only deduct the SEISS payment received by Ms 
partner relevant to the indemnity period. My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint in part. Society of Lloyd's should put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman