DRN-2921881
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Paragon Bank Plc required them to redeem the whole of their 
buy to let mortgage, forcing them to pay an early repayment charge (ERC), and pay costs to 
obtain borrowing elsewhere to repay it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a buy to let mortgage with Paragon. It was originally taken out over a 
former commercial building, which was then converted into five flats.
There was the original mortgage, and a separate further advance, each with their own fixed 
rate deal. The ERCs on the two fixed rates expired in 2020.
Where a mortgage is secured over a portfolio of properties, as this one came to be, Paragon 
requires no more than 50% of the secured properties to be sold; if more than 50% are to be 
sold, the whole mortgage must be redeemed.
Mr and Mrs M decided to sell some of the flats and had accepted offers from three buyers for 
three of the flats. As this was more than 50% of the flats, they were aware that this meant 
they would have to redeem the mortgage in full.
Mr and Mrs M instructed a solicitor and preparations began to redeem the mortgage. 
Unfortunately, just before completion, one of the buyers dropped out due to problems with 
their own mortgage. Mr and Mrs M were now only selling two of the flats  less than 50%. 
Mr and Mrs M say they told Paragon about this. But they say Paragon still insisted on the 
mortgage being redeemed. So Mr and Mrs M felt forced to repay the mortgage in full. As 
they were now only selling two of the flats they had to raise the rest of the money elsewhere, 
borrowing funds at short notice. Mr and Mrs M complained.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Her view was that Paragon could 
have done more to assist Mr and Mrs M, and if it had they might well only have had to 
reduce the mortgage, not repay it altogether.
She said that as Mr and Mrs M were keeping 60% of the flats, Paragon should refund 60% 
of the ERC they paid to redeem the mortgage  because even if they had kept the mortgage 
on 60% of the flats, they would have had to reduce the balance by 40% and that would have 
incurred a partial ERC. She also said that Paragon should cover the fees Mr and Mrs M 
incurred to borrow elsewhere at short notice.
Paragon didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld, and asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision on the case. I took a different view to the investigator, so I issued a 
provisional decision and invited the parties to comment on my thinking.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Paragons policy is that a mortgage must always be redeemed in full if more than 
50% of the property used as security is sold. But that doesnt mean that the converse 
is true  that it will always agree to retain the mortgage if less than 50% is sold.
Selling part of the property subject to the mortgage affects Paragons security for the 
lending, and it therefore needs to consider whether the remaining property and 
remaining debt is acceptable. It requires a valuation to be carried out of the 
remaining property, and it will then consider whether or not to agree. If it does agree, 
it might require more money to be repaid to rebalance the loan to value.
Therefore, it wasnt the case that Mr and Mrs M had to redeem if selling more than 
half the flats, but could always keep the mortgage if selling less than half.
If they were selling less than half  as ended up being the case  they would have 
had to make an application to Paragon, pay for valuations, and Paragon would then 
have considered whether or not to agree.
Mr and Mrs Ms plan was always to sell three flats, knowing that would mean the 
mortgage would have to be redeemed. That plan changed at the very last minute. 
Completion of the sales and redemption of the mortgage was set; it was only on the 
Friday of the week before that Mr M told Paragon that the sale of one of the flats had 
fallen through, and over the weekend that he emailed Paragon to say he was 
unhappy at having to redeem the mortgage when only selling two flats.
In fact, Paragon had already considered whether it was prepared to agree to the sale 
of the flats in stages, and decided it wasnt. It had told Mr and Mrs Ms solicitor that 
completion of the three flats should be arranged to be simultaneous.
So even before the sale of the third flat fell through, Paragon had advised 
Mr and Mrs M what the process was, and decided it wasnt prepared to agree to 
separate sales of parts of its security.
For that decision to be reconsidered, a new application would need to be made, 
Mr and Mrs M would have to pay for valuations and valuations would have to be 
carried out, and then Paragon would need to consider whether the remaining flats 
would be good security.
This would take some time, and therefore  if this option had been pursued  
completion of the sales on the other flats would be delayed, perhaps for some weeks. 
And there was no guarantee that Paragon would agree  and a risk that the delay 
would lead to another of the flat sales falling through. And it may be that 
Mr and Mrs M were already committed to a completion date and couldnt delay in any 
event. Paragon says Mr M told it he was concerned that another buyer might drop 
out if there was further delay.
All this means that it may well not have been practical to delay completion on the 
other flats while Paragon considered an application for a partial redemption rather 
than a full redemption. And there was no guarantee, even if Mr and Mrs M had 
wanted to make that application, that Paragon would have agreed to it.
Its very unfortunate that Mr and Mrs Ms buyer dropped out at the last minute. This 
caused them difficulty in progressing with the sale of the other flats, since they now 
had to make up the funds to repay the mortgage. And I can understand why they 
were frustrated by it. But Paragon wasnt responsible for the buyer withdrawing. It 
wasnt formally asked to reconsider releasing part of the security  and if it had been, I cant say it would have agreed, or that its clear Mr and Mrs M would have been 
better off, or would have avoided the ERC.
Unfortunately, there are always costs and risks associated with running a property 
business. Things can go wrong at the last minute, as they did here. But I dont think I 
can fairly hold Paragon responsible for that. I think its more likely than not that 
whatever happened Mr and Mrs M would have ended up paying the ERC and so I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Paragon to refund it, or the costs associated with 
raising the additional funds needed when the third buyer dropped out. And so I dont 
think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with my provisional decision. Their solicitor replied on their behalf, 
setting out the history of their contact with Paragon. The solicitor said that Paragon had 
indicated it would consider an application to sell two of the flats only, before Mr and Mrs M 
decided to sell three. It didnt agree with my characterisation of this as a last minute change 
 completion was set for early November 2019 and the third buyer dropped out in the 
second week of October, following which the solicitor tried to ask Paragon to consider 
allowing the sale of just two flats with no response.
Despite repeated chasing, it failed to respond to requests for that to be considered. And 
when Mr and Mrs Ms solicitor did speak to Paragon, it said it intended to refuse the 
application on what the solicitor considered to be an arbitrary basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again what I said in my provisional decision, but I havent changed my 
mind. I dont think the fact that Paragon indicated at an early stage that it would consider an 
application meant that it was bound to grant that application if and when it was made  and 
nor should Mr and Mrs M have relied on that indication as if it was, even as an insurance in 
case one of the sales fell through. 
Im grateful for the further detail of the timeline of events that the solicitor has provided, 
which is more detailed than was available to me before. And Ive taken that into account  
and while selling two rather than three properties may not have been a last minute change, 
it was nonetheless a change of plan with less than a month to completion which required an 
application to Paragon to see whether it would change what it had already agreed. 
Ultimately, it was a matter for Paragon to decide whether it was prepared to take the risks of 
reducing the proportion of the building as a whole that was covered by its security. While it 
could have given Mr and Mrs M an answer more quickly, I dont think that made any 
difference as by then they were committed to the sale of the other two flats and I think its 
likely the outcome would have been the same. And while I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs M wish Paragon had made a different decision, Im afraid I dont think it was one 
that fell outside the range of reasonable commercial decisions it was entitled to make.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman