DRN-3889849
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc treated him unfairly when he asked to extend the 
term of his interest only mortgage. He says it caused delays during which time interest rates 
increased. He asks that it offers him an extension on the rates available in early 2022, or 
pays compensation for his costs and his suffering and distress.
What happened
The term of Mr Ss interest only mortgage was due to expire in July 2022. In early 2022 he 
contacted Santander to request an extension.
Mr S says Santanders service was poor and it caused delays. Santander then declined the 
application, saying it wasnt affordable. Mr S re-mortgaged with another lender.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I intended to uphold the complaint. 
I said Santanders error wasnt that it declined Mr Ss request for a term extension. Its error 
was that it delayed telling Mr S this.
I asked both parties to send further information, so that I could assess whether Mr S had 
financial loss that Santander should compensate him for. Santander provided the requested 
information, about when Mr Ss product expired and the interest rate applied after this. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said Santander knew throughout that he had dependent children. He 
said it requested documents unnecessarily and this breached his privacy and human rights. 
He set out the timeline and Santanders poor service. He says Santanders error resulted in 
him incurring significant additional interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The term of Mr Ss interest only mortgage was due to expire in July 2022. His fixed rate 
product was due to expire in May 2022. Mr S applied for a term extension in early 2022. 
Mr S is unhappy that Santander didnt extend the term of his mortgage. And he says it 
caused delays with the application.
First, I dont think Santander was unfair to decline to extend the term of Mr Ss mortgage.
Rules on mortgage regulation changed in 2014. The new rules include requirements for 
lenders to carry out strict affordability assessments before offering or agreeing to vary a 
mortgage. There are exceptions to this for existing borrowers that meet certain conditions. 
The rules are contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB).
There were two potential routes under MCOB for Santander to agree the term extension that 
Mr S requested, despite any concerns about affordability. Our investigator said Santander 
should have considered whether this would have been in Mr Ss best interests.
When a borrower is unable to repay their interest only mortgage at the end of the term, Id 
expect the lender to treat the borrower fairly and give fair and reasonable consideration to 
any requests made by the borrower to help them. Some possible options include term 
extensions, converting to a repayment mortgage or allowing overpayments.
Mr S wanted to extend the term of the mortgage to his 70th birthday and use a pension lump 
sum to repay it. He provided evidence that his pension fund was sufficient to repay the 
mortgage.
However, I must take into account here that Mr S did have options to repay the mortgage 
balance at the end of the term in 2022. He was able to do this by taking out a retirement 
interest only mortgage with another lender. But Mr S also had the option of repaying the 
balance using his tax-free pension lump sum. Mr S confirmed he was able to take the tax- 
free lump sum in 2022. He didnt want to do this as he hoped his pension investments would 
increase in value. But this was another option for him to repay the mortgage.
When Mr S took the mortgage out, he agreed to repay the outstanding capital at the end of 
the term in 2022. Its not unreasonable for Santander to expect the loan to be repaid as 
agreed.
Mr S was asking Santander to extend the term not because he couldnt repay the mortgage, 
but because this was his preferred option. Even if Santander had considered whether this 
was in Mr Ss best interests this doesnt mean it would have extended the term. For 
instance, it would have had to take into account that Mr Ss pension investments might not 
increase in value, and could even decrease. And hed be paying interest on his mortgage in 
the meantime.
Taking all of the circumstances into account, I dont think I can fairly find that Santander 
made an error or treated Mr S unfairly when it declined to extend the term of his mortgage.
I do think though that Santander caused delays in reaching a decision and its service was 
poor.
Mr S provided documents requested by Santander in mid-February 2022. Santander said it 
couldnt extend the term with Mr Ss pension as the repayment vehicle. Santander provided 
its policy for extending interest only mortgages. I think it followed its policy when it asked 
Mr S to provide a sale of property form, confirming hed sell the property if necessary to 
repay the mortgage.
Mr S was reluctant to provide this as he felt his pension was sufficient. He provided the 
signed sale of property form at the end of March 2022.
There was a delay at this point caused by Santander. Mr S chased Santander in mid-April 
2022 as he hadnt heard from it. And he called again at the beginning of May 2022.
Santander said Mr Ss application had timed out by the end of March 2022. When Mr S 
provided the sale of property form it re-submitted the application, but it failed affordability due 
to the increase in the cost of living and interest rate stress tests.
Santander asked Mr S to send up to date bank statements and income evidence. Once it 
received this it booked an appointment with a mortgage adviser for mid-May 2020. At this point Santander included Mr Ss two dependent children in the application. This meant the 
application failed affordability. Santander accepts it should have identified that Mr S had 
dependants in February 2022.
Mr S made a number of overpayments during June and July 2022 (totalling nearly £30,000) 
and re-mortgaged with another lender at the end of July 2022.
Putting things right
Santanders error here isnt that it declined Mr Ss request for a term extension. Its error is 
that it caused a delay in telling Mr S this.
Mr S asks that Santander pays compensation for the increase in interest rates during the 
delay. He says he should be given compensation based on the difference between the rate 
hes paying and the Santander product rate he applied for in early 2022. I dont think that 
would be fair. Santander didnt agree to extend the term of Mr Ss mortgage, so this product 
rate wasnt available to him. And from what Mr S has told us, it seems the mortgage hes 
taken out is a retirement interest only mortgage (RIO), with features different from the 
Santander mortgage he wanted to extend.
Santander says it should have identified that Mr S had financial dependants (making the 
mortgage unaffordable) in February 2022. Had it done so, and declined the extension at that 
time, Mr S would have been able to look elsewhere sooner. Most likely hed have been in a 
position to re-mortgage about the time or soon after his fixed interest product ended. 
Santander provided a copy of the product offer that Mr S accepted in 2020. His fixed rate 
product ended on 2 May 2022. After this, a variable rate applied which was 3.25% above the 
Bank of England base rate. The base rate was 1% in early May 2022 and 1.25% from mid-
June 2022. This meant Mr S paid interest at 4.25% in May and June 2022, and then at 4.5% 
until he repaid the mortgage at the end of July 2022. 
Mr S provided a recommendation for a RIO which shows an interest rate of 4.49%. This was 
higher than the rate being applied to his Santander mortgage after his product expired, and 
marginally less than the rate applied in July 2022. 
Mr S made a number of overpayments through June and July 2022 before taking out the 
RIO. Mr S said he funded the overpayments by selling assets at an inconvenient time. Mr S 
hasnt said if he had to do this in order to take out the RIO, or if it was simply advantageous 
for him to do so. I dont know if Mr S would have been able (and willing) to sell these assets 
sooner, so that he could re-mortgage sooner. I asked Mr S for evidence about the RIO, in 
particular the interest rate and the amount he borrowed. Mr S didnt provide this. 
Based on the available evidence I dont think I can fairly find that Mr S would have taken out 
the RIO earlier if Santander had told him at the outset that it wouldnt extend the term of his 
interest only mortgage. I dont think I can fairly find that Mr S suffered a financial loss as a 
result of the delay.
I think its right that Santander pays compensation for the worry and upset caused by the 
delays. Most of Mr Ss upset here is likely due to Santander declining his request to extend 
the term of his mortgage. Thats not something I can fairly require Santander to pay 
compensation for. But Mr S had to chase Santander to find out what was happening with his 
application. This was only a short time before the term of his mortgage was due to expire. 
Santander asked Mr S for information and documents after it should have told him it wouldnt 
extend the term of his mortgage. He says this breached his privacy and human rights. The 
data should be held securely in accordance with Santanders data policy. Whether this is a breach of Mr Ss human rights would be a matter for a court. But providing this information 
certainly meant Mr S was put to unnecessary effort and inconvenience. 
Santander paid £175 compensation and agreed with our investigators recommendation that 
it pay another £300. In the circumstances and based on the available evidence, I think this is 
fair and reasonable compensation for the upset caused.
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £300 (in addition to the £175 already paid) 
to Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman