DRN-4053556
The complaint
Miss K says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss K took out a loan from Tesco Bank on 28 April 2017. It was for £29,000 over 94 
months. The monthly payments were £523.62 and the total repayable was £49,220.28. 
Miss K says Tesco Bank did not carry out proper checks, she was already struggling 
financially and was desperate for the loan. She has found it hard to make the repayments.
Our investigator issued two assessments; I will refer only to the second as that it the current 
view of this service. She upheld Miss Ks complaint saying she did not think Tesco Bank had 
carried out proportionate checks and had it done so it would have seen the loan would not 
be sustainably affordable for Miss K.
Tesco Bank disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said, in summary, its data 
showed Miss K was not as heavily indebted as she suggested, and it had verified her 
information with two external sources. Miss Ks total revolving debt was £1,733 so it seemed 
unlikely she had to make the minimum payments she has stated. Also, it could not have 
known Miss K was repaying her partners loan. She had also declared she had no housing 
costs, despite saying more recently they were £150. It argues it is not fair to base our 
assessment on information from Miss K that she did not disclose at the time, or that would 
not have shown on a credit check.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Miss Ks complaint.
Tesco Bank needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss K 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. This means without
having to borrow to repay or suffering other adverse financial consequences. These checks
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, Miss Ks income and expenditure and her credit history.
This means to reach my decision I need to decide if Tesco Bank carried out proportionate
checks at the time of the application; if so, did it make a fair lending decision based on the
results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would most likely have shown.
Tesco Bank asked for some information from Miss K when she applied for the loan. This
included her net monthly income, any rent or mortgage costs and any existing credit
commitments. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was a car. I note Miss K has told 
us this was not the case; it was to repay other debts. Tesco Bank made an assumption 
about Miss Ks living costs using national statistics. It also completed a credit check to 
understand her credit history and existing commitments. It then asked for her last months 
bank statement to check her salary, and concluded she would be able to afford the loan 
based on the results of these checks.
I am not persuaded these checks were proportionate. The monthly repayment was a high 
relative to Miss Ks income and Tesco Bank needed to be sure she could sustainably meet 
this commitment for 94 months  and she already had almost £17,000 of unsecured debt.
However, I think that even based on the data it gathered Tesco Bank ought to have realised 
there was a risk the loan would not be sustainably affordable for Miss K. It knew her monthly 
income was £1,789.23 and that she was already making loan repayments of £384 a month. 
It allocated £52 for her revolving debt repayments  I would argue this number should be 
higher at around £86 if Miss K was to sustainably repay that debt. But that aside Tesco Bank 
lent to Miss K knowing it would mean she was spending around 55% of her income on her 
unsecured credit commitments. I think at that level it ought to have been concerned this 
would not be sustainable over such a long loan term.
Had Tesco Bank carried out further checks it would have found indicators to support this 
conclusion. Our investigator explained that reviewing Miss Ks bank statements from the 
three months prior showed she did not have the disposable income Tesco Bank had 
estimated. More crucially, they show Miss K was persistently reliant on her overdraft and 
was typically only in credit for a day or two after she was paid. This meant any additional 
borrowing she took on would most likely be repaid from this facility  and so she would in 
essence be borrowing to repay this loan. 
I have carefully considered Tesco Banks comments about why the lending was responsible. 
I can see there wasnt recent adverse data on Miss Ks credit file, but Tesco Bank needed to 
consider the likely impact of extending Miss Ks indebtedness. I do agree with its point that it 
should not be expected to take into account a loan in someone elses name that Miss K was 
repaying, but that has not been a factor in my decision. My findings are based on the 
information available to Tesco Bank at the time, both through the checks it did and had it 
carried out better checks. 
It follows, for the reasons set out above, I find it was wrong to give Miss K this loan. 
Putting things right
As I have concluded Tesco Bank should not have given the loan to Miss K, I dont think its 
fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But its fair 
that Miss K should pay back the capital she borrowed as she has had the benefit of that 
money.
So, Tesco Bank should:
 Rework the loan account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already
refunded) that have been applied.
 If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss K along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date 
of settlement. Tesco Bank should also remove all adverse information regarding this account 
from Miss Ks credit file. Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco Bank should arrange an
affordable repayment plan with Miss K for the remaining amount. Once Miss K has cleared 
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from her 
credit file.
If Tesco has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt from
the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give 
Miss K a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply 
the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ks complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman