DRN-2818295
The complaint
Mr G complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) caused a delay when 
transferring his ISA to a new provider. 
What happened
Mr G held a stocks and shares ISA with Halifax. In April 2020 he gave instructions to a new 
provider for the ISA to be transferred. Mr G says he encountered significant delays and he 
had to regularly chase both providers to progress the application and to receive updates. 
The transfer didnt complete until 24 September 2020 and Mr G complains about the length 
of time it took. The complaint against the new provider has been considered separately.
Halifax maintain that they did nothing wrong. They say the application was received on 19 
August 2020, at which time they wrote to Mr G explaining that a fee had to be taken. The fee 
was taken on 3 September and the transfer completed on 24 September, with the account 
being closed on 30 September 2020.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He noted guidance that this type of transfer 
should usually complete within thirty days. Our investigator thought that Halifax had 
contributed to the overall delay, in that they hadnt progressed the application when received 
on 7 August and had set Mr Gs expectations by saying a transfer would usually be 
completed within two to three weeks. Further, Mr G had been left to chase both providers to 
get updates. Our investigator asked Halifax to compensate Mr G £150 for the delay.
Halifax disagree with the outcome. They say there are no regulatory requirements or 
guidelines, which state that an ISA transfer must be completed within thirty days. As Mr G 
owed outstanding fees, the process could not commence until these were paid, which wasnt 
until 3 September. Thereafter, the transfer progressed within a reasonable period.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the timeline of events. Mr G contacted Halifax at the end of May to explain that 
he was transferring his ISA and he updated his payment details. So, Halifax were on notice 
of an application. 
Having reviewed the emails from the time, I consider that it is more likely than not that 
Halifax received the transfer request on 7 August 2020. No steps were taken to progress the 
transfer at this time and no explanation has been provided as to why this did not happen.
Halifax acknowledged the transfer request on 19 August 2020 and wrote to Mr G explaining 
that a fee would be taken from his preferred method of payment in ten working days. Halifax 
also told Mr G that the transfer process would take two to three weeks. There was no 
suggestion within this letter that the two to three week period would start after the fee had 
been taken.
It isnt disputed that a fee was taken from Mr Gs account around 3 September 2020 and the 
transfer was completed by 24 September 2020. However, screenshots provided by Mr G 
(dated 2 September 2020) show that the account was closed well before the transfer took 
place, which is inconsistent with Halifaxs assertion that the account was closed on 30 
September 2020. As at the beginning of September, Mr G was still chasing both providers. 
At this stage the position was confusing.
Mr G has given a consistent account about having to chase both providers for updates and 
theres nothing to show that Halifax updated Mr G. Ive also seen that Halifax had not 
informed the new provider when the fee was paid, which caused additional delay.
Halifax are right that there are no set regulatory timelines in which ISA transfer should 
complete. Transfers should be undertaken within a reasonable period and the guidance on 
the government website is that this type of transfer should take around thirty days, not that it 
must. 
The whole process in this instance took over five months, with the larger part of the delay 
falling to the new provider (against whom a complaint has already been considered). In this 
particular complaint, I think that there were also shortcomings on Halifaxs part, in failing to 
progress the request when first received, in failing to update Mr G and the new provider. Ive 
also noted that the account was closed before the transfer took place, which restricted Mr 
Gs access.
I am satisfied that these matters caused Mr G distress and he was put to the inconvenience 
of having to chase about progression of the transfer and for a response. This was against 
background of Mr G having explained his distress to Halifax.
Id like to reassure Halifax that this decision does not set any precedent, each complaint is 
considered on its own particular facts.
Putting things right
In these circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr G. Mr G has 
explained that the ongoing delay at the time caused him upset and he spent time reviewing 
the progress and chasing Halifax for a response. In my view £150 is adequate compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he was put to.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am upholding this complaint. I direct Halifax Share Dealing Limited 
to pay Mr G £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman