DRN-4495872
The complaint
Mr K complains Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) failed to notify him 
his car insurance hadnt renewed and that this had a detrimental financial impact on him. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr K had a car insurance policy which was arranged by AA - as the broker of his 
policy. The policy provided third party fire and theft cover only.
In July 2023, he was involved in a motor incident when a third-party driver allegedly 
drove into the back of his car causing damage. 
Mr K contacted AA to report the incident but was informed he no longer had a policy. 
Mr K was unaware his insurance had lapsed and said hed not been informed of this 
by AA. 
AA looked into things and said it had sent a letter to Mr K in May 2023 explaining it 
couldnt renew his policy because the underwriter of the policy had changed the 
criteria. But it realised the letter had been sent to the wrong address.
Mr K was unhappy about this and complained to AA. In response, AA said the 
decision to no longer provide cover to Mr K was the underwriters decision, and not 
its. And it was sorry for sending the letter to the incorrect address. It sent a cheque 
for £75 to recognise the inconvenience this had caused.
Mr K remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. Whilst the 
complaint was with this Service, AA subsequently offered to pay an additional £250 
compensation to Mr K  bringing the total compensation to £325.00. And said it 
would write a letter explaining that it was due to a mistake on its part that Mr K was 
unaware his insurance had lapsed.
An Investigator reviewed the matter and was satisfied AA writing a letter  explaining 
it was at fault  together with £325 compensation was a reasonable way of putting 
things right. 
Mr K disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached  and Ill explain why. 
But first, its important to clarify Im only concerned with the actions of AA as the broker. So, 
any concerns Mr K has about the underwriter not renewing his policy, will need to be 
directed to them in the first instance. 
Repair costs
Mr K has said AA should cover the cost of repairing his vehicle because of its mistake. But 
Im not persuaded this is reasonable because even if Mr Ks policy had renewed, or the 
incident had taken place before the policy lapsed, he only had third party fire and theft 
insurance. This covers third-party personal injury, and damage to third-party property  but 
notably, does not cover damage to his car unless caused by fire or theft. And so, to direct AA 
to cover his repair costs would put him in a better position than what he was entitled to under 
the policy  and I dont consider that to be fair. 
Furthermore, the incident was allegedly reported as a non-fault incident, meaning the third 
partys insurer may be liable for some or all of the costs hes incurred. So, directing AA to 
cover costs which Mr K could pursue through the third-party insurer wouldnt be reasonable 
either.   
I appreciate the loss of income, paying for his car to be repaired, and hiring a replacement 
car had financial implications for Mr K, but Im not satisfied he only incurred these as a result 
of AA sending a letter to the wrong address. Ultimately, even if his policy had renewed with 
the same level of cover, it wouldnt have covered these costs  and so, I dont consider it 
reasonable to direct AA to cover them.
Compensation
So, whats left for me to consider is whether the compensation offered by AA reasonably 
reflects the difficulties Mr K experienced. Understandably, finding out he wasnt insured 
would have been a shock for Mr K and I appreciate he subsequently worried about what 
might have happened had he been found to have been driving without insurance. Whilst my 
intention isnt to diminish these genuine concerns, I have to keep in mind  when looking at 
the impact of AAs actions on him  that ultimately, these concerns didnt manifest. And so, it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to direct AA to pay compensation for events which didnt 
materialise - though I have kept in mind that the possibility of this happening caused him 
worry. 
Mr K says he was prevented from making a claim because once the third-party driver 
became aware he was uninsured, it was used against him to prevent him making a claim. 
Our Investigator asked for evidence of this, but Mr K wasnt able to provide this. Without this 
I cant reasonably conclude AAs mistake prejudiced Mr Ks ability to lodge a claim with the 
third-party insurer. 
I appreciate being without a car and organising repairs was inconvenient for Mr K but even if 
his policy had renewed, because of the limited level of cover he had, this was something he 
would have always had to sort himself  and so, I dont consider it to be attributable to AAs 
mistake of sending the letter to the wrong address. 
So, when I consider the above, Im satisfied £325 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and I wont be directing AA to pay more than this. 
I also consider AAs offer of writing a letter acknowledging it was at fault with regards to Mr K 
not being aware his policy hadnt renewed to be reasonable. My final decision
Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited has already made the following offer to 
settle the complaint:
pay Mr K an additional £250 compensation.
write a letter explaining Mr K was unaware his cover hadnt renewed because of its 
error.
And I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited should pay Mr K an 
additional £250. If Mr K hasnt cashed the previous cheque for £75 and the cheque has 
expired, it will need to add £75 when it makes its compensation payment so that Mr K 
receives £325 compensation in total.
Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date 
of payment at 8% a year simple.
And Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited must issue a letter explaining that 
its mistake  sending a letter to the wrong address which was to inform Mr K his policy 
hadnt renewed - led to Mr K being unaware his insurance had lapsed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman