DRN-3260198
The complaint
Mrs N complains about how ReAssure Limited has managed her pension plan.
What happened
Mrs N took her pension out around 1989. The plan was originally taken with another 
provider. ReAssure has since taken over the plan and has accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Throughout this decision, Ill mainly refer to ReAssure, though some historic 
actions mayve been carried out by the previous provider. 
Mrs N has complained to ReAssure recently about how the pension has been managed. She 
thinks the fund value is too low and is very different to the amounts various statements have 
shown she may receive over the years. Mrs N also questioned an amount of redress she 
was paid in 2002 as part of an industry wide Pension Review.
Reassure responded to Mrs Ns complaint. It explained that Mrs Ns pension balance was a 
result of market conditions over the years. It didnt accept that Mrs Ns pension had been 
mis-managed. Reassure confirmed that Mrs N had accepted the offer of redress following 
the Pension Review in 2002 and it had added the redress to her pension plan.
Mrs N didnt accept this and referred her complaint to this Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs N didnt agree and asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So its been passed to me to consider 
and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N has submitted her complaint to us in detail. And shes made many points and asked 
many questions when bringing her complaint to us. I wont respond in the level of detail 
which shes brought the complaint to us. And I may not respond to each and every point 
shes made, but Ive thought about everything shes said. I hope Mrs N realises I mean no 
disrespect by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this Service. 
Instead, Ill focus on what I deem to be the crux of Mrs Ns complaint which is the difference 
between the projections she was provided over the years on her annual statements versus 
the amount she actually has in her pension pot. And the redress she was paid as part of the 
industry wide Pension Review in 2002.
Mrs N has questioned whether she was given poor advice when she took the pension. 
Ultimately, it was accepted, as part of the Pension Review, that she was given poor advice. 
This is why ReAssure paid redress to Mrs N in 2002. And Mrs N accepted this. The Pension 
Review exercise back then was aimed to compensate those who had been poorly advised 
and put them back, as much as possible, in the position they wouldve been in. Given that 
Mrs N had been told then that the pension hadnt been right for her, she couldve taken 
further advice at the time. But she chose to continue with the pension plan.
The Pension Review instigated by the then regulator, and which Mrs Ns pension was
reviewed under, was designed to be a one-off exercise. It was the regulator who told firms
how to offer redress in a number of scenarios. And the Pension Review calculations were
subject to supervision and sampling at the time, by the regulator. 
Its important to note that under the industry wide Pension Review, established by the
regulator, businesses were only required to conduct the review once, using the standards
and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the assumptions
or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the future loss.
The regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis-selling and
would put things right at the time. Once a business carried out a Pension Review for a
customer, they werent required to review it again. 
I must be clear that we dont offer a calculation checking service here. However, I have 
looked at the information ReAssure used when doing this calculation and I see no obvious 
errors. And crucially, Mrs N hasnt told us about any mistakes in the information or 
assumptions used to calculate the redress. So, I see no reason to ask ReAssure to revisit 
this issue.
Ill now turn to Mrs Ns other main point of her complaint  the illustrations she was provided 
and the difference between those and her fund now. 
Firstly, its worth noting that the benchmarks used for these annual reviews were set by the 
industry regulator, not ReAssure. These benchmarks are purely examples of what a 
customer may get at a given rate. Its not the business predicting what they think will be 
achieved. 
Whilst its now known that these benchmarks were overly optimistic, this isnt something I 
can hold ReAssure responsible for. It was simply using rates it had been told to use. 
Furthermore, each of the annual reviews did explain that these were merely illustrations, and 
the amount Mrs N received may be lower or higher. Its unfortunate that its much lower than 
Mrs N says she believed she would get. But this doesnt mean ReAssure mis-managed the 
pension. 
Mrs Ns pension plan is dependent on the performance of the underlying funds. And these 
can go up as well as down. Furthermore, Mrs N hasnt contributed to the plan since 2006. 
The projections before this seem to have been based on Mrs N continuing to contribute to 
the pension, which she hasnt.
Mrs N has asked why her contracted-out contributions stopped. This is unclear. But this 
wouldnt have been on the instruction of ReAssure. ReAssure was simply responsible for 
allocating the payments it received. If these payments stopped, it wasnt required to take any 
further pro-active action to find out why. If Mrs N still has concerns about this, she should 
approach the employer who was responsible for paying these contributions.
Mrs N has also said that she wasnt contacted by ReAssure about reviewing the plan or to 
discuss other options she had with regards to her pension, such as switching funds. 
However, I cant see that ReAssure was asked to provide ongoing advice here. Once the 
pension had been set up, it was up to Mrs N to decide if she wished to take further financial 
advice and review her pension, and I cant see that she did. Nor did she contact ReAssure 
about her options until very recently, and when she did, it sent her further information about 
her options.  I understand why Mrs N is disappointed given the amount the illustrations showed she may 
get back and the current value. However, these illustrations also are at age 60, which is still 
a few years away for Mrs N. Overall, I dont think that ReAssure shouldve taken further 
action to contact Mrs N to review the account. And Ive seen nothing to suggest her pension 
has been mis-managed. So, Im not going to ask ReAssure to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman