DRN-3733997
The complaint
Ms S complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has unfairly 
refused her critical illness claim.   
What happened
Ms S took out her policy in September 2011. It offers her both life and critical illness cover, 
with a sum assured of £20,758. The policy is set up to run until September 2033.  
In September 2020, Ms S made a claim to L&G for critical illness under her policys cancer 
definition. She had sadly been diagnosed with a very rare type of cancer in February 2020 - 
dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP). It required a wide excision surgery in March 
2020 to remove it. L&G then sought medical information from Ms Ss GP to verify the claim.  
L&G reviewed the medical information, but in March 2021 it told Ms S that it was unable to 
pay her critical illness claim. It said a histology report showed Ms Ss DFSP arose and was 
located in the deepest layers of the skin.  
It said it had shown the relevant medical information to its own consultant oncologist Chief 
Medical Officer (CMO) who said that DFSP was a sarcoma that arose in the connective 
tissue of the dermis, and so was a skin cancer. In this particular case, the tumour had 
extended to the subcutaneous fat which was, anatomically, part of the skin. L&G said it 
believed any neoplasm arising primarily in the skin should be regarded as skin cancer and 
excluded under the policy.
Ms S complained. She explained that she understood soft tissue sarcomas to be a group of 
rare cancers affecting the tissues that connect, support and surround other body structures 
and organs. They grew in the body's connective tissue cells, which included fat, blood 
vessels, nerves, bones, muscles, deep skin tissues and cartilage. Contrastingly, skin cancer 
referred to a group of cancers that slowly developed in the upper layers of the skin.
L&G reconsidered its position, but in December 2021 it said it still wasnt prepared to pay Ms 
Ss claim. It reiterated that DFSP was a type of skin cancer and excluded by the policy. 
Specifically, it noted that despite being a sarcoma, DFSP arose in the skin. In this case, the 
histology report it had referenced previously confirmed Ms Ss tumour had extended to the 
subcutaneous fat - which was anatomically part of the skin.
In its letter, L&G also told Ms S that it would address her complaint separately. That same 
month, Ms S brought her complaint to this service, noting that L&G hadnt issued any reply. 
She said at all times during her treatment, her cancer had been referred to as a soft tissue 
sarcoma, not a skin cancer. She also explained that when she was in hospital for her 
surgery, she met a patient under the care of the same sarcoma team as her who had the 
same diagnosis. The patient had L&G critical illness insurance and her claim was paid in full. 
 
An investigator reviewed the complaint and felt that it should succeed, with her proposal to 
resolve the complaint being that L&G ought to do more to objectively assess Ms Ss claim. 
She said that though L&G had sought three medical opinions from its own specialists (of 
which it had supplied two), it had not put the policy definition to Ms Ss treating consultant. 
The investigator said L&G should do so now, and pay Ms S £500 for its inability to expedite 
the claim process or provide a complaint outcome  which remained outstanding.   
Ms S said she agreed with the investigators proposal. However, she still took issue with the 
fact L&G had paid out for other DFSP cases, and ombudsmen at this service had also 
directed businesses to pay claims for DFSP. She felt this set a precedent especially when 
another ombudsmans decision of 2016 had directed L&G to pay a claim for DFSP.  
L&G sent a further third party report from a European Professor of histopathology, which 
confirmed though DFSP appeared in classifications for both soft-tissue tumours and in the 
World Health Organisation classification for skin cancers, it concluded that DFSP is a locally 
aggressive soft tissue tumour (sarcoma) of the skin*.
It did not supply any additional comments, and the complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter has awaited an ombudsmans review. 
I recognise that Ms S has referred to a specific decision upheld by a different ombudsman 
from this service that has similar circumstances regarding a critical illness claim for DFSP. 
And, she is aware of another policyholder who has had a claim paid out by L&G for DFSP. 
To be clear, I cant look at the circumstances of the other policyholder, who is not part of this 
complaint. And. previous complaints do not establish fixed precedents for subsequent ones 
at this service. I will be mindful of relevant law, industry standards, relevant guidance and 
accepted approaches when considering a complaint. However, each complaint brought to 
this service will be decided on its own facts, as they relate to a complainants individual 
circumstances and the specific actions of the business being complained about. 
Ive taken into account the evidence provided about Ms Ss specific diagnosis alongside the 
information relied upon by L&G to decide if a claim has been met against the relevant policy 
wording. And, like our investigator, I do not believe L&G has sufficiently determined that the 
policy exclusion applies because the claim has not been properly concluded. I also believe it 
ought to do more to resolve this complaint  and issue a further outcome to Ms Ss claim.
Under the terms of Ms Ss policy, cancer is defined as:
Cancer  excluding less advanced cases
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and 
characterised by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue. 
The term malignant tumour includes leukaemia, lymphoma and sarcoma.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
All cancers which are histologically classified as any of the following:
 pre-malignant;
 non-invasive;
 cancer in situ;
 having either borderline malignancy; or having low malignant potential.
All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a 
Gleason score greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM 
classification T2N0M0.
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia unless histologically classified as having 
progressed to at least Binet Stage A.
Any skin cancer other than malignant melanoma that has been 
histologically classified as having caused invasion beyond the 
epidermis (outer layer of skin) [my emphasis].
The wording is clear that for claims of cancer, sarcomas are covered (providing there is 
histological evidence that they are characterised in the way described regarding uncontrolled 
growth and invasion of tissue). Its worth noting here that neither party appears to dispute 
that Ms Ss sarcoma is a malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth of 
malignant cells and invasion of tissue. From the evidence Ive seen, the reason L&G wont 
pay a claim is because it says the (bold) exclusion applies, since it contends that any 
neoplasm arising primarily in the skin should be regarded as skin cancer; therefore DFSP is 
excluded under the policy.
I recognise there are conflicting sets of medical opinions regarding DFSP and the 
classification of skin. And I note that L&Gs CMO disputes Ms Ss conclusions that her DFSP 
diagnosis was not a skin cancer, but instead a sarcoma which can occur in many types of 
connective tissue  including skin.   
The medical report L&G has supplied most recently to this service is not a specific medical 
report relating to Ms S; rather, it is a report which addresses whether DFSP was considered 
a skin cancer in general terms, according to the Professors individual expertise. 
Further, though L&Gs CMO has provided a view from a specialist oncology perspective 
arguing that Ms Ss condition was a skin cancer, I am mindful that the other medical 
assessment supplied from L&G (in its files dated June 2021) concluded that DFSP was a 
form of sarcoma, rather than a skin cancer.   
It is not my role to issue findings on which specialist is correct or has the most authority on a 
subjective matter, as I am not a medical expert. This service isnt a court; its set up to 
provide informal dispute resolution. My duty is to determine a complaint by reference to what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances having regard to the evidence. 
On general grounds, where there is conflicting evidence, Ill decide what I believe is the most 
persuasive, on balance. However, I cannot do that here  because L&G has not sought the 
relevant medical evidence from Ms Ss treating consultant to establish whether her DFSP is 
considered a sarcoma or a skin cancer, and why. Instead, it has provided two conflicting 
internal medical views, and a third party report on the classification, epidemiology, grading, 
prognosis and pathological characteristics of DFSP in the general sense. Whilst that report 
may provide supportive evidence of the rationale for the claim being refused, I expect that 
any evidence relied on ought to be measured against or alongside that of Ms Ss doctor(s).
I do not believe L&G has undergone a complete assessment of this claim. For that reason, I 
will make directions below as to how this matter ought to be resolved.  
Putting things right
L&G must supply Ms Ss policy definition (alongside any of the three medical opinions or 
other evidence if it relies on the same) to her relevant treating specialist(s), requesting an 
explanation as to whether Ms Ss specific diagnosis is considered a skin cancer (or not), and why. It must do so within one month of confirmation from Ms S. 
I believe this is the fair means to concluding this claim; it is clear that the decision is finely 
balanced when L&G has conflicting internal assessments of the same medical evidence. It 
follows that the relevant medical professionals directly involved in Ms Ss treatment are in 
the best position to offer a clinical opinion on her instance of DFSP, with reference to the 
policy definition of sarcoma and exclusion of skin cancer as set out above.  
L&G must then issue a final outcome to Ms Ss claim, as soon as is practicable. My decision 
does not prevent Ms S from making a further complaint about the outcome, if so required.  
Finally, L&G must make a payment to Ms S to reflect the upset and distress Ms S has been 
caused in the handling of the claim. L&G has failed to provide a clear answer as to the 
evidence on which it relies and it must do more to conclude the claim. I can see how 
concerned and distressed Ms S has been about this matter, as it remains unresolved after a 
considerable time. I find an award of £500 is appropriate for the impact of the upset on Ms S.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to undertake 
further steps to conclude the claim, issue an outcome and pay £500 compensation to Ms S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman