DRN-2889082
The complaint
Mr H has complained about The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society. Hes unhappy with
the processes applied when he applied for his annuity. He says there was delay and he
wants his annuity payment backdated to February 2020.
What happened
Mr H had a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) with his Royal London pension. He decided to
take up the option of the GAR and contacted Royal London in January 2020, with the
expectation to start receiving the annuity income in February 2020. The annuity didnt start
until March 2020 and he feels that he missed out on a months worth of annuity income.
Mr H raised a complaint with Royal London on 26 February 2020, but Royal London didnt
uphold the complaint and it was referred to this service.
The complaint was considered by an investigator, but he didnt think that it should be upheld.
He explained that Royal London doesnt provide an annuity service so is unable to provide
the annuity income directly. Royal London does provide an annuity bureau service which
assesses the annuity needs and checks medical history to decide if there may be an
enhanced annuity. It had provided Mr H with an annuity pack dated 16 December 2019, this
explained that it may take some time to arrange the annuity. Mr H had contacted Royal
London on 22 January 2020 and the investigator was satisfied that Royal London hadnt
caused any unreasonable delay after that. There was no guarantee that the pension would
be payable in February 2020. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary:
The point of the complaint was not the delay, it was the fact the pension was payable 
from the date of retirement, 20 February 2020. This seems to be certain even if it 
wasnt a guarantee.
The fact that Royal London have taken over another business and dont provide 
annuities themselves doesnt change the policy.
Outsourcing quotes builds in delays, but that shouldnt delay the start date, even if 
payments are backdated.
The processes were slow. He phoned on 22 January 2020, but nothing could be 
arranged at this time. Instead an appointment was made for 29 January 2020. 
During this call he was told that it would take 2-3 weeks to get a quotation, which 
seems a long time given that all that had to be done was multiply the fund value by 
the guaranteed annuity rate.
The quote was received on 15 February 2020 and he called back on 17 February 
2020 but was offered another telephone appointment for 24 February 2020.
This service had reached a different decision on a similar case.
As no agreement had been reached the case was referred to me for a decision. I made a 
provisional decision. I decided to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I put certain questions to Royal London via the investigator, but there doesnt seem to be
any response to date.
Ive therefore assessed the complaint on the evidence thats currently available. Having
done that, my provisional view is that the complaint should be upheld. Essentially, I think
there was enough time from Mr Hs response on 22 January 2020 for Royal London to
arrange the annuity by 20 February 2020, the retirement date. 
The policy terms say the pension, Will be payable on 20/2/2020 and, will be payable at 
date of retirement. I agree with Mr H that there is a degree of certainty about this.
Royal London doesnt provide annuities itself, but I dont think its fair that any systematic
delays caused by any outsourcing for quotes or arranging the annuity should be visited on
Mr H. As Ive said, the terms of the policy seem fairly clear, and that was the basis on which
it had taken on this business. Mr H could reasonably expect the payment to begin on 20
February 2020.
And when Mr H did make contact on 22 January 2020, the quote wasnt sent until 14
February 2020. Royal London hasnt identified any steps it took to expedite this quote, it
seems that Mr H was expected to follow its standard processes despite the proximity of his
retirement. Mr Hs request couldnt have been totally unexpected, given the value of the
GAR he elected for the maximum annuity without tax free cash. I think the quote could have
been available sooner.
Overall, my current view is that Royal London could have done more to ensure the annuity
was arranged and in payment by 20 February 2020, or closer to that date.
Putting things right
To put things right, Royal London should:
1. Calculate what the gross value of Mr Hs pension pot would have been if his GAR
annuity had been set up on 20 February 2020.
2. Compare this to the actual gross value of his pension pot used to provide the GAR
annuity he has in place.
3. If the gross value of the pension pot was higher on 20 February 2020, it should work
out the difference between the annual gross income Mr H is currently receiving from
his GAR annuity and what he would have received if his GAR annuity had been put
in place on 20 February 2020.
4. It should then work out the open market cost now of buying a top up annuity to make
good the shortfall on the same terms using Mr Hs current age.
5. It should then arrange a single life, non-escalating annuity in Mr Hs name to make
up the shortfall.
6. If it is not possible to buy an annuity to make good any loss, the capital value needed
to buy the top up annuity should be notionally adjusted to allow for the Mr Hs actual
income tax rate; and the net result should be paid directly to him.7. It should also calculate the total net income Mr H would have received from the
annuity, had the annuity set up not been delayed. It should pay Mr H the net
difference between the amount he would have received if his annuity had been set
up on 20 February 2020 and the amount he has actually received, if higher.
8. It should also pay Mr H 8% simple interest on this money to compensate him for loss
of the use of this money from 20 February 2020 to the date the redress is paid.
Mr H needs to be aware that it is possible that this calculation will show no loss.
Royal London must provide its calculation in a clear format for Mr H.
Mr H accepted the provisional decision.
Royal London accepted it but said there was no loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision (as above).
Royal London say there is no loss, but its not clear to me that it has calculated any loss in 
line with clause 7 and 8 from the redress formula.  
Putting things right
Royal London must calculate and pay redress as per the formula set out above. This must 
include any loss of income and interest as per clauses 7 and 8. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman