DRN-2951514
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc didnt renew the debit cards Mr S held on 
their joint account, because it hadnt been used. Mr S brings this complaint.
What happened
Mr S said he had tried to pay for something using the debit card held on the joint account 
that he shares with Mrs S. But he discovered that his debit card had expired, and Santander 
hadnt issued him a new one. 
Santander told Mr S that it doesnt renew cards if they arent used over a 12-month period. 
Mr Ss card hadnt been used for a very long time, all the transactions were on Mrs Ss card. 
Santander said it had now reissued the card. 
Mr S said that Santander hadnt pointed to any terms and conditions which allowed 
Santander to do this, so he asked, and was told it was an internal procedure. Mr S said he 
considered it grossly unfair that one holder of a joint account (which is in substantial credit) 
could be suddenly deprived of access to that account on seemed to be an internal policy that 
it had never mentioned to him. He wanted us to look into this.
Santander said it writes out in batches to people who havent used their cards in the last ten 
months, just before those cards are due to renew. If someone wants to keep their card, the 
letter tells them that they just have to use that card in the next couple of months. If they dont 
use the card in that time, so it hasnt been used for around a year, then the card wont be 
renewed. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that the debit card Mr S 
tried to use had expired in March 2019. He tried to use it in January 2020, some ten months 
later. Our investigator thought Mr S ought to have realised in this time that the card had 
expired. If hed been in touch with Santander during that time, it wouldve sent him a 
replacement card.
Our investigator said Santander had told us it wrote to Mr S as the expiration date 
approached on his old card. So our investigator thought that Santander had given Mr S an 
opportunity to get his card renewed. He didnt think Santander had done anything wrong by 
not reissuing a new card after this. And our investigator thought that Santander had done 
enough to put things right now, by issuing a new card. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed asked Santander to show him the letter it had sent him, and 
it hadnt sent this since. Mr S said he didnt receive any such letter when his card was due to 
renew. And there was no problem with his post. 
Our investigator said he had asked Santander to show that this letter was sent, but it said 
that it sends these letters in batch to customers, and it didnt have a record now of the 
individual letter sent to Mr S.
But our investigator said that even without this letter, he hadnt changed his mind. The card 
had still expired quite some time before Mr S tried to use it. 
Our investigator said that as Mr S didnt agree, he would pass the complaint to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. It then came to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Santander has told our service that it writes to customers shortly before their cards are due 
to be renewed, if that card hasnt been used for a considerable amount of time. It has shown 
us the template of this letter, although it cant show us the individual letter sent to Mr S, 
because it doesnt keep these. 
That letter is the same as other such letters Ive seen previously, for the same purpose, sent 
by Santander. I think its more likely than not that it was sent to Mr S. Of course, I dont know 
that it was received by Mr S, and hes told us it wasnt. But I think that it is more likely than 
not that Santander did take steps to let Mr S know that his card wouldnt be renewed. 
Mr S then didnt try to use his card for almost a year. When he did try to use it, he found that 
the card he had, had expired. Fortunately Mr S was able to use another card, so I dont think 
that this had a severe impact on Mr S. 
I know that Mr S has said he doesnt think our service should be telling customers what to 
do. But as our investigator said, we are an independent service, and were required to be fair 
to both sides. So I should note here that as well as placing a number of expectations on 
banks, for how they deal with customers, our service does also expect customers to keep an 
eye on their accounts. And this would include things like checking whether a card which 
hadnt been used for a considerable amount of time, was still valid, before planning an 
expensive purchase.
Santander has said its happy to renew Mr Ss card for him, and Im pleased to see its now 
done so.
Because I think that its most likely that Santander did try to warn Mr S that his card wouldnt 
be renewed, and because I think that what has gone wrong here isnt clearly Santanders 
fault, I dont think that this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman