DRN-3825712
The complaint
Mr C and Miss J complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 1997. 
I know Mr C and Miss J have made another complaint about Nationwide in respect of PPI 
sold in 2005. Just to be clear, my decision is about the cover sold to them in 1997 only. I 
understand the other complaint was dealt with separately by our adjudicator. 
What happened
PPI was sold to Mr C and Miss J in a Nationwide branch. The cost of the policy was £10.28 
per month. It was set up to cover them if they were made redundant. At the point of sale in 
1997, neither Mr C nor Miss J was covered for accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr C and Miss J disagreed with 
that view. Their complaint was effectively that the person selling PPI to them in 1997 told 
them they had to take PPI out for their mortgage to be agreed. In his view, our adjudicator 
said he didnt think there was enough evidence to show Mr C and Miss J were misled in that 
way. In their response, Mr C and Miss J said there was no evidence to suggest they werent 
misinformed. 
As Mr C and Miss J did not agree with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr C and Miss J will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I havent upheld 
their complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Where the facts of a case are in dispute (as they are here), I have to apply the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, I have to decide what most likely happened based on the 
information and evidence thats before me. 
The parties are in agreement that cover was sold during a face to face meeting in a 
Nationwide branch. I cant know what was said during that meeting. Theres very little 
documentary evidence available from the point of sale. So to help me decide whats most 
likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Mr C and Miss J recall. And Ive considered 
some electronic evidence supplied to us by Nationwide. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Nationwide made it clear to Mr C and Miss J that 
the PPI was optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. I can see Mr C 
and Miss J are adamant they were told they had to take the PPI out in order for their 
mortgage to be agreed. And I accept that what theyve told us is their honest recollection of 
how the cover was sold. But I also have to bear in mind that PPI was sold around 25 years 
ago. And it is difficult to recall precisely what happened such a long time ago. 
As I said above, Mr C and Miss J were sold a policy to cover them if they were made 
redundant only. This policy didnt cover them if they were off sick. I can see in their PPI 
questionnaire that Mr C and Miss J said Nationwide misled them by saying they needed a 
PPI policy in case they couldnt meet their monthly mortgage repayments. If that was the 
case, it is not clear to me why Mr C and Miss J were not sold full cover  for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
In considering all of the information before me, my view is that its most likely Mr C and Miss 
J selected a reduced level of cover. So if they knew they could reduce the level of cover, I 
think its most likely they knew they could refuse the policy altogether if they wanted to. On 
balance, I think its most likely they knew they had a choice about taking the PPI out. 
That said, when Nationwide sold PPI to Mr C and Miss J, it had to give them enough 
information about the cover so they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for 
their needs. That information should have been clear, fair and not misleading. 
Theres no contemporaneous documentation available from the point of sale. Thats not 
unusual given how long ago the cover was sold. But with that in mind, I accept its possible 
that Nationwide didnt tell Mr C and Miss J everything it should have done about the PPI. But 
that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I must next consider whether Mr 
C and Miss J would have acted differently if Nationwide had told them everything it should 
have done. To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at what Mr C and Miss J told us 
about their personal circumstances at the time. And Ive also looked at the terms and 
conditions of the PPI cover. 
So, if Mr C or Miss J lost their jobs, 50% of their mortgage repayments would have been 
covered by the PPI. If they both lost their jobs at the same time, 100% of their mortgage 
repayments would have been met. Each claim could have lasted for up to 12 months after a 
30-day waiting period. 
At the point of sale, Mr C and Miss J had been in their respective jobs for two years and four 
years. On that basis, it seems to me most likely that the PPI would have lasted for 
considerably longer than their likely redundancy payments. 
In their PPI questionnaire, Mr C and Miss J told us they had savings that were worth more 
than six months of their pay. They said they could have used those savings to repay their 
mortgage if they were out of work. However, I note from Nationwides call note, that Mr C 
and Miss J seem to have informed it that their level of savings wasnt much. 
In any event, even if Mr C and Miss J did have savings, with a PPI policy, they could have 
kept those savings intact or used them for their other essential expenditure at what could 
have been a stressful time if one or both of them was out of work. 
I havent seen anything unusual about their employment circumstances that would have 
stopped Mr C and Miss J from being able to make a successful claim if they needed to. I 
must stress that this borrowing was secured on their home, which could have been at risk if 
they were out of work and fell behind with their repayments. Putting all of this together, I 
cant reasonably say Mr C and Miss J would have acted differently if Nationwide had given 
them more or better information about the PPI policy. 
It follows that I dont uphold the complaint and I dont need to tell Nationwide to take any 
further action in this case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman