DRN-4277585
Complaint
Ms G has complained about a loan TM Advances Limited (TM Advances) provided to her. 
She says TM Advances irresponsibly lent her this loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms G and TM Advances had told us. And he 
eventually reached the conclusion that TM Advances hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt 
uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ms G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Gs complaint.
TM Advances needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is TM Advances needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms G could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
TM Advances provided Ms G with a loan for £3,000.00 in September 2021. It was to due be 
repaid in 40 instalments of £249, which meant the total amount to be repaid was £9,960.00. 
TM Advances says it agreed to Ms Gs application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Ms G and her bank account transactions. 
The information Ms G provided about her income and expenditure showed shed be able to 
comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. TM Advances says, in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand,  Ms G has said she was in 
financial difficulty and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms G and TM Advances have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that this was Ms Gs first loan with TM Advances. The information provided does 
suggest Ms G was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and TM 
Advances didnt just rely on what it was told. 
Equally while Ms G did have some previous difficulties with credit in the form of a settled 
county court judgement (CCJ) from 2018 and other missed payments in 2020. But Ms G 
provided a reasonable and plausible explanation for this. And I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for TM Advances to accept this explanation in circumstances where the was 
settled. 
I accept that Ms Gs actual circumstances may not have been accurately reflected in the 
information gathered. But when Ms Gs monthly expenditure is deducted from her income, I 
dont think it can be reasonably concluded that there was no reasonable prospect of Ms G 
being able to make the payments to this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
On the contrary it appears as though the information gathered suggested that Ms G had 
sufficient funds to be able to make her payments.
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that TM Advances did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Ms G  as it looks to be the case that reasonable and 
proportionate checks didnt show the monthly loan repayments to be unaffordable. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Ms G. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman