DRN-2559812
The complaint
Mrs C brought this complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr C. Mrs C is unhappy with what 
Barclays Bank UK (Barclays) has said about the compensation due to settle the complaint 
about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy, taken out alongside a loan by 
the late Mr C.
What happened
The late Mr C took out a loan in 2001 and at the same time purchased a PPI policy 
associated with that loan. The PPI policy was paid for by a single premium that was added to 
the loan amount the late Mr C borrowed, so interest was also paid on the premium amount. 
The PPI policy provided cover related to the loan for accident, sickness, unemployment, 
critical illness, hospitalisation and life. 
Mrs C complained to Barclays on behalf of her husbands estate in 2019, that the PPI had 
been mis-sold. Barclays agreed to uphold the complaint and worked out the compensation 
due for the mis-sold policy.
Barclays said the cost of the PPI, for the premium and interest, was £4,755.79 and also 
worked out compensatory interest on this for the time the estate of Mr C was out of pocket, 
which came to £3,321.14. This made a total of £8,076.93 for the compensation. However 
Barclays said a claim was made on the PPI policy at the time of Mr Cs death, and this 
repaid the outstanding amount of the loan, which was £10,879.39. Therefore, as the amount 
of the claim paid was more than the total compensation for the mis-sale, nothing was due to 
be paid to Mrs C on behalf of the estate of Mr C.
Mrs C did not agree with this as she said the loan was totally separate to the mis-sold policy 
and therefore the compensation for the mis-sold PPI should be paid to her for the estate of 
Mr C. She has also later said that the amount of compensation Barclays worked out for the 
cost of the PPI was incorrect as it did not include the full amount of credit charges and loan 
rate interest caused by the premium.
Our adjudicator said what Barclays had said about deducting the claim from the PPI 
compensation was fair and so nothing was due to be paid to Mrs C for the estate of Mr C.
Mrs C did not agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the business has upheld the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, in this decision I am not 
looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold. I am only considering if what Barclays has said 
about the compensation calculated and due for the mis-sold PPI, is correct and fair. 
I have taken account of all Mrs Cs submission about the PPI and that she believes the PPI 
has no bearing whatsoever, on the loan, and was simply an unwarranted add on by 
Barclays,
Im afraid it is not the case that the PPI has no bearing on the loan and they have to be 
looked at in isolation from each other. In 2001, the late Mr C wanted to borrow £15,000 for 
his own use. At the same time as applying to take out a loan for that amount, a PPI policy 
was also taken out to cover the repayments for the loan if the late Mr C was unable to work 
as a result of accident, sickness, unemployment or hospitalisation. Also, the PPI policy 
covered the outstanding balance repayment of the loan, in the event of the late Mr Cs 
critical illness or death. 
The premium to pay for the PPI policy was £3,812.13, and this amount was also borrowed 
by the late Mr C and added to the £15,000 he was borrowing for his own use. Therefore, the 
total amount borrowed as a loan was £18,812.13. This was to be repaid over 84 months, the 
first payment being made on 16 August 2001 and the last was due on 15 August 2008. Each 
monthly payment for the loan was £299.75, and that amount included £79.41 for the PPI 
policy costs, which were part of the loan amount.
All this data is contained in the computer records provided by Barclays to this service in 
response to the complaint. Whilst Barclays will not permit its computer records to be shared, 
I can reassure Mrs C that this information is as stated in these records.
So, this PPI policy was directly linked to the loan the late Mr C took out, paid for as part of 
the total loan, and the policy cover would pay for repayments of the loan, or the loan balance 
outstanding, in certain circumstances. Thus, the PPI policy is directly related to the loan and 
was only taken out to cover that particular, so it does have direct bearing on the loan.
Sadly, Mr C died in March 2005, part way through repaying for the loan. At this point there 
was still some £10,879.39 to be paid to repay the loan. A claim made on the PPI policy at 
this point for the death of Mr C resulted in the balance of the loan being repaid in full to clear 
the amount owing to zero. If the late Mr C had not had the PPI policy and been able to make 
a claim, his estate would have had to have paid the outstanding balance due on the loan 
from the assets of the estate.
A letter was sent to Mrs C on 4 July 2005 from Barclays that confirmed the loan was: 
repaid in full as a result of a successful claim made on the protection policy. Thus the 
PPI, which was the protection policy for the loan, repaid the balance after Mr Cs death 
which meant the estate didnt have to find the funds to cover the repayment of the 
outstanding balance of the loan.
When a PPI policy is mis-sold the aim of any compensation is to put the consumer as far as 
possible in the position they would have been in had they never taken out the PPI. This 
means refunding all the costs paid for the PPI plus paying compensatory interest on the 
amount of the costs paid from the date paid to the date of final settlement. However, if a 
claim has been made on the policy this has to be taken into account, as if the consumer had 
never taken out the policy, they would never have been able to make to that claim. So any 
claim amount paid out, can be fairly deducted from the compensation calculated as due for 
the mis-sale. And if the claim amount paid is more than the compensation due for the mis-
sold policy, then nothing is due to be paid to the consumer. 
In this case the late Mr C was paid a claim from the policy for £10,879.39 to settle the 
outstanding amount on the loan on his death. Barclays has calculated the compensation due 
for the miss-sold PPI is £8,076.93, made up of the PPI premium paid of £3,812.13 (added to the loan) and interest caused by the premium being in the loan, to the date of settlement of 
the loan is £943.66 (caused by the interest rate charged on the loan). 
As the claim amount paid by the policy to clear the loan amount owing at the time of Mr Cs 
death, is more than the costs the late Mr C paid for the PPI policy including compensatory 
interest, nothing is due to be paid to the estate of Mr C. If the late Mr C had never had the 
policy the loan amount outstanding would not have been paid, so the estate of Mr C would 
have had to find the £10,879.39 to pay to Barclays.
I note Mrs C has submitted her own calculation of the compensation which came to 
£9,686.30. I dont quite see how Mrs C was worked out what she says are the credit charges 
paid and interest charged on premiums paid. But her final figure for the compensation is still 
less than the amount of the successful claim paid of £10,879.39, so there is still no 
compensation due to be paid to the estate using Mrs Cs figures.
Therefore, based on the evidence I have seen relating to the loan, PPI costs and the amount 
of the successful claim made on the PPI policy to repay the loan at the time of Mr Cs death,  
I cannot see that anything is now due to be paid to the estate of Mr C for the compensation 
for the mis-sold PPI. The claim amount paid under the policy was clearly more than the 
compensation due for the mis-sold policy costs, and it is fair to deduct the successful claim 
amount from the compensation due, as this claim would never have been paid if the late Mr 
C had never taken out the PPI policy. 
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I am satisfied that what Barclays has said about 
the compensation in this case, that nothing is due to be paid to the estate of Mr C, is fair and 
correct and I am not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding this complaint by Mrs C on behalf 
of the estate of the late Mr C, that any compensation is due to be paid by Barclays Bank UK 
directly to the estate of Mr C for the mis-sold PPI, as the claim paid by the PPI policy was 
more than the compensation total amount due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman