DRN-3760399
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain Aviva Insurance trading as Quotemehappy.com (Aviva) unfairly 
declined their claim on their home emergency insurance policy.
References to Mr G or Mrs G, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of Aviva involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Aviva.
What happened
The electricity supply in Mr and Mrs Gs garage stopped working so they made a claim on 
their home emergency policy that they held with Aviva.
An Aviva engineer attended Mr and Mrs Gs home and the fault was diagnosed as a loss of 
power in a cable that runs underground from the house and supplies the detached garage.
Aviva declined Mr and Mrs Gs claim as underground cabling isnt covered for repair under 
the terms of the policy. It said the cable was not part of the domestic wiring as it supplied the 
garage. It also said the garage is an outbuilding separate to the main house, which is 
excluded from cover.
Mr G feels Aviva was incorrect to class the wiring as non-domestic because it was entirely 
on his property. He said this seemed to be because there was a small section of cabling 
running underground between his house and garage.
As Mr and Mrs G were not happy with Aviva, they brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said Aviva has 
handled the claim within the terms and conditions of the policy. They said although the policy 
terms dont specifically define domestic wiring, there is no cover for issues relating to 
detached garages and so they were satisfied the claim wasnt covered. 
As Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to 
me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the reasons Aviva gave for declining the claim. It initially said it wasnt classed as 
domestic wiring and it was an underground cable. It said its engineers didnt work on 
underground cables.
I looked at the terms and conditions of the policy to see if there were exclusions relating to 
non-domestic or underground cables. 
On page 46 it says;
What is not covered? 
Repairing or replacing wiring encased in rubber or lead.
Although there is no specific definition within the terms and conditions of the policy of what 
non-domestic includes, Aviva confirmed that to supply the garage the cable must be an 
armoured cable. And its technical team said;  "Armoured cable is just ordinary cable but with 
a metal outer sheath, and another pvc covering, for protection against damage which is why 
it is recommended for underground wiring".
Therefore I think this is a fair reason for Aviva to reject the claim.
Aviva also said the claim was declined because the policy does not cover detached garages.
In the policy terms and conditions on page 42 it says;
Property;
The total area of the land and buildings at the address set out in the schedule including the
house, flat or apartment and any attached outbuildings (for example, a garage or lean to
shed), but excluding;
Any communal or service duct areas; and
Detached garages, sheds, greenhouses and non-permanent structures
Mr G disagreed and said their garage sits within their domestic plot of land and added that 
his garage is not detached, as it is attached to his neighbour's garage. 
The garage is detached from Mr and Mrs Gs house and so it wouldn't be included in the 
home emergency cover section of the insurance policy. The policy terms say that there is no 
cover for issues relating to detached garages so Im satisfied the claim also wouldnt be 
covered for this reason.
Mr G added that there is no evidence that the issue occurred in the garage and it is possible 
that the issue had occurred in the house itself, because this is where the circuit connects to.
Lost power to a circuit is covered by the policy but in this case as the cable is to his garage 
and is an armoured cable it is excluded from cover.
Although I understand Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed, I think that Aviva have fairly 
declined their claim.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and do not require Aviva to do anything 
more in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman