DRN-3945171
Complaint
Miss R has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says 
the payments were unaffordable.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss R and L2G had told us. And she thought that 
L2G hadnt done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So she didnt uphold Miss Rs 
complaint. Miss R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Rs complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss R 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Miss R was provided with a loan for £1,000 in December 2020. It had an APR of 1,013.2% 
and was to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £228.56, which meant the total amount to be 
repaid was £4,114.08. Miss R ended up paying the loan early.
L2G says it agreed to Miss Rs application after she provided details of her monthly income 
and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried 
out on Miss R. The information Miss R provided about her income and expenditure showed 
shed be able to make the repayments she was committing to. But it, in any event, adjusted 
Miss Rs income and expenditure information to account for what its checks showed and this 
still showed the required payments were affordable. L2G says, in these circumstances it was 
reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss R has said she was in financial difficulty. 
Ive carefully thought about what Miss R and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Miss Rs first loan with L2G. The information provided suggests Miss R was 
asked to provide details of her income and expenditure. Equally, L2G did carry out external 
checks and didnt simply rely on what it was told. 
L2G carried out a credit search which didnt show anything too alarming. There were a 
couple of historic issues  namely a county court judgement and a default but Miss Rs 
recent commitments were being relatively well maintained. And I think that even if Miss R 
had been asked more about the historic issues the reasons for this wont have stopped L2G 
from lending.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments appeared affordable and Miss Rs lack of any 
previous lending with L2G, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to proceed on the basis 
of the information it obtained as, on the face of things, it appeared to be accurate. 
I accept Miss Rs actual circumstances may not been reflected in the information she 
provided and the other information L2G obtained. But L2G could only make its decision 
based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending 
relationship and bearing in mind the circumstances, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve extended into L2G asking Miss R to provide her bank statements.
Equally its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender
did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding
to lend to Miss R - it carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like the 
information it was provided with didnt tell the whole story. L2G reasonably relied on this 
information and given its lack of history with Miss R, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
L2G to provide this loan.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss R. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman