DRN-2105780
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to the deposit of cash to 
his Barclaycard account on 2 December 2019.
What happened
Mr G said he went into the branch and paid in £3,500 to his Barclaycard account. Sometime 
later he became aware that the money hadnt been credited to that account. He raised the 
matter with Barclays who conducted a number of checks and having done so said they only 
had a record of a deposit of £500 to his bank account on that day. 
Barclays asked Mr G for his receipt, but he did not have it. Because of that Barclays said 
they were unable to assist him. Mr G was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so 
approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator 
thought that without evidence of the receipt he was unable to say that Barclays had done 
something wrong.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence shows that Mr G did go into the branch on 2 December. He did pay money in 
but Barclays record that as only £500, and that was to his bank account not his credit card 
account. The most obvious answer to the problem in cases where there is a dispute about 
what was deposited is to provide the receipt, which is precisely why receipts are provided. 
So, it is very unfortunate therefore that Mr G no longer has it and I can understand his 
frustrations.
But that doesnt mean that mistakes cant happen elsewhere and so Ive looked at what else 
Barclays have done to try and find this money. The branch undertook a full counter audit 
search from October to January. They also did a full system audit and could find no record of 
any Barclaycard details being entered into the system for that date. Barclays had also 
checked that the tills in the branch had balanced that particular day and they had. Barclays 
then raised an internal query with their Payment Department who reviewed all the daily 
cash reports between October and December along with rejected payments and were still 
unable to locate the deposit.
I can also see that following our Investigator issuing his view Barclays carried out a search of 
their suspense accounts and asked the branch to recheck their records, all of which were 
unsuccessful.
Mr G has asked if there is any CCTV, and that is a good point to make, but unfortunately by 
the time he made his complaint to Barclays the recordings were no longer available, and so 
they are not available to help me.
I make my decisions on the evidence which is available, and where evidence it is incomplete 
or lacking such as it is here, I base my decision on what is more likely to have happened in 
the light of the evidence which is available. And in this case I am satisfied that although Mr G 
feels he did pay money into his credit card account, I think he must be mistaken. The 
evidence from Barclays shows that all their checks have revealed that such a transaction 
didnt occur and without the receipt to support Mr Gs view, Im satisfied that its more likely 
than not that Mr G didnt make the deposit he thinks he did. So, I think Barclays have acted 
properly here and I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman