DRN-3748553
The complaint
Miss M complains that Charterhouse Claims Limited (CCL) didnt tell her that her redress 
would be made as a balance adjustment to her loan. 
What happened
In September 2021. Miss M instructed CCL to pursue a mis-sold loan claim against a 
business Ill call A.  Miss Ms claim was rejected by A but CCL referred her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service where Miss Ms complaint was partially upheld. The 
effect of their decision was A should waive fees and interest.
In May 2022 CCL sent Miss M an acceptance form for her to reject or accept an offer of 
£752.49. Miss M said she accepted the offer and waited for CCL to send her refund to her. 
After sending emails and making phone calls Miss M said she was told by CCL that she 
wouldnt receive any payment as A had used the redress to adjust the outstanding balance 
of her loan. Miss M said if shed known this she wouldnt have accepted As offer. She 
complained to CCL.
CCL said theyd told Miss M about the offer and that her balance would be adjusted. And 
that she could contact A directly if she wasnt satisfied with the outcome.
Miss M wasnt happy with CCLs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said CCL had made clear in their terms and conditions how redress could 
be paid. He also said theyd notified Miss M by email about the balance adjustment before 
she accepted the offer.
Miss M didnt agree and has asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see why Miss M is upset as she thought the offer would be refunded to her rather than 
her loan balance being adjusted. While I empathise with Miss M, for me to say CCL  must do 
something different I must first be satisfied that theyve done something wrong. I cant see 
that they have here which is why I wont be asking them to do anything else.
In September 2021, Miss M instructed CCL to pursue a mis-sold loan claim. And in doing so 
she would have agreed to their terms and conditions. So Ive considered these when making 
my decision. CCLs terms and conditions say:
You should be aware that compensation means benefit which you receive as a result of our
service, there may be situations where the compensation is credited to your loan balance, 
and you will still have to pay our fee.
Miss M complains that the paperwork sent to her by CCL led her to believe she would 
receive the offer from A as a payment.  But I can see that  at the end of April 2022, CCL 
sent Miss M an email, to the same email address as Miss M has given to us, that said the 
offer would be  used to reduce her outstanding loan balance.
In May 2022 I can see Miss M accepted the offer made by A of £752.49. The 
accompanying letter said that A had made an offer and that she needed to sign the 
acceptance form. It then said:
We will then forward your acceptance and follow up with A to ensure a quick 
resolution.
Neither the letter nor the acceptance form indicates that Miss M would be paid her offer 
direct rather than as already notified as an adjustment to her outstanding loan balance.
Miss M says CCL should do something different here. She wants the refunded interest
fees and charges paid to her. Ive thought about what Miss M has said. But its not for CCL to 
decide how A puts right her mis-sold loan complaint. I can only consider whether CCL has 
acted fairly and reasonably in how they handled Miss Ms claim with them. And I can see 
they made clear in their terms and conditions that any compensation could be used to offset 
any outstanding loan balance. And they made Miss M aware of this before she accepted the 
offer made by A. 
I know Miss M will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont think CCL has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman