DRN-2218278
The complaint
Ms B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc placed negative markers on her credit file, when
she ran into difficulties with a payment. She said HSBC had accepted that the payment
being late wasnt her fault.
What happened
Ms B said that shed been a customer of HSBC for more than a decade. Shed had a credit
card with HSBC for some time. About seven years ago, the card scheme operator (whose
symbol is shown on Ms Bs card) changed. Ms B said she kept making her payments the
same way, and there wasnt a problem until May 2019, when she was charged a late fee.
Ms B said that HSBC had investigated, and it had traced a payment she made within the due
date. So it paid back the late charge. The same thing happened in July, and HSBC
reimbursed the fee again. But Ms B said she was then turned down for another card, and
she thought that was because late payments showed on her credit file.
Ms B asked HSBC to take these marks off, and it said this was her fault, because she wasnt
making the payments to the right place. Ms B said HSBC had been taking the payments for
about six years, with no problems. And it hadnt even told her she needed to change how 
she paid when the first payment was delayed. Ms B didnt think this was fair.
HSBC said that Ms B was still paying the old card scheme operator, when she should be
paying the new one. But it said that wasnt why it had put late payment markers on her credit
file. HSBC said that Ms B hadnt paid at all for May, and underpaid in June. It knew it had
said something different when Ms B first approached it about this, but it said that was a
mistake. So HSBC thought that the data recorded on Ms Bs credit file was accurate, and it
wouldnt change it.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that the late payments
on Ms Bs credit file were an accurate reflection of how the account had been managed, and
she wouldnt ask HSBC to remove them. Ms B and our investigator then discussed the
fairness of recording missed payments on Ms Bs credit file, and the circumstances
surrounding this. They didnt agree, and the case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to partly 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
This complaint started because Ms B was rejected for a credit card with another 
company. She thought that was because of something HSBC had done.
I dont know why Ms B was rejected for further credit. Thats partly because I dont 
know the basis on which other lenders have made their decisions. Its also because 
Ms B hasnt chosen to share her credit file with us. Without sight of Ms Bs credit file, 
I dont know if there are other marks on there too, that might deter a business from 
lending to Ms B.
But HSBC should be able to show us what it has said to credit reference agencies 
about how Ms B manages her credit card account with it. So I asked HSBC to show 
us that. It has now done that, and I can see that there are no missed or late payment 
markers recorded for Ms Bs HSBC credit card.
So I think that means Ms B wasnt rejected for further credit because of any markers 
that HSBC has put on her credit file about a missed payment. It simply hasnt done 
that.
HSBC has, however, repeatedly sought to justify putting missed payment markers on  
Ms Bs credit file. It hasnt, apparently, checked whether it actually did this, before 
now.
I think that HSBC having insisted that it was fair to put markers on Ms Bs credit file, 
when it hadnt actually done so, has very significantly prolonged this complaint, and 
the stress to Ms B. Its also delayed her finding out what the real reason is behind her 
being turned down for other credit. Ms B has spent a very long time thinking that this 
happened because of something HSBC has done. Shes only finding out now that it 
didnt.
Because of that, I think that HSBC should make a payment of compensation to Ms B, 
to make up for the distress and inconvenience that this complaint has caused to her. 
I think it should pay her £100. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Ms B wrote to clarify the deadline for comments, then sent comments. HSBC wrote to accept 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B said she had asked HSBC, and it had agreed that it had marked her credit file for non-
payment. That was why she didnt get credit elsewhere. But she said if that wasnt right, she 
wanted to sue HSBC for moral and emotional damages, and wouldnt want to accept just 
£100. 
Ive explained in my provisional decision that HSBC has now confirmed it didnt mark Ms Bs 
credit file for late payment. So that wont be why she was turned down for a different card. 
And I explained that I thought HSBC giving Ms B wrong information about this significantly 
prolonged this complaint. But I also have to bear in mind that it was open to Ms B to check 
her credit file too. 
I still think that a payment of £100 is enough to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. If Ms B prefers to take legal action against HSBC, then that is of course entirely a 
matter for her. I will only note that the award Im proposing becomes binding on both sides if 
its accepted by Ms B. So she would need to reject this final decision, and the £100 payment 
from HSBC, if she wanted to take formal legal action instead.My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Ms B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman