DRN-3602928
The complaint
Ms J complained Tempus Financial Planning LLP failed in the advice service they provided 
to her. 
What happened
Ms J received pension assets of around £320,000 and sought financial advice. In 2015 Ms J 
was advised in respect of these pension assets. At this stage Ms J was not being advised by 
Tempus; albeit she saw the same adviser who later moved to Tempus. 
We have not been asked to consider any complaint against the firm responsible for the 
advice in 2015. The adviser moved to Tempus in the late summer/ early autumn of 2016.  
Ms J moved with the adviser. 
In 2015 a fact-find and risk assessment were completed and the advisers recommendations 
at that time were followed. Ms J went on to move her pension assets into a self-invested 
pension plan (SIPP) and to invest with Margetts Sentinel (Sentinel) in a multi-asset portfolio. 
Sentinel offer five different managed funds, each fund holding multiple assets involving a 
range of investments; and each fund being managed in-line with a specific risk approach. 
The funds are called defensive, growth, income, universal, and enterprise. Ms J came to be 
invested in different proportions across the five funds. The proportions reflecting a specified 
approach said to reflect her individual objectives and circumstances. My understanding is 
that Ms J was invested in-line with a moderately cautious portfolio profile.
Ms J tells us that in late 2016 (shortly after Tempus took over her advice), she chose to 
disinvest some of her funds, thus reducing her investments with Sentinel. Ms J says the 
adviser told her at the time, what she wanted to do was complex; Ms J chose to proceed. 
Her complaint does not relate to this activity. Ms J continued to be advised by Tempus.
Ms J complained to Tempus in the summer of 2019 and raised a number of concerns. Ms J 
says it was after she asked questions and expressed dissatisfaction that the adviser told her 
their advisory relationship would not be continuing. Tempus didnt uphold Ms Js complaint. 
Ms J referred her complaint to this service. At this stage we didnt receive anything from 
Tempus in reply to the investigators requests. Tempus went on to provide various 
documents to this service after the investigator had issued their view.
The investigator didnt uphold Ms Js complaint and set out his reasons. Ms J didnt agree, 
and her case was referred for an ombudsmans decision. I ensured the documents supplied 
by Tempus were shared with Ms J.
Ms J expressed concern that Tempus did not originally provide information to this service. 
When Ms J referred her complaint to this service, she provided us with a copy of Tempus 
final response letter as well as other material from Tempus. 
Provisional decision
On 6 June 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I indicated I didnt intend to uphold Ms Js 
complaint and I shared my thinking on this. 
Responses to provisional decision
Tempus accepts my provisional decision.
Ms J didnt accept my decision and provided further submissions and material. Following my 
review of her further submissions, we asked Tempus to provide some further information 
that Ms J considered relevant. Tempus did so and this was shared with Ms J.
This information included a copy of the Tempus Centralised Investment Proposition (CIP) 
document dated November 2016. Tempus provided a copy of the email sent by the adviser 
to Ms J in December 2016 attaching this information. The email was entitled Meeting Follow 
up. This email showed that files entitled Tempus CIP and a chart had been attached as 
documents to the email. The email reads:
It was good to meet you earlier and have a discussion around your current and future 
situation. I have attached a chart which shows the 5 Sentinel funds (I have included Efor 
comparison purposes) and the FTSE100 since September which is the month your funds 
were invested. I have also included the 2 main cautious sector averages as the Sentinel 
portfolio falls in between them in terms of volatility and risk. The chart shows that the 4 
growth funds have performed well and ahead of the FTSE100 over that period. The 
Defensive fund has done what it is meant to but you can see how the low return will average 
down the performance of the portfolio overall. The value of the Defensive fund would be 
demonstrated in the event of a significant market fall. If your risk profile were higher, you
would have less exposure to Defensive and more to the other funds. Also the Enterprise 
fund would be included. This would result in more volatility, more growth during upward 
movements and more loss when markets fall. I have passed on the points you raised 
regarding Tempus Connect to the developers:
1. With regard to your point about the individual fund showing a chart it does actually do 
that but it is barely visible this early on. For example, if you drill down to the growth 
fund and look carefully at the blue block you will see that the top edge does undulate 
slightly. This will become more pronounced as the historic unit price data increases 
and will in time visibly demonstrate the movement of each fund.
2. I have asked if the time out period can be extended
3. I have asked if we can remove the boxes on the home page that you do not want to 
use. I have also attached our Central Investment Proposition document which 
outlines our investment strategy and how we run it. This explains not only the 
options, but the depth in which we oversee the managers to protect our clients.
Ms J provided further comments and submissions in respect of the material shared and on 
her complaint. Ms J does not dispute this information and email were sent to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changing my thinking overall from that set out in my provisional decision and I am 
not upholding Ms Js complaint.Ms J posed a number of questions in her responses to my provisional decision. Whilst I have 
reflected on all Ms J has said, my role is to consider her complaint and reach a decision. In 
providing my provisional decision, I included information I hoped would assist, but ultimately 
my role is to determine the complaint by reference to what, in my opinion, is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. I am satisfied I have sufficient information 
to properly do this. I have not changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional 
decision. I am not upholding Ms Js complaint.
I have considered everything with care and given it the weight I consider appropriate. This 
included listening to Ms Js phone call with the investigator in July 2021. Ms J stressed she 
wanted this call listened to. I have not included everything I set out in my provisional decision 
in my final decision. I am also not including a summary of everything said and provided. I am 
not required to, and I hope the parties will understand I mean no discourtesy.
Im required, under DISP 3.6.4R, when considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of all the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Id like to stress this service is an alternative to the courts, and as such is intended to be an 
informal dispute resolution service. This service considers complaints on the facts and merits 
of each individual case. We are not the regulator, and ultimately, I dont accept that in the 
areas of complaint I have considered, Tempus did anything wrong or inherently unsuitable 
for Ms J, or that they ought to have done something differently. I havent identified any 
failings that caused Ms J loss, or there was any impact on Ms J due to a failure for which 
Tempus ought to be considered liable.
I continue to think some of Ms Js dis-satisfaction relates to matters in respect of a 
fundamental disagreement with the wider Tempus and Sentinel offering, and its 
management. I havent identified that Ms J was caused loss, or that there is anything for 
which Tempus ought to be considered liable for here.  
In general terms I am left with the impression, a significant proportion of Ms Js dis-
satisfaction arises from her belief Tempus CIP offering is inherently flawed, and this is linked 
her thinking they ought to have done more when it came to providing her with more options 
and allowing her greater involvement in the management of the funds and oversight.
As such Ive concluded some of Ms Js dis-satisfaction is that she considers there ought to 
be wider regulatory concerns around this model. This isnt something that is within the scope 
of my considerations. I dont agree the managed fund model proposition was so clearly 
flawed here that it was wrong for Ms J; nor have I been persuaded Ms J ought to have been 
more involved with, or informed about the ongoing detail of the management and oversight 
of Sentinel.
I have reflected on Tempus contact with this service and their apology and explanation 
about why they think our request for their file was missed. Whilst this felt unsatisfactory to 
Ms J and to Tempus, it is not something, I consider relevant to the issues I have needed to 
consider. I dont consider the delay in receiving information from Tempus meaningful. I am 
satisfied I have sufficient material to fairly consider this case and reach my decision. 
Responsibility for advice given in 2015Ms J referred a number of complaints about Tempus to this service. In summary she told us 
it was in respect of their conduct towards her when advising her from 2016 until May 2019. 
Ms J stresses that she considers it important to this complaint that she was advised by the 
same adviser in 2015 when they worked for a different business. And that when they moved 
to Tempus in 2016, Ms J was deemed to have carried over her client agreement on her 
move with the adviser.
I previously explained that I am only able to consider a complaint against Tempus from the 
time when Tempus became responsible for advising Ms J as a client, which I understand 
(and have not been corrected on) was around 1 September 2016.
Weve explained that if Ms J is unhappy with the adviser, advice and/ or service prior to this, 
this is not something Tempus are responsible for and as such a complaint would need to be 
made against the previous advice firm. It does not appear a complaint has been made 
against the earlier firm.
In response to my provisional decision Ms J repeats her belief that the novation with the 
existing terms is a critical issue. To repeat I was novated to Tempus under the same 
terms, there is therefore no distinction between the initial advice firm and Tempus, they 
are effectively the same. 
But that isnt right. There were two different regulated firms who provided regulated advice at 
different times on Ms Js pension assets. The earlier firm is still in operation and so any 
complaint for any advice/ service would need to be made to that firm. I have only considered 
Ms Js complaint against Tempus from the time Tempus took over regulatory responsibility 
for advising Ms J. 
Ive previously commented on the letter informing Ms J of her advisers move to Tempus, 
presenting Ms J with her options. In other words whether she wanted to remain as a client of 
the firm or move with the adviser. Ms J didnt sign a new client agreement and was told she 
would move to Tempus on the same terms. Ms J has gone to say the CIP information was 
only provided to her in December 2016, and so she thinks it falls outside of her letter from 
2015. Im not entirely clear on Ms Js concern here. 
If Ms J means the client agreement moved and Tempus were thus required to provide Ms J 
with the service as set out in the earlier client agreement, I agree. Tempus agree too, and I 
havent seen details of any complaint that I consider persuades me Tempus failed to comply 
with the terms of the earlier client agreement.
If Ms J means I am able to consider her complaint about the CIP because it didnt form part 
of the advice she was given in 2015. Then I agree I have been able to consider her 
complaint the CIP was fundamentally flawed and as such wrong for her to the extent I did in 
my provisional decision. But this doesnt mean I am making any finding about what she was 
given or told in 2015, this was prior to Tempus taking over responsibility for advising Ms J, 
and outside the parameters of this complaint.
Ms J stresses her client agreement (and terms of service) were transferred to Tempus. This 
is accepted. But this doesnt mean the responsibility for the financial advice (opening the 
SIPP and initial investment advice) given before the adviser transferred to Tempus, also 
transferred to Tempus with him. Once the adviser moved to Tempus, Ms J became a 
Tempus client. It was, in general terms, from this point Tempus were responsible for 
advising Ms J. A client agreement and a letter containing financial advice are usually two 
very different types of document. Ms J stresses:
Tempus said in their response to the complaint that the client agreement that was brought 
along  to Tempus was simply a continuation of the original agreement  and so there was 
neither any new additions or removal of existing items in the agreement. This is why there 
was not a necessity to have a new client agreement signed, as the original one was still in 
operation.
Theres enough available for me to understand that when the adviser moved to Tempus, it 
was on the basis that both Tempus and Ms J understood and agreed the terms under which 
Tempus and the adviser were bound to provide service to Ms J; and these were on the same 
terms as those agreed with the adviser at his previous firm. It was not intended, nor do I 
think any person ought to reasonably be expected to understand it to mean, the previous 
firm remained a party to the client agreement. Nor could it mean Tempus had been a party 
to an agreement made before Ms J was their client.
I havent seen anything that suggests to me Tempus dont accept they were subject to the 
requirements and expectations that came with being regulated financial advisers to Ms J. 
Tempus dont agree they acted in breach of them. Ms J takes a significant issue it appears 
to me, not actually with the client agreement, but with her wider submission that Tempus 
didnt meet some of the duties she considers are owed by a financial adviser to their client 
(or didnt meet them sufficiently).
In general terms I dont accept a client agreement and terms of service ought reasonably or 
would usually to have contained the type of detailed information about financial products 
suggested by Ms J. Ms J was being provided with regulated financial advice, and the 
requirements around this are set out by the regulator. I consider the main thrust of this area 
of complaint is contained in the matters I have addressed as Issue A. 
In my provisional decision, I considered the primary thrust of each complaint in turn, which in 
general terms follows the format proposed and adopted by Ms J and the investigator. It 
hasnt been suggested this was inappropriate and this is the approach I am using. I am not 
able to expand areas of complaint beyond those originally complained of and which Tempus 
have had the opportunity to investigate.
Ms J made wide-ranging criticism of Tempus service and has been offered opportunity to 
provide any information or material she considers relevant.
Issue A: Tempus failed to provide Ms J with the right service or ongoing independent 
scrutiny in respect of her invested pension funds because of what they advised
I am not upholding this complaint. There is nothing that has led me to conclude the use of 
Sentinel funds for the investment of Ms Js pension assets was unsuitable for her. Nor have I 
been persuaded Tempus service by the use of the Sentinel funds to Ms J was 
fundamentally flawed or in breach of their obligations.
Simply because there were other investment options available, doesnt mean Ms J was 
unsuitably advised or invested. I dont accept Tempus had a duty to explain to Ms J each 
and every available option in general terms. Generally speaking, theirs was a duty to provide 
suitable advice. I dont accept there is persuasive evidence they failed to meet this duty.
Nor do I accept Tempus duty extended to a full detailed explanation of every investment 
held in every fund to the extent Ms J appears to suggest. On balance I think there was 
sufficient information available on the underlying investments held in each fund and I dont accept, based on everything provided, Tempus unreasonably failed to provide answers to 
information sought by Ms J.
There is no disagreement Tempus used an investment approach involving a proportion of 
Ms Js investment being held across Sentinel managed funds. Its not suggested the 
investments were unsuitable for Ms J or that this caused her a loss. The underlying 
investments held in each fund were not concealed or linked to or owned by Tempus or 
Sentinel. And a range of underlying investments made up each fund in line with the risk and 
investment objective approach of that fund, and as selected by the fund manager.
I dont accept the use of Sentinel funds by Tempus establishes sufficient basis to say Ms J 
was treated unfairly or that this was a substantive failure in the service Tempus were 
required to provide. There have been regulatory requirements where advisers use a fund 
management offering, and where there is an intrinsic relationship between advisers and the 
managers for example. Much of the thrust of such regulatory concern has been to address 
the situation where such links are not apparent or in situations where there cant be proper 
due diligence as esoteric and underlying high risk investments are obscured from scrutiny. 
The offering here does not bear those hallmarks. The management and terms of Tempus 
and Sentinel, as well as the management of funds and underlying (mainstream) investments 
held were, so far as I have been able to see, sufficiently clear.
Ms J considers Tempus acted in a way that she describes as non-complaint with their written 
terms. Ms J says this was because they failed to supply to her with a rigorous ongoing 
review process. I dont accept this complaint is made out.
I think this is an extension of Ms Js complaint that Tempus concentrated entirely on Sentinel 
Funds for the investment of her pension arrangements, which, by implication, she suggests 
was wrong. Ms J thinks Tempus approach was fundamentally flawed and that Tempus 
ought to have provided alternative options to Sentinel in their reviews and to her. Ms J 
considers its inherently wrong for Tempus to use the Sentinel funds in the way they did for 
her. I dont accept this submission.   
Ms J stresses her concern the relationship and management of Sentinel was overly linked 
with Tempus and suggests this undermined any oversight. The management structure and 
terms of Sentinel and Tempus were not opaque, and Ms J was aware of the model and links 
between Tempus and Sentinel. I dont accept the use of fund managers instead of the 
adviser in selecting underlying investments here is a fundamentally flawed. Im not 
persuaded on what I have seen that any links meant Ms J wasnt receiving the service she 
ought to have done, or that this caused her any loss.
I accept Ms J does not appear to have been informed about more detailed matters in respect 
of the fund management, but I havent seen anything that persuades me Tempus failed by 
not providing the level of detail Ms J thinks she ought to have been provided with.
To ensure advice was suitable for Ms J, the adviser needed to know Ms J sufficiently. This 
includes for example understanding Ms Js financial position, objectives, and her attitude to 
and appetite for investment risk (including her capacity for loss). It hasnt been suggested 
these requirements werent met. I dont accept that in general terms Tempus were precluded 
from using as they did here, a portfolio of different risk level managed funds, to reflect the 
proportion of exposure to risk and growth they assessed as suitable for Ms J.
Tempus offered a number of different approaches for clients. This is set out in their CIP 
document. I dont see anything intrinsically wrong in their offering, and Ms J was provided 
with sufficient information to have understood how Tempus approach applied to her and her 
investments. The advice letter provided to Ms J in 2015 demonstrates in general terms Ms J had been informed of the investment approach, the underlying relationship and structure and 
how it was proposed this would apply to her. I have not made any specific findings about 
what happened in 2015, as Ms J was advised by a different firm at that time. But the 
information from December 2016 supports my thinking about her knowledge and 
understanding. The email from December 2016 also supports my thinking that not only was 
Ms J was aware of Tempus approach, but she took an active interest and provided her own 
feedback and opinion. I havent seen anything to suggest Ms J asked Tempus to provide her 
with an alternative investment strategy or options.
After we shared the email and material from 2016, Ms J complained that Tempus ought to 
have checked her understanding of the information. I dont accept this complaint is made 
out. Based on the contents of the email I am satisfied Ms J and the adviser had discussed 
matters in some detail, and on balance, it would have been reasonable for the adviser to 
have felt assured here that Ms J had understood sufficiently. Indeed Ms J had made 
requests for changes in the presentation of information and did not show reluctance in 
identifying areas where she wanted more information.
I understand Ms J thinks it was wrong that Tempus didnt provide her with fund or investment 
alternatives over the years. But that doesnt mean Tempus did something wrong. Their 
approach meant Ms Js pension funds were diversely invested in multiple assets, by using 
the proportional spread across their five named managed Funds. Failing to regularly 
change investments or the spread of fund allocations, doesnt mean a client is unsuitably 
invested. 
In Ms Js call with our investigator she was concerned about the CIP being created in 2008. 
Weve explained this doesnt mean her investment portfolio was started in 2008 and hasnt 
changed since then, as it appears Ms J seemed concerned about. Each fund had a different 
name and approach, like the defensive fund. Each of the five funds was aligned to a 
specified approach in respect of investment strategy and risk. Within that model, each fund 
manager was open to selecting a broad range of underlying investments to meet the 
strategy and risk profile of that fund. The adviser (Tempus) then selected a proportion of a 
clients overall investment to be split between the different funds to reflect the clients own 
needs and profile.
Based on what Ive seen, Tempus carried out what their business model set out they would 
do. They invested Ms J across five funds, with the proportion of the amount invested in each 
of those funds as determined by her risk profile. Each fund had a selected investment 
manager to manage the fund and this was laid out in Tempus investment strategy material.
Ive seen what Ms J says about one of the fund managers and/or funds not performing in 
line with the fund objective, over a specific period and the manager not being replaced soon 
enough. This didnt mean the relevant fund wasnt being managed and overseen, even on a 
temporary basis. If Ms J continues to believe there was a wider regulatory failing in the 
running of the fund and fund managers, this is a matter better directed to the regulator. Even 
if there was enough for me to consider a fund or manager wasnt managed in line for some 
time with the intended objectives, I am not persuaded Ms J was caused any loss as a result 
of something not being done right, or that Tempus ought reasonably to have been required 
to do something differently.
Ms J doesnt accept my thinking. I understand she thinks she wasnt told enough about the 
funds, she doesnt think Tempus were able to independently scrutinise the Sentinel offering 
and she continues to think Tempus ought to have reviewed other products for her rather 
than doing nothing after her initial investment. I have not changed my thinking.I havent seen full copies of letters sent to Ms J after Tempus started advising Ms J, 
including any in respect of yearly reviews; albeit I have seen an extract apparently from 
2019. I previously invited Ms J and Tempus to provide anything further they consider I ought 
to take into account. 
I am satisfied on what I have seen that Tempus were aware of Ms Js individual needs and 
profile. I am comfortable Ms J was informed about Tempus approach, and what this meant. 
In reaching this thinking Ive taken into account that Ms J demonstrated an active interested 
in what was happening with her investments and the funds and raised questions and 
requests and made suggestions. 
In their response to Ms Js complaint, Tempus say Ms J attended all five of the bi-annual 
seminars they arranged for clients, where fund managers attended and there were usually 
question and answer sessions. Tempus also said Ms J had review meetings in June and 
December 2016, April 2017, November 2018, and May 2019.
Ms J has gone on to say the content of the seminars was mainly social. Ms J provides the 
example of the last seminar she attended where the guest speaker over ran and so updates 
on pension portfolios had to be abandoned. Ive seen that Tempus say that on this occasion 
they arranged for Ms J to speak to relevant people directly, after the speaker finished. Ms J 
also suggests she doesnt think all seminars were attended by fund managers or that 
detailed information was provided to clients at seminars, including on the performance of 
funds. These seminars were part of a wider additional client offering by Tempus and not part 
of the direct personal advice provided to Ms J. The seminars form part of the wider picture 
that support my conclusion Ms J took an active and involved interest in the management and 
investment of her pension funds. 
I am satisfied there was enough provided to Ms J for her to understand Tempus used the 
managed funds provided by Sentinel, albeit there were other investment options. That the 
Sentinel involved an investment committee and a strategy to ensure managers for the funds 
were accountable regularly for their choices, strategy, and performance. 
If Ms J continues to consider the business model inherently wrong or flawed, this is a matter 
for the regulator. I am looking at whether Tempus did something wrong or unfair in respect of 
Ms J. There is not enough for me to conclude the use of the CIP and Sentinel was so 
inherently wrong, that Ms J must have been unsuitably advised; indeed theres nothing to 
suggest the investments made were unsuitable for Ms J or that she suffered any detriment 
or loss linked to anything being done wrong. Whilst the defensive fund didnt meet quarterly 
objectives for a period of time, it then made gains in following quarters. 
I havent seen enough to know whether the proportions of Ms Js investment were changed 
over the years. However there was regular contact with Ms J and on balance I think its more 
likely than not, Ms J would have let Tempus know if circumstances changed (such as 
employment or income). Nothing further was provided on this issue. 
There were other approaches available and Ive seen Tempus offering also refers to a 
Discretionary managed portfolio. In my provisional decision I provided further information 
from Tempus more recent literature on their offerings. I noted that Tempus considered this 
portfolio their more expensive options and that this investment approach is most suitable for 
investments of at least £1 million. I reflected that Ms J didnt meet that criteria. 
Ms J said shed never been told this approach was most suitable for a certain level of funds. 
Ms J says that if she had been, she wouldnt have chosen her first advice firm in 2015.I have looked at the CIP material provided to Ms J in at least December 2016. This does not 
suggest a most appropriate fund value for the discretionary offering available at the time. 
The document does however fully explain the approaches available and that will be used. It 
also explains the process if any adviser recommends any mainstream investment outside of 
the CIP approach. The managed portfolio approach was offered as a cheaper investment 
solution. Whilst the earlier material doesnt suggest a minimum value for investment funds 
for any particular approach, again, this doesnt mean Tempus did anything wrong. 
I dont intend to make any finding in respect of Ms Js original advice firm, or her choice of 
firm. These are not matters that fall to be considered under a complaint against Tempus. I 
have seen previous reference as to why the adviser might have been known to Ms J. This 
doesnt bear any relevance to the complaint I have needed to decide.
My understanding is Ms J also considers she didnt receive suitable or appropriate ongoing 
reviews because if the reviews had been suitable, then Tempus ought to have done 
something differently. It isnt clear to me what Ms J thinks Tempus ought to have done 
differently for her, save for her general submissions around offering other unspecified 
choices and arranging annual reviews before she did. 
Tempus were required to consider annually whether her investments were held in a way that 
was suitable for her, but it hasnt been suggested her investments were unsuitable only that 
the investment model was flawed. Ms J has suggested my provisional decision concluded 
that Tempus ought to have provided information to her about other funds. But thats not right. 
In any event, I am not persuaded Ms J didnt, or ought not to have reasonably understood 
other options were available.
I have seen Ms J considers the annual reviews were inherently flawed because she wasnt 
told about problems with the Sentinel defensive fund. This is part of Issue B.
Issue B: Tempus presided over a lack of transparency with Ms J regarding difficulties in the 
Sentinel Defensive Fund, between early 2018- May 2019
Ms J thinks the Sentinel Defensive Fund experienced problems and thinks this has been 
admitted. Ms J says she was impacted because at the relevant time she held a significant 
percentage of her investment in the Sentinel Defensive fund. Ms J considers Tempus ought 
to have communicated difficulties with the Sentinel Defensive fund to her.
I dont think this is accurate. I dont think its accepted the defensive fund had any 
fundamental or substantive problems or difficulties. Tempus position is that that although the 
fund didnt meet the performance objectives for a period, it then exceeded the performance 
objectives for a time thereafter. Such performance not being indicative of a wider problem or 
flaw, but something that might happen when investing and was considered as part of the 
quarterly fund reviews.
Tempus say performance and fund information was readily available. It isnt accepted there 
were inherent concerns in the offering and fund, and its suggested the appropriate level of 
scrutiny, oversight and review was in place.
Ms J was sufficiently aware of how Tempus was involved in the oversight of Sentinel funds. I 
am not clear how Ms J says she was unreasonably impacted to her detriment by not 
knowing what was happening with the detail of the management of the Sentinel Defensive 
fund at particular times. I am not persuaded this part of her complaint is made out.
Its accepted that part of Ms Js investment fluctuated in value, but I havent seen anything 
that persuades me there was anything unusual about why the defensive fund (and manager) failed to meet its performance objectives over the shorter term. Not such as to make me 
think Tempus did something wrong.
Ms J acknowledges there were times of fluctuating performance, and says she appreciates 
that investment performance can vary. I havent been able to identify where Ms J has been 
impacted in any way detrimentally, other than in respect of short-term performance. It would 
not be reasonable to expect any investment to come with short and long term guaranteed 
continual growth. 
Ms J told the investigator after he issued his view I always said I couldnt have losses 
ideally but I think she accepts and understands that this cant be guaranteed with 
investment. Albeit by ensuring a clients appetite and capacity for investment risk and loss 
are properly understood, can assist with the recommendation of an appropriate portfolio. 
Here Miss J was recommended to invest over multiple assets and held a number of assets 
in the defensive fund, which would usually be considered appropriate for the more cautious 
investor. But investment performance cant be guaranteed, and this service will rarely 
consider a complaint based solely around performance. I dont think performance is at the 
centre of any of Ms Js complaints.
Tempus used a spread to reflect Ms Js risk profile and in general terms it would appear she 
didnt disagree she was properly considered moderately cautious. I dont consider based on 
what Ive seen, Ms J ever expressed she had no capacity for loss, this would make investing 
unsuitable. 
Pension investments often involve medium or long-term planning, and this can enable 
inevitable fluctuations in value to be managed. Ms J thinks shed spoken to Tempus about 
her age and the need to start to disinvest. Ms J told our investigator shed decided what she 
wanted to do, but said she wanted the help of an adviser. I havent seen any complaint that 
Ms J feels Tempus fails to act on her instructions or that she was unsuitably invested.
The defensive fund was the fund which offered the least amount of risk. This did not mean it 
was risk free, or that performance would not fluctuate at all. But the structure of the asset 
classes, in general terms, the investments, held within the defensive fund had been 
purposely arranged to withstand large fluctuations in the market.
I previously set out some information on the Tempus and Sentinel approach and the 
involvement Id usually see the retail client (here Ms J) would have. I dont intend to repeat 
all of this.
With Tempus and Sentinel it was set out that the investment committee were to provide the 
oversight and were also to be involved in setting each funds requirements and keeping 
these under review. This is not the type of exercise Id expect to see Ms J involved in. 
Ongoing (quarterly) reviews of the funds with the fund manager, were set out to be part of 
the management, and it was said these might, as happened here, lead to a fund going on 
review, if it underperformed over a period against the requirements set. Going on review 
here doesnt mean there is anything fundamentally wrong or that the fund manager has done 
something wrong necessarily. It appears to me here the manager was put under review, but 
that Ms J and Tempus dont agree about other aspects of what happened, or what Ms J says 
ought to have happened.
A fund might be put under review due to a wider concern or investigation, and this might 
come with a duty or expectation for investors to be informed. I dont accept this was the case 
here. Here, my understanding is the defensive fund was put under review because for a 
period in time it did not meet the investment committees requirements for performance. This resolved when the defensive fund went on to outperform requirements, on other words, over 
time the fluctuations in performance moved in favour of improved performance. 
As Tempus explained in their response to Ms Js complaint, it would be unrealistic for the 
Investment Committee to expect a fund manager to consistently outperform at all times. I 
dont think its unreasonable to acknowledge there are likely to be periods of under-
performance which the Committee will need to understand more about. 
The loss or replacement of a fund manager is again something I would not expect a client/ 
investor to be involved in, nor does it mean something is inherently flawed or wrong. My 
understanding is that there was temporary management of a fund in place, for a time, prior 
to a new dedicated fund manager being appointed. Again, in general terms I dont think this 
is necessarily wrong.
Tempus told us the Investment Committee minutes document if a fund is put on review and 
these are always available to clients. When a manager goes on review, they say clients are 
not automatically informed as a manager could come off review if things improve; but all 
clients are informed if a manager is given notice and replaced. Ive seen the detailed 
explanation provided to Ms J in Tempus response to her complaint on this aspect.
I understand Ms J disagrees with Tempus on this. She doesnt think the quarterly minutes of 
the Investment Committee along with the fund managers presentations and due diligence 
questionnaires are published for clients on their website. Ms J accepts if this was accurate, 
she would not have been justified in saying the minutes werent made available. Ms J says 
the link Tempus provided us doesnt provide these items and she let us know what the link 
showed her. It appears this webpage also includes a sign in page for investors and advisers. 
It isnt clear to me if Ms J has tried signing in, but I dont need to consider this issue further. 
The webpage also links to at least some quarterly commentaries from quarter four 2019 to 
quarter three 2020.
I havent been persuaded the Defensive fund suffered significant problems or difficulties; I do 
accept its performance and management was put on review. I dont accept it can be 
reasonably said Tempus failed to be transparent about this. In any event, Im not persuaded 
Ms J suffered any consequential loss or any impact for which Tempus ought to be liable.
Both the regulator and industry body (Personal Finance Society) have been clear on the 
need for positive obligations on an adviser when it comes to advice and the use of forms of 
fund management. But here, the situation lacks the characteristics that might usually be 
expected to raise concern, as I accept there is evidence of due diligence and ongoing 
review. I dont accept something has gone wrong which can be linked to any insufficient 
reasonable investigation on the part of Tempus. 
This service has seen model portfolio cases for example, where theres little evidence the 
adviser found out what a fund manager would typically invest in for a certain attitude to risk. 
Tempus approach here was a little different, as the adviser dealt with the apportionment of 
the investment across the various funds, this meant there was more knowledge and 
oversight, rather than an attempt to distance the adviser. Through the use of multi-asset 
mainstream investments within the managed funds, this might usually be expected to spread 
risk thus offering greater protection against loss. Theres no suggestion here of any attempt 
to obscure either the underlying investment or avoid regulatory responsibility here, which 
might be characteristic of where there would be concern.
Ms J continues to believe that the defensive fund failed to perform, and the Investment 
Committee failed to put the fund on review for six quarters, and they ought to have put it on 
review earlier. Ms J has highlighted that the Investment Committee say (and Tempus outline this in their response letter to Ms J), that managers are placed under review if they 
underperform their benchmark in the most recent consecutive quarters and the last 12 
months. Tempus say the decision to remove the previous defensive fund manager was 
taken within two quarters of this point and they dont consider this means the Investment 
Committee delayed acting. 
There is inconsistency here, but as I dont conclude, based on what I have seen, Ms J 
suffered a loss or detriment, Tempus ought to be considered liable for. If there is an issue 
around failures by the Investment Committee to follow their own terms of operation, this 
might be wider issue for the regulator. I dont consider this to be part of the regulated 
activities which I am able to consider as part of this complaint. This ought not to be 
understood to be a recommendation that matters ought to be referred to the regulator. Thats 
not a matter for me.
Having taken everything into account I dont accept Tempus did anything wrong here and I 
dont uphold this aspect of Ms Js complaint. Ms J has suggested my provisional decision 
confirms Tempus should have provided additional information on the Defensive fund 
including the status of the Investment Fund manager. Thats not quite right.
Tempus say funds, managers and reviews are all also matters that would also have been 
discussed at the six-monthly investment seminars Tempus provides for clients. These 
included an overview by the Director, individual presentations by the fund managers and a 
Q&A session. Tempus believe Ms J attended most if not all of these whilst a client. Ive seen 
Ms J refers to having attended a number of regular events. Ms J says fund managers didnt 
attend every seminar.
In addition, Tempus say they discussed risk, funds, and performance with Ms J, and theyve 
told us this included on the following dates:
13/12/16: Meeting between Ms J and Tempus where risk was discussed
02/11/17: Fund and risk assessment with emails sent on 02/11/17 and 15/11/17
20/11/17: Risk profile questionnaire completed by Ms J
21/11/17: Risk assessment and switch letter posted which Ms J signed and returned
05/10/19: Risk discussed during meeting between Ms J and Tempus
Ms J thinks this demonstrates inconsistency. She has stressed she doesnt think seminars 
always contained the amount of information she wanted to receive, particularly as she says 
guest speakers would sometimes over run. Ive provided my thinking around the seminars 
already. These were additional offerings. These were supplementary and not provided as 
any replacement for the annual review.
Ms J also notes she didnt have a review on 5/10/2019 as she says Tempus had terminated 
their advice service to her by this date.
Issue C: The annual client reviews ought to have been arranged by Tempus, but were often 
requested by Ms J
Ms J thinks she ought not have been the person to prompt her annual reviews, she thinks 
Tempus ought to have contacted her. It isnt clear to me if Tempus agree Ms J requested 
them, but even if she did, that doesnt mean Tempus did anything wrong. 
Regular reviews were part of the service, and these were completed. I dont consider 
Tempus to have been at fault if it was Ms J who prompted or arranged them. My 
understanding is that in addition to other contact and seminar attendances, regular yearly review meetings took place. Tempus referred to them taking place in June and December 
2016, April 2017, November 2018, and May 2019. I have not been corrected on this.
I accept that in addition to these dates Ms J attended seminars and also was in some level 
of ongoing contact with Tempus. There is no suggestion Tempus didnt provide annual 
reviews when requested, and I dont accept it can be said to be inherently wrong that Ms J 
asked for the reviews, instead of Tempus inviting Ms J for her annual review. The reviews 
themselves appear to have been conducted on a reasonably regular basis.
Ms Js complaint about her annual reviews, has the implication that the content of the 
reviews was unsatisfactory. But this is to the limited extent she says Tempus ought to have 
offered her other investments other than using the managed Sentinel funds. And by she 
suggests Temp they ought to have told her about when the defensive fund didnt meet 
investment objectives, or was put on review, or when a fund manager was on review, or 
changed. Ms J confirmed these being the grounds for this complaint when she spoke to the 
investigator after he issued his view.
I have considered these aspects at Issues A and B. I invited Ms J to clarify if she considers 
there are other aspects to the original complaint, she made to Tempus about her annual 
reviews which I have not considered and to provide any further information or material. I am 
not able to consider new complaints which havent had the opportunity to be considered by 
Tempus. 
Ms J suggested in the phone call with the investigator that she thought the content and 
quality of her yearly reviews was in issue and that Tempus were potentially hiding things. 
Ive previously explained these might reasonably be perceived as complaints that have not 
been put Tempus, save to the extent they are included in Issues A- F. 
I have not been provided with copies of annual review information, notes, or letters. I have 
carefully reflected on the substance of the complaints made to this service, and I dont 
consider I need the annual review documents to decide these complaints fairly. In response 
to my provisional decision Ms J has repeated she thinks there were considerable gaps 
between reviews, and she remains unhappy she instigated some of the reviews. If Ms J has 
further complaints about the advice provided annually, such complaints would need to be 
made first to Tempus.
Issue D: Tempus improperly ceased their advisory relationship with Ms J
Here Ms J appears to believe that because she was highlighting things being done wrong, 
Tempus took against her. She says that between May to August 2019 she communicated on 
a number of occasions with Tempus. I dont believe I have seen these communications. I 
have not been corrected on this. Ms J tells us she had to do these communications to obtain 
information.
Im not entirely clear what Ms J considers herself to have been uncovering. Ive seen she 
has mentioned Tempus having a close relationship with the investment managers of the 
Sentinel Funds. But the connection between the two was not concealed. Their public 
document on their investment proposition sets out the relationship and that Tempus is 
involved in the oversight of the management of the funds.
Ms J says that it was after she brought her issues to the attention of Tempus verbally in May 
2019, that Tempus terminated their advice service and professional relationship with Ms J. 
I havent seen anything that makes me think Tempus were not able to cease advising Ms J. 
In the same way Ms J was free to cease having Tempus advise her. Its not my role to say whether Tempus acted unlawfully or not, thats a matter for the Courts. My role is to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I tend to think the relationship had irretrievably broken down between Ms J and Tempus, and 
as such it doesnt appear unreasonable that Tempus chose to cease the ongoing client and 
adviser relationship. In general terms, it is a matter for a business to choose if they are 
willing to continue a client relationship, unless there is a discriminatory element. Theres 
nothing that suggests to me Ms J was left in an unreasonably vulnerable position but 
Tempus choice here.
For completeness I have seen what Ms J has told us about the Investment Seminar in May 
2019. Tempus say the decision to cease advising Ms J was not connected to her desire to 
ask questions at the seminar in 2019. They say in respect of this that although the speaker 
over ran (which appears to be agreed), and so Ms J couldnt ask her questions in front of the 
seminar group, Ms J had been taken to speak to the person from Sentinel about fund 
management personally the same day.
Ms J feels Tempus response to her complaint was unfair. Ms J says that through Tempus 
pointing out that after the seminar she had sent over 30 emails to Tempus, including some 
with multiple questions, they are making a negative implication about her in their response. I 
havent seen these emails and as such have not reached any conclusion on what they may 
or may not have contained; albeit Ms J says a number were chasing replies. However the 
manner in which this contact is referred to by Ms J and Tempus, tends to support, on 
balance, my conclusion, the relationship had soured.
However, Ive also seen that after Ms J complained, she was unhappy with the way she felt 
perceived and how timescales for correspondence were set by Tempus. This service isnt 
able to consider complaint handling generally. I hope parties feel reassured I have not been 
influenced by any of the concerns raised about what took place at this time in respect of 
communications and how parties may have been perceived. 
Issue E: Important advice on the financial implications of holding a self-invested pension 
plan (SIPP) were not provided to Ms J
Ms J complains she wasnt told of the financial protection available under the regulators 
scheme, nor of its limits. Ms J hasnt indicated if she thinks this caused her loss or detriment. 
The main thrust of this complaint seems to me to relate to what she was told when she was 
first advised to start her SIPP. This took place in 2015, and was not advised by Tempus, so I 
havent been able to consider a complaint about what happened when she started her SIPP.
To assist, I previously noted Id seen documentation provided by Tempus included reference 
to documents sent to Ms T in 2015, and that refers to information about the FSCS protection. 
But I havent considered any complaint on this, as I cant. If there is a complaint about the 
initial advice to start a SIPP, this would need to be made to the relevant business and 
considered by them.
It hasnt been made clear if Ms J thinks she raised questions about any protections around 
her SIPP after Tempus came to advise her, or whether this was something that had been 
considered in reviews. I previously highlighted what the investigator said about any 
investments/ assets held in Ms Js SIPP, remaining in her name. I doesnt appear to me this 
part of Ms Js complaint has been significantly pursued after the view or my provisional 
decision were issued.Issue F: Tempus improperly permitted Ms Js contract (and terms) with her previous adviser 
to be moved and replaced by one with themselves
Its agreed Ms Js adviser moved from working with one firm to Tempus. Ive seen a blank 
copy of the pro forma letter said to have been sent to clients in July 2016. This sets out that 
the clients adviser hoped to continue as her adviser and if Ms J was content with this, she 
didnt need to do anything as she would be transferred as a client from around 1 September 
2016. The letter says she would hear from Tempus after the move.
Ms J thinks she ought to have received documentation from Tempus at the time of transfer. 
She doesnt accept she received a client agreement at the time. Ms J says she was only 
provided with a copy of the 2018 version after she complained in 2019.
Tempus said in their response to Ms J, the client agreement and terms originally agreed with 
Ms J and the original advice firm moved to being held between Ms J and Tempus. As there 
was a continuation of the original agreement and terms, Tempus dont think there a need to 
have a new client agreement signed.
I dont think Tempus were wrong here. Ms J was offered the opportunity to remain with the 
original firm, or move with her adviser to Tempus, on the same terms as the original client 
agreement shed signed in 2015. Ms J could of course, also have, terminated the 
relationship. I think Ms J was informed of what was happened and her options, and was 
dealt with fairly, and I dont accept her rights were dealt with unfairly or unreasonably. I think 
it was sufficiently clear that the terms of her advisory relationship remained unchanged. 
So whether or not Tempus provided a copy of their client agreement in 2016 to Ms J, I dont 
accept Tempus did anything wrong, or caused Ms J any loss or detriment. I accept the 
continuance of the relationship and the actions of Tempus and Ms J indicated their joint 
affirmation and acceptance of the terms continuing. I dont think it would be unreasonable for 
Ms J to have asked for any clarification about this at the time. I havent seen anything that 
makes me think Tempus failed to give information on their understanding of their client 
agreement to Ms J when requested in 2019. 
Ms J referred to data protection requirements when speaking to our investigator about why 
she thought Tempus had erred in failing to provide a new client agreement in 2016. I 
previously indicated I wasnt clear on what Ms J meant about this or what she was dis-
satisfied by under this head of complaint but didnt receive anything substantive on this 
issue. I havent seen anything that persuades me to uphold a complaint on this issue.
For completeness
Ms J told the investigator in July 2021 we ought to have obtained copies of her annual 
review statements. The investigator didnt consider these were necessary for him to have 
reached his view. Ms J has not provided copies of any annual review correspondence or 
advice to this service.
I indicated previously I didnt consider I required copies of any annual review or further 
communications to decide the complaints I have identified. But I afforded the opportunity to 
Ms J or Tempus to provide these if they considered them relevant. And I also invited Ms J or 
Tempus to let me know if they thought I was wrong about this. I have not had this material 
provided to me or received any representations on why it is felt any annual review 
documentation is relevant to the complaints before me.
I previously indicated I hadnt identified any loss caused to Ms J, nor any reasonable impact 
for which Tempus ought to be considered liable. As part of this I set out my understanding that much of the thrust of Ms Js complaint, was that she wasnt told information when she 
thought she ought to have been. And I explained I didnt consider this raised an issue around 
any award for distress and inconvenience. Overall I thought information had been sufficiently 
provided and there were regular opportunities where further information was made available. 
Nor did I think it could it be said that a person was distressed when they didnt know the 
information they say was distressing. I accept later knowledge can cause shock and 
distress. But I dont conclude this was the situation here. Im also not persuaded by Mr Js 
assertion she was actively denied information by Tempus or professionally failed by them.
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Ms Js complaint about Tempus Wealth LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman