DRN-4036749
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly 
avoided their home insurance policy and declined their claim after valuables were stolen 
from their home.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr and Mrs M made a claim under their home insurance policy with RSA after 
their home was burgled. A bolted-in safe containing many of Mr and Mrs Ms valuables was 
stolen. 
RSA asked Mr and Mrs M for information about the stolen items. Mr and Mrs M provided a 
list of items lost and a jewellers valuation for some of the items.
RSA determined that the value of the items was higher than the amount declared by Mr and 
Mrs M when they renewed their policy in October 2019 and in subsequent years. Mrs M said 
shed failed to notice the sum insured had been set at £40,000 when renewing the policy. 
She said the jewellers valuation (in 2018) had been carried out to obtain the current value of 
items inherited from a relative, so she could pay her siblings their share.
RSA decided to avoid Mr and Mrs Ms policy with effect from October 2019. It refunded Mr 
and Mrs M the premiums theyd paid from 2019 less the amount it had already paid out for 
the claim.
Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint with RSA, but it maintained its position, so they referred 
the matter to our service.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 February 2023 where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs M I have considered all of their points, even if Ive not 
addressed each of them individually. Ive focused on what I believe is most relevant to the 
outcome of their complaint.
From what Ive been told, Mr and Mrs M initially took out a home insurance policy with RSA 
in 2015. RSA says Mr and Mrs M failed to disclose material information about the value of 
their valuables when they renewed the policy in October 2019. So, it avoided their policies 
back to that date. 
RSA has told us it concluded Mr and Mrs M made a careless misrepresentation. Our 
investigator referred to the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) when reaching his outcome. 
However, CIDRA doesnt apply if a consumer gives a statement of opinion rather than a 
statement of fact. The cost of replacing Mr and Mrs Ms valuables would vary depending on 
the opinion of the person assessing the cost. So, I dont think CIDRA is relevant here. 
Instead, Ive needed to base my findings on whether or not RSA has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy had a total valuables limit of £40,000 with a single item limit of £3,000.
Valuables is defined in the policy as jewellery (including costume jewellery), articles of or 
containing gold, silver or other precious metals, cameras (which include video cameras, 
camcorders and digital cameras), binoculars, watches, furs, paintings and other works of art, 
collections of stamps, coins and medals.
During RSAs assessment of Mr and Mrs Ms claim, it came to light that the stolen items 
were of considerably higher value than the £40,000 stated on the policy schedule. Mr and 
Mrs M say they inherited a number of valuable items in 2018 and 2019. They provided RSA 
with a jewellers valuation for 24 of the 42 items being claimed, which gave a total value of 
£67,850. Several items were valued above £3,000 with one of them valued at £10,000. The 
valuation is dated November 2018. 
RSA concluded that the total value of the valuables at risk was well above the £40,000 limit, 
with several items above the single item limit. Based on this, it does appear that the policy 
limits werent sufficient to cover Mr and Mrs Ms valuables.
Mr and Mrs M have queried what is included in the £40,000 limit. Theyve referred to a 
comment by RSA that a watch which was specified on the policy was treated as being 
separate to the sum insured.
I can see that a watch with a value of £3,649 is listed as a Specified Personal Possession.
 
Personal Possessions is a separate section of the policy which provides cover for clothes 
when taken away from the home, jewellery, watches and personal items which your family 
normally wear or carry
This would explain why RSA didnt include that particular item in the valuables limit. The total 
valuables limit is £40,000. So, even if Mr and Mrs M had asked for the items valued above 
£3,000 to be specified, they would still have exceeded the policy limit for valuables. 
Mr and Mrs M say RSA didnt provide them with clear information about the policy and what 
actions it might take if the value of their assets increased above the policy limits.
While RSA has avoided the policies back to 2019, Mr and Mrs Ms concerns relate to their 
declined claim which was made in the policy period of 2021/22. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that they lost out as a result of RSAs decision to avoid the policies for the two 
previous years. So, Ive considered the information Mr and Mrs M received prior to renewing 
the policy in October 2021, in order to determine if it was fair for RSA to have avoided their 
policy for that year and decline their claim.
Mr and Mrs M have provided copies of the renewal documents, which include a covering 
letter dated August 2021. The covering letter includes the wording;
Changes to your policyOur top priority is to provide quality cover at a competitive price. Please read your cover 
carefully to make sure that the policy continues to meet your needs
The letter also says: If the policy doesnt cover your needs, you have the right to cancel 
within 14 days of the renewal date.
Mr and Mrs M were provided with a renewal schedule for the period of cover. In the Contents 
section it says:
Valuables (includes any items listed below) Up to £40,000
Single item Limit £3,000
Let us know if the cost to replace your valuables or single items as new, exceeds the 
limits shown.
There is also an Important Notes section on the policy schedule which says:
Changes in your circumstances
Your answers to our questions need to be honest and truthful to the best of your knowledge 
and belief, so that we can consider that you have fulfilled your requirement to disclose all 
necessary information. If any of these details are incorrect or change you must tell us as 
soon as reasonably possible.
Using the address on the front of the Policy Schedule you must tell us within 30 days or as 
soon as you know about any of the following changes: 
any increase in the value of your items to replace as new.
We may re-assess your cover and premiums when we are told about changes in your 
circumstances. If you do not tell us about changes or give us incorrect information, the 
wrong terms may be quoted, we will be entitled to reject payment of a claim or a payment 
could be reduced. In some circumstances your policy might be invalid, and you may not be 
entitled to a refund of premium.
Mr and Mrs M say they inherited the items and had them valued for equitable distribution 
amongst other family members. They were overlooked when the policy renewed each year. I 
dont doubt what theyve said about this being an oversight on their part. However, Im 
satisfied from the above that RSA did enough to make Mr and Mrs M aware of the 
importance of letting it know if information on the schedule was incorrect and the potential 
consequences of not doing so. So, I think its fair for RSA to act along the lines it would have 
done if Mr and Mrs M had given it the correct information about the additional valuables they 
had acquired.
RSA says that if Mr and Mrs M had made it aware of the true cost of replacing their 
valuables, it wouldnt have offered them a policy.  Its up to an insurer to decide the level of 
risk its willing to take when offering a policy. RSA has sent us evidence of its underwriting 
criteria which shows it wouldnt have offered the policy if the total valuables limit was above 
a certain amount. I cant share this with Mr and Mrs M as its commercially sensitive, but Im 
satisfied that the amount of Mr and Mrs Ms valuables was significantly higher than this. So, I 
think RSAs decision to avoid the policy and decline the claim was reasonable. Mr and Mrs M have commented that they believe the policy was mis-sold. I cant see that 
theyve raised this concern with RSA or any other business. If they have concerns about the 
sale of the policy, they would need to raise these with whoever sold it to them.
Mr and Mrs M have raised concerns about the suddenness of RSAs cancellation of their 
policy. They say they had to frantically search for new home insurance over the weekend. I 
understand this was very stressful for them but when a policy is avoided the effect is that it 
was never in existence, which means they had no cover. So, it wouldnt have been in Mr and 
Mrs Ms best interests for RSA to have delayed informing them of its decision. 
Mr and Mrs M have also commented that they will need to pay higher premiums for 
insurance for several years as they will need to declare RSAs avoidance of their policy to 
other insurers. Ive explained why I dont think it was unfair of RSA to have avoided the 
policy. So, Mr and Mrs comments about this havent made a difference to my conclusions.
 
I appreciate this has been a very difficult and stressful situation for Mr and Mrs M. Not only 
have they suffered a substantial financial loss, but I understand the stolen items were of 
great sentimental value too. While I empathise with them, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell 
RSA to reinstate their policy and pay out their claim. Im satisfied that RSA gave them 
sufficient information to make them aware that they were underinsured on their renewal 
documents and made it clear that Mr and Mrs M needed to tell it if there were any changes 
in their circumstances. RSA has also shown that it wouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs M 
cover if they had made it aware of the change. So, I think RSA has acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
RSA didnt provide any further comments or information for me to consider.
Mr and Mrs M made several comments regarding my provisional decision.
They said they understood that CIDRA is the defining legislation dealing with consumer 
insurance contracts and the rights and duties of the insured party and the insurer. They said 
I hadnt provided them with a legal basis for my position. If CIDRA is not applicable, I should 
accept their complaint and direct RSA to reinstate the policy and settle the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M said the assertion that RSA would not have entered into a consumer 
insurance contract with them in 2021 as a consequence of the alleged change in 
circumstances has no credibility. Both the broker and RSAs websites offer consumer 
insurance products with valuables cover for amounts exceeding £100,000.
They said reaching a conclusion that RSA would not have offered them a policy on so called 
commercially sensitive information was inequitable and lacking in transparency. It 
undermines the role and credibility of the Financial Ombudsman service. 
They said that if I do not determine that the policy should be reinstated, I should apply the 
provisions of CIDRA and require RSA to settle their claim proportionately. 
Mr and Mrs M also commented that they didnt feel theyd had a fair hearing as they hadnt 
had the opportunity to discuss the claim in detail with the Financial Ombudsman service. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman service is an informal alternative to the courts, and we decide 
cases on a fair and reasonable basis. When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im 
required to take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mr and Mrs M have made a number of references to CIDRA in their submissions in response 
to my provisional decision. As I explained in my provisional decision, CIDRA isnt relevant to 
their case because the inaccurate information Mr and Mrs M provided related to the cost of 
replacing their valuables. There isnt one correct answer to this question. The estimated cost 
of replacing Mr and Mrs Ms valuables would vary depending on the opinion of the person 
assessing the cost. As this is a question of opinion, rather than a question of fact, CIDRA 
doesnt apply.
However, CIDRA not being relevant doesnt mean that RSA is required to reinstate Mr and 
Mrs Ms policy and settle the claim. As explained, relevant law isnt the only thing I need to 
take into account. And Ive based my decision on whats fair and reasonable.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were aware that their valuables were valued to be much 
higher than what was showing on the renewal documents they received in October 2021. 
Ive also explained why Im satisfied that RSA did enough to make Mr and Mrs M aware of 
the importance of letting it know if information on the policy schedule was incorrect and the 
potential consequences of not doing so.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel I should disclose the evidence of the underwriting criteria 
RSA has provided. When deciding a complaint, Im required to follow rules set by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which can be found in the FCAs handbook online.
DISP 3.5.9 (2) says the Ombudsman may accept information in confidence (so that only an 
edited version, summary or description is disclosed to the other party) where he considers it 
appropriate. 
I havent shared RSAs underwriting criteria with Mr and Mrs M as I dont think it would be 
appropriate to do so due to its commercial sensitivity. However, I can assure them that the 
evidence Ive seen shows that RSAs valuables limit for the policy they took out is 
significantly lower than Mr and Mrs Ms valuables were estimated to be worth. So, Im 
satisfied RSA wouldnt have offered them the policy if Mr and Mrs M had given more 
accurate information about the cost of replacing their valuables.
Mr and Mrs M say RSA and the broker who sold them the policy both offer policies with 
valuables cover which exceeds the amount their valuables were worth. However, this isnt 
relevant to their complaint as RSA has shown that it wouldnt have entered into the 
insurance contract that it did if Mr and Mrs M had provided accurate information. So, I think it 
was fair for RSA to have avoided the policy once it discovered that Mr and Mrs M hadnt 
given a reasonable estimate of what it would cost to replace their valuables. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M think it would be a fairer outcome for RSA to proportionately 
settle their claim. However, in reaching an outcome I need to consider whats fair for RSA as 
well as for Mr and Mrs M. It wouldnt be fair for me to tell RSA to settle Mr and Mrs Ms claim when its shown that it wouldnt have entered into that particular insurance contract with 
them if it had been provided with more accurate information.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M would have liked to have discussed their case with me in 
detail. However, Im satisfied Ive given both parties the opportunity to provide comments 
and information they feel is relevant. And, Im also satisfied that I have sufficient information 
to allow me to reach a fair outcome.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, but having considered all of their points, I 
havent found reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman