DRN-3062765
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt given them a full cash refund 
of the premium they paid for their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought a single trip travel insurance policy on 20 January 2020. The insurer 
was Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs C first bought the policy to cover a holiday starting in 
March 2020. When this holiday was cancelled, they extended the policy to cover a new 
holiday between 22 and 28 December 2020. Mr and Mrs C paid a total of £177.28 for the 
policy, and it included cover for some medical conditions, as well as travel disruption cover. 
The policy also included terrorism cancellation cover but as this additional cover option was 
underwritten by a different insurer, Im not considering this aspect as part of this complaint. 
In any event, Mr and Mrs C have accepted the offer made on this additional cover option.
Mr and Mrs C cancelled the holiday, and their policy, on 19 August 2020. They were 
concerned to go ahead with the holiday given the circumstances due to Covid-19, as well as 
their medical conditions.
Great Lakes has offered a pro-rata voucher refund which is valid for 36 months. Its original 
offer didnt include a refund for the travel disruption cover. Great Lakes has since 
recalculated the pro-rata amount (£64) to include this, and its calculated it from 19 August 
2020. Great Lakes has said the voucher can be gifted to a third party, and it can be used to 
purchase any new policy, including a single trip or an annual one.
Mr and Mrs C arent happy with the offer. They want Great Lakes to refund the premium they 
paid in full, and in cash. Mr and Mrs C say that it was never their intention to cancel the 
holiday, it was due to circumstances outside their control. Mr and Mrs C also say that they 
assumed they were covered from the start of their holiday, and not when they took out the 
policy. They are also concerned that their medical conditions could worsen. Mr and Mrs C 
have mentioned waiting for further medical appointments.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 20 January 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the updated pro-rata refund, calculated from the point the holiday was 
cancelled and including a refund for the travel disruption cover, as a voucher, was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. The 
policy terms and conditions say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
I think the offer Great Lakes has made is fair and reasonable because:
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that theres no refund for 
cancellations after the 14 day cooling off period.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. Mr and Mrs C were covered from 20 January 2020 for a number of listed events 
insured under the policy and I dont think theyve been treated unfairly. So, unlike 
Mr and Mrs C say, they were covered for cancellation from the point they bought the 
policy, rather than only being covered for the duration of the holiday. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think Great Lakes offer of pro-rata refund from the 
date the holiday was cancelled is fair and reasonable.
I think a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case because its valid for 36 months, it can be gifted to a third party, and it can be 
used to buy any policy. So, I dont think the terms of the voucher are so restrictive 
that it would be unreasonable for Mr and Mrs C to accept it. 
Ive also considered if there are any exceptional circumstances that apply to Mr and 
Mrs C, especially what theyve said about their age and medical conditions. But I 
havent been persuaded that theres been such a significant change in Mr or Mrs Cs 
health that it would be unreasonable for Mr and Mrs C to accept a voucher, rather 
than a cash refund.
  
My final decision
Its my decision that the offer Great Lakes Insurance SE has made is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, I direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to issue the pro-rata voucher to Mr and Mrs C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman