DRN-3195494
The complaint
Mr S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his pet 
insurance pre-authorisation claim. 
What happened
Mr S took out a lifetime policy for his dog, insured by Red Sands, starting on 1 November 
2020. On 26 April 2021 he submitted a preauthorisation claim for hind limb ataxia 
(incoordination within the nervous system) for about £3,000. 
Red Sands declined the claim. It said the dogs vet history showed the claim was for a pre-
existing condition which the policy didnt cover. It also added various exclusions to the policy 
based on the dogs vet history backdated to the start of the policy which it said it could do 
under the policy terms. 
Mr S complained to us. In summary he says the problem claimed for wasnt a pre-existing 
condition as his dog wasnt diagnosed with anything relating to his back until April 2021 and 
the first signs of the condition were only known in mid December 2020. It was only then that 
his vet told him his dogs symptoms may be the start of a degenerative nerve issue and 
needed a MRI for diagnosis. He wants Red Sands to pay the claim and apologise. He said 
hes been very stressed by the financial implications of Red Sands not paying for his dogs 
treatment.
Our investigator explained why she thought Red Sands fairly declined the claim.
Mr S disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands has added various exclusions to the policy based on the dogs vet history. Mr S 
hasnt complained about those exclusions being added. So in this decision Ive not 
considered whether Red Sands fairly added those exclusions to the policy.
In this complaint I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the 
claim on the basis that the claim was for a pre-existing condition.
The policy says theres no cover for vet fees for:
Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury or illness that relates 
to or results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
commencement date.
The policy definition of pre-existing condition includes:
any condition, symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form and at 
any time prior to the commencement date.
Red Sands isnt saying that when Mr S took out the policy he knew his dog had neurological 
problems, or that he had intervertebral disc protrusions which was ultimately diagnosed from 
the MRI. Red Sands is saying that when Mr S bought the policy his dog already had 
problems and at least some of those problems were symptoms related to the condition 
claimed for.
We generally consider its reasonable for an insurer to decline a claim on the basis of it 
being a pre-existing condition if before the policy started the consumer knew their pet had a 
problem which may need treatment in the future, and the symptom or sign related to the 
claim condition. The condition doesnt have to diagnosed before the policy started for it to be 
a pre-existing condition. 
I think Red Sand fairly considered that some of Mr S dogs vet history showed he had signs 
or symptoms of the condition claimed before Mr S took out the policy, and Mr S knew those 
symptoms may need treatment. In summary from 2018 the vet notes show that the dog had 
stiffness and lameness in his legs. X-rays didnt show a cause of the problem and in October 
2018 the vet suggested if it was an ongoing issue they could do a MRI of the dogs spine. 
The vet notes say Mr S didnt want the MRI at that stage as the problem was only 
intermittently affecting his dog. The vet notes from 2019 also show the dog had periods of 
lameness.
The vet notes from Mr S dogs visit to the vet in mid December 2020 (after the policy was 
taken out) say:
o mentioned (his dog) has been gradually getting worse with his hind legs and will 
now do the splits a wee bit on slippery surfaces- o been using grippy boots on his 
back feet for this. on ex has got paw placement deficit on right hind  and o says 
has come on over a long while slowly, no signs of acute spinal or neck pain- (does 
have history of suspect spinal pain previously where he was intermitt yelping etc - the 
yelping has now resolved)
I think Red Sands can reasonably understand from what Mr S is reported as saying in the 
vet notes that his dogs problems with his hind legs had been slowly deteriorating over a long 
time. As the policy was only taken out about 8 weeks earlier I think Red Sands could 
reasonably understand the symptoms already existed before the policy started.At the December 2020 appointment the vet said a chronic spinal problem was suspected 
and advised a MRI if the problems become worse. Unfortunately by the March 2021 vet 
appointment the dogs hind legs were worse and even more so in April 2021 when Mr S 
contacted the vet about the MRI.
I dont think Mr S was aware of the severity of his dogs problems at the time of taking out 
the policy in November 2020. But I think from evidence in the vet notes Red Sands could 
reasonably say that before the policy started Mr S dog had symptoms of the condition 
claimed for and Mr S knew the symptoms may need treatment in the future. So Red Sands 
could fairly use the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim.
In addition, as part of our investigation our investigator contacted Mr S dogs regular vet and 
specialist vet to ask their opinion on whether the condition the dog was treated for in 
April 2021 was a sudden onset or would have progressed over a period of time.  Our 
investigator detailed the vets full responses in correspondence to Mr S and Red Sands. In 
brief, the specialist vet said the onset would have been is hard to say and that he would 
leave it to us to look at all the evidence to make a decision.
The specialist vets report dated 30 April 2021 which gave the result of the MRI said:
(Dogs name) presented with a history of progressive hind limb paresis and ataxia 
(incoordination)  The disc protrusions that (dog name) has are Hansen type-2 disc 
protrusions: in most cases with Hansen type-2 disc protrusions there is gradual 
bulging of the disc over time and there has probably been underlying spinal cord 
compression for a lot longer than (dogs name) has been showing clinical signs for.
The disc protrusions in (Dogs name) are Hansen type-2 disc protrusions, which are 
usually slowly progressive over time and associated with a degree of permanent 
spinal cord damage.
I think the comments in the specialist vets report show this is a condition which has 
developed slowly overtime, which I think means its more likely than not the symptoms seen 
before the policy was bought related to the claim condition.
Mr S dogs regular vet said the dog presented at the vets for the first time for neurological 
defects in his hind legs on 21 December 2020 and that:
There were no findings of neurological deficits in his hindlimbs prior to this date on 
the clinical notes and he was being treated for suspect neck or shoulder pain prior to 
this date with no definitive diagnosis. However, whilst we did not know for certain it 
was a spinal issue it was one the possible causes noted in the clinical notes prior to 
21st dec 2020 with a MRI being discussed as something (dogs name) could have 
done in way of further investigations if Mr S would consider it.
I cannot say with absolute certainty which of his past issues would be linked to his 
disc issue or when the disc issue started as no MRI was done prior to April 2021 but 
in my opinion (which is based on his clinical notes and the discussion of likely 
chronicity on the report from (name of the specialist vets)) it is more likely that (dogs 
name) intervertebral disc problem was not sudden/acute onset but rather something 
that had developed over time and acutely worsened/progressed when he first 
presented with neurological deficits in December 2020.
So I think the regular vets opinion is more evidence that its more likely than not that the 
claim was for a pre-existing condition.Im sorry to read that Mr S has been badly affected by the worry of having to pay for his 
dogs treatment. But for the reasons above I think Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined 
the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman