DRN-2335695
The complaint
Mr B has complained about British Gas Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with an annual service under his home emergency insurance policy and the cost of 
renewal.   
What happened
Mr B had a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas. When it came up for renewal 
he wasnt happy about a price increase and he wasnt happy about a delay in undertaking 
his annual boiler service. Mr B maintains that a service wasnt undertaken at all. 
When Mr B asked British Gas about the increase in price it offered to lower the premium to 
the amount a new customer would have to pay which Mr B agreed to. But he wasnt happy 
that his annual service didnt take place around the time of the anniversary of the last one. 
And that British Gas rearranged the appointment for the service, and he says a service 
wasnt undertaken when British Gas says it was. So Mr B complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him. He thought British Gas had acted reasonably in 
offering to reduce Mr Bs renewal price to that of a new customer. And he was satisfied that 
it did undertake a service in line with the policy terms and conditions.
As Mr B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration and confusion about the servicing of his boiler. He 
expected the service to take place around the same time/month of the year as last year. Plus 
he was frustrated that British Gas rearranged the appointment to service his boiler and he 
didnt realise that it serviced his boiler when it attended a claim under the breakdown part of 
his policy. 
Although I can understand why Mr B would think his boiler would be serviced in the same 
month (January in this instance) each year but this is a particularly busy period for 
breakdowns which British Gas understandably prioritise. Indeed that is probably why it 
rearranged his appointment for his boiler service from February until April. 
But what Mr B wasnt aware of was that when he arranged an emergency call out to fix a 
problem with his central heating British Gas took the opportunity to service his boiler as well. 
It is a shame that this wasnt communicated more clearly to Mr B, but Ive seen 
documentation showing that a service took place. And it made sense for British Gas to 
undertake the service while its engineer was there and to cancel the later appointment for 
the service. I understand that British Gas also waived Mr Bs policy excess as its service 
couldve been better and it couldve explained that the excess payment was due before 
attending, which seems fair.
Finally, when Mr B was sent his policy renewal the premium had risen so he called to 
complain. And British Gas said that it would offer him the same price as it would a new 
customer which was lower than the amount Mr B was due to pay. This seems reasonable 
and Mr B was free to turn down the offer and take his business elsewhere if he wished so I 
cant say that British Gas has acted unreasonably, especially as the increase in premium 
(that Mr B negotiated) was small.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman