The complaint
Miss S has complained that Arrow Global Limited has been pursuing her for a debt which 
isnt hers.
What happened
Miss S is unhappy that Arrow Global is pursuing her for a debt which she thinks might be for 
a fraudulent loan from 2004. She wants Arrow Global to provide proof of the debt or stop 
pursuing her for it. 
Miss S referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
recommended that Arrow Global stop contacting Miss S about the debt as she hadnt seen 
any evidence that the debt belonged to Miss S. 
Arrow Global disagreed and said it had enough information to believe the debt belonged to 
Miss S and so it wasnt reasonable to cease attempts to recover the debt.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the complaint should be upheld and largely for the same reasons as 
explained by the investigator.
Arrow Global hasnt been able to provide the original agreement for the debt and hasnt 
provided any statements showing the outstanding debt amount. There isnt any evidence 
linking Miss S to the debt. Arrow Global says the outstanding amount is just over £6,000 and 
the last payment was made in 2014. However, it hasnt been able to provide any evidence of 
either the outstanding amount or proof of the last payment.
Miss S has provided a copy of her credit report which doesnt show any evidence of any 
debt. 
Arrow Global has explained the debt is unenforceable as the original agreement isnt 
available. But says it is entitled to continue pursuing the debt as it believes it has sufficient 
information to show that the debt belongs to Miss S. 
Having considered all of the above, Im not satisfied that Arrow Global has enough 
information showing the debt belongs to Miss S and so I dont consider it is reasonable for it 
to continue pursuing Miss S when she has confirmed she will not make any payments until 
she receives proof of the debt. 
DRN-1003508My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I direct Arrow Global Limited to stop contacting Miss S about 
the debt.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman