DRN-3158498
The complaint
Miss M complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) and their decision 
to approve her two loan applications. Miss M also complains about the service Halifax 
provided after she made them aware the loans were unaffordable to her.
What happened
Miss M applied two loans with BOS. Loan one was approved for £6,000 in March 2017, with 
a monthly repayment of £238.12. Miss M maintained her payments for this loan until she 
applied for loan two in June 2018. BOS again approved this application for £8,982.44 with a 
monthly repayment of £339.25. Loan two cleared loan ones outstanding balance and 
provided Miss M with an additional £5,000 which was transferred into her current account.
But in October 2018, Miss M began to struggle financially. And she contacted BOS to make 
them aware she was unable to meet her monthly repayments. Due to the stress this situation 
caused, and Miss M suffering with mental health conditions at the time, she asked her 
mother to deal with BOS on her behalf.
But Miss Ms mother encountered difficulties when trying to speak to BOS. So, she raised a 
complaint on Miss Ms behalf. For ease of reference, Ive referred to both Miss M and her 
mother as Miss M through the decision where appropriate.
Miss M complained about BOS decision to approve both loans. She thought BOS acted 
irresponsibly when doing so as it shouldve been clear they were unaffordable to her. She 
also complained about the way BOS had handled her complaint and in particular, the 
difficulties they caused when dealing with her mother. She explained this impacted her 
mental health significantly. So, she wanted the outstanding balance of the loan to be written 
off and to be compensated for the upset shed been caused.
BOS issued several responses, addressed different parts of Miss Ms complaint. Across 
these responses, they maintained their belief that theyd assessed the affordability of the 
loans fairly and so, didnt think theyd acted irresponsibly when approving them. But they 
recognised their service hadnt been reasonable when handling Miss Ms complaint and 
communicating with her mother and they understood the upset this may have caused. So, 
they paid Miss M a total of £350 to recognise this. Miss M remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
While Miss Ms complaint was with our service, BOS agreed to write off the outstanding 
balance of the loan having received medical evidence about Miss Ms mental health 
conditions. But Miss M was unhappy that BOS had continued to send her reminders about 
the outstanding balance after it had been written off. Miss M raised her concerns with BOS 
about this but no response was received. So, Miss M wanted us to consider this issue as 
well within our investigation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. She recognised with 
hindsight, it may look as though the loans were unaffordable. But she explained her view 
must be based on the information BOS had to consider at the time of the application. And 
having reviewed this, she thought the checks BOS completed were proportionate and she 
didnt think the information they provided suggested the loans were unaffordable. So, she 
didnt think BOS needed to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
She also thought the £350 BOS had already paid Miss M fairly compensated her for the 
upset she wouldve been caused by the difficulties she faced raising her concerns about the 
affordability of the loans. So she didnt think BOS needed to do anything more for this aspect 
either.
But she did think BOS had also acted unfairly when sending correspondence about the loan 
to Miss M after theyd already agreed to write the loan off. And she thought BOS were aware 
of Miss Ms mental health conditions at the time and shouldve done more to ensure no more 
correspondence was sent. So, she though BOS should pay Miss M another £300 to 
recognise any upset and worry this correspondence caused.
BOS accepted this recommendation and have confirmed this has since been paid. But Miss 
M didnt. She maintained her view that BOS shouldve known the loans were unaffordable. 
She referred to a Junior ISA she held and the withdrawals shed made from that around the 
time the loans were approved. She thought this, and the fact her bank statements showed 
transfers from her parents, shouldve shown to BOS she was struggling financially. And she 
maintained her view that the compensation offered by BOS, or recommended by our 
investigator, wasnt enough to acknowledge the upset shed been caused since 2018. As 
Miss M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. 
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss M. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been upsetting and stressful for Miss M when she became unable to meet her 
monthly repayments. Im aware this had a significant impact on her mental health and I 
appreciate the suffering she wouldve gone through during this time. And because of this, I 
can appreciate why Miss M would hold BOS responsible for this suffering as they provided 
the loans that Miss M was unable to afford. So, I understand why Miss M feels as though 
BOS should compensate her for this. But for me to say BOS did something wrong when 
approving the loans, Id need to be satisfied they failed to carry out proportionate checks 
before doing so. Or, if they did, that they assessed the information these checks provided 
unfairly. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about whether BOS carried out checks that were proportionate to the loans 
they provided. For loan one, I can see BOS considered Miss Ms monthly income, which 
Miss M declared to be £1,100 a month. They also considered Miss Ms residential status, 
employment status, her bank statements and the information reported to her credit file to 
understand any other credit Miss M had outstanding. So, I think the amount of checks BOS 
carried out were proportionate and provided them with a reasonable oversight of Miss Ms 
financial situation at that time.
But Ive then thought about whether BOS assessed the information these checks provided 
fairly. Ive seen Miss Ms statements at the time that the income information BOS relied upon was broadly correct. And Ive seen from Miss Ms credit file that at the time, she only had 
one other open account which was for a mobile phone contract worth £39 a month. And her 
credit file showed she maintained this account well with no negative information being 
reported. It was also confirmed that Miss M was living with her parents at the time and 
wasnt making any payments towards the household such as rent or board. 
So, when the monthly loan repayment was added to Miss Ms other existing credit payment, 
this totalled £277.12. And when this was subtracted from Miss Ms monthly income, she was 
left with £822.88 disposable income which I think is a more than reasonable amount. 
Because of this, I dont think there was anything to suggest to BOS that the loan was 
unaffordable and so, I cant say they acted irresponsibly when deciding to lend to Miss M.
Ive then thought about loan two. I can see BOS completed all the same checks as they did 
on the first loan. And they also considered that loan two was intended to clear loan ones 
outstanding balance, meaning loan ones monthly payment would no longer be required. 
Loan two was for £8,982.44, which left Miss M with £5,000 after loan one was cleared. And 
this had a monthly repayment of £339.25 on a lower interest rate than loan one. As Miss M 
declared her monthly income to be over £1,900 at the time, I think the checks BOS 
completed were proportionate as even though the loan amount had increased, so had Miss 
Ms income.
Ive then thought about whether BOS assessed the information these checks provided fairly. 
Ive seen Miss Ms income was averaged out over her previous three months bank 
statements and this showed her declared income was correct. And Ive seen Miss Ms living 
situation hadnt changed so she was still living with her parents and not contributing to 
household bills.
Miss Ms credit file showed she had no other existing credit. So, when the new monthly 
repayment was subtracted from her monthly income, Miss M was left with over £1,500 
disposable income a month. Again, I think this is more than reasonable and because of this, 
I dont think there was any information available to BOS at the time that suggested the loan 
was unaffordable. And because of this, I dont think BOS did anything wrong when approving 
the loans and so, I dont think they need to do anything more. 
But I am aware the outstanding balance of the loan has been written off as Miss M provided 
medical evidence and Im glad to see BOS acted positively and sympathetically towards this.
I understand Miss M wont agree with this. And I want to re-assure her Ive considered her 
comments about the way she used her junior cash ISA at the time and that she was being 
financially abused by another person. But the way Miss M spent her ISA has no bearing on 
BOS decision to approve her loan. Miss M was entitled to spend her ISA in any way she 
wished and it wouldnt have been fair for this to impact on BOS lending decision which 
focused on Miss Ms income to calculate the affordability.
And having looked at Miss Ms bank statements, while I can see there are some transfers to 
other people, and there are transfers in from her parents, I dont think there was anything 
contained within these to suggest she was struggling financially or that she was being 
financially abused. As BOS werent made explicitly aware of this situation at the time, I cant 
say BOS acted unfairly.
Ive then turned to Miss Ms complaint about the service BOS provided after she made them 
aware she was unable to afford the monthly repayments of loan two.
I can see BOS have accepted their service has fell below a reasonable standard and that 
they failed to reasonably arrange for Miss Ms mother to be recognised as her representative. And they recognised the upset and delays this caused and offered Miss M 
£350 in two separate payments to compensate her for this. As its not disputed that BOS 
acted unfairly, I dont intend to discuss this any further. Im aware Miss Ms main dispute 
surrounds the amount of compensation BOS have offered and Ill consider this in the section 
below.
Finally, Ive thought about BOS issuing correspondence to Miss M after they wrote off the 
outstanding balance of the loan. BOS wrote off the loan after receiving medical evidence that 
explained the impact the loan and the stress of being in arrears had on Miss Ms health. So, I 
think BOS shouldve been aware that sending Miss M further correspondence about the loan 
was likely to impact this further and make efforts to ensure a stop on correspondence was in 
place. But I cant see they did.
Instead, they sent Miss M further correspondence which contradicted their agreement to 
write off the outstanding debt which I think was both unreasonable and unfair. So, I think 
BOS should compensate Miss M for this. 
Putting things right
As I think BOS have acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what BOS should do to put things 
right. Any award or direction I make is intended to place Miss M back in the position she 
wouldve been had BOS acted fairly in the first place. And I must stress any award or 
direction is focused solely on the impact suffered by Miss M. I recognise Miss Ms mother 
has acted as Miss Ms representative and shes taken time and effort to liaise with BOS on 
Miss Ms behalf. But Miss M is BOS customer for this complaint, not Miss Ms mother. So I 
wont be considered the inconvenience caused to Miss Ms mother directly. But I have 
thought about how the inconvenience to Miss Ms mother might have affected Miss M.
BOS have already paid Miss M £350 to recognise the difficulty Miss Ms mother faced when 
trying to discuss Miss Ms situation with them as her representative. I recognise these 
difficulties elongated the complaint process and because of this, it took longer for Miss Ms 
situation to be resolved. While Miss Ms mother was the one who took time to speak to BOS, 
I think its likely Miss M wouldve been impacted by the situation as she wouldve been aware 
the loan was still outstanding and arrears were being accrued. And I think its clear the stress 
and worry of this impacted Miss Ms health significantly. But I think the £350 BOS have paid 
is a fair one and in line with what I wouldve awarded to address this aspect of the complaint. 
I say this because much of the inconvenience was suffered by Miss Ms mother, rather than 
Miss M directly. So, I think the £350 recognises the impact the delays had on Miss M that 
were caused by BOS failure to liaise with Miss Ms mother directly.
Ive then thought about the correspondence sent to Miss M after the loan had been written 
off. BOS were aware of Miss Ms medical conditions as the evidence theyd received to 
support this led to their decision to write off the loan in the first place. So, I think BOS 
shouldve realised further correspondence sent to Miss M would make this worse and put 
processes in place to prevent this. And they didnt.
I think Miss M is likely to have been both upset and confused when she received this 
correspondence. And I think the worry these letters caused wouldve affected her health 
which BOS were aware was already negatively impacted. Our investigator recommended 
BOS pay £300 to compensate Miss M for this and BOS have since accepted this and 
advised its already been paid. And I think this payment is a fair one as it recognises the 
upset Miss M was caused while also taking into consideration BOS had attempted to act 
positively and sympathetically by agreeing to write off the loan in the first instance.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss M was hoping for. I want to reassure Miss M Ive considered all of the comments and evidence she provided both before and after our 
investigator shared their view. Im aware Miss M feels as though she made BOS aware of 
her health issues before the loans were provided. But the evidence Miss M provided shows 
her health conditions being mentioned briefly as part of a refund request following a payment 
dispute with a travel company. I dont think it wouldve been fair for BOS to consider this 
information as part of any decision to lend to Miss M. And I wouldnt expect BOS to return to 
this information when Miss M explained her monthly loan repayments had become 
unaffordable. So, I dont think this information suggests that the compensation Miss M has 
received should be increased.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax and direct them to take the following action if it has not already been 
completed:
Pay Miss M £300 to recognise the upset she was caused by BOS issuing further 
correspondence about the loan they had written off. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman