Page 1 of 2The complaint
Ms M complains that Wirex Limited hasnt recalled funds she sent from her account with it to 
an investment scam.
What happened
Ms M contacted Wirex in June 2020 to let it know shed been the victim of an investment 
scam. In May and June 2020 she deposited funds into her Wirex account, converted them to 
cryptocurrency and then sent them on to what she thought at the time was a genuine 
investment firm. 
Wirex said it wasnt able to recall the funds that had been sent, as they had been exchanged 
to cryptocurrency and received by the intended wallet. And there were no chargeback rights 
as this process didnt involve a debit card. Ms M brought her complaint to our service.
Ms M said that Wirex should recall her funds. And that it had failed in its duty to her, as it 
hadnt warned her she might be about to fall victim to a scam or fraud. She said it didnt do 
its due diligence as there were warnings about the firm she was involved in, but it didnt alert 
her to any of this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. She didnt think Wirex had done anything 
wrong. I was then allocated the case to review and informally contacted Ms M. I explained to 
her that not all her complaint points were things we could look at. She replied and didnt 
acknowledge this point, but reiterated about the rules that apply to regulated firms and what 
duty she considers Wirex had. So I am now issuing decisions on her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms Ms other decision has set out, our service can only deal with the actions of Wirex 
Limited. And this part of Wirex is regulated as an e-money institution.
Ms M complains that Wirex didnt do enough to protect her from this scam or act with the 
relevant regulations and good industry practice that it should be following. But I havent seen 
any evidence to show thats the case here.
DRN-3910646Page 2 of 2I can see the funds that Ms M wanted to pay into her Wirex limited account were accepted 
by it. And credited to her Fiat wallet  which is where Id expect money paid in which is in 
GBP to be kept. Ms M has provided copies of her own receipts which then show it correctly 
processed her requests to move this money from her Fiat wallet to her Bitcoin wallet, 
converting it into a type of cryptocurrency. As has already been explained to Ms M, at this 
time the funds fall outside our scope as cryptocurrency and the exchanging, holding and 
transferring of it are not regulated. 
Ms M hasnt suggested that any errors were made in the processing of her funds up until 
they were exchanged to cryptocurrency. And I havent seen any suggestion that this wasnt 
done with the correct skill or care. Or that Wirex acted incorrectly or unfairly in any way.
I dont consider Wirex needed to warn Ms M about scams or fraud when she was moving 
money between her own accounts. At this time she had full control of her funds and as she 
wasnt transferring them to anyone else, there was no risk of a third party taking them. Wirex 
Limited didnt have any information from Ms M about the scam firm, as these details were 
only input after the funds were exchanged and she selected where she wanted to send them 
 so it didnt have this information to act on. And as above, transferring cryptocurrency isnt
an activity I can look at as it isnt regulated.
For this reason, Wirex Limited also isnt able to recall the funds Ms M sent as it wasnt 
involved in this part of the process. Its part stopped when the funds moved to her Bitcoin 
wallet. And it cant recall the vast majority of the funds from here to the Fiat wallet, as Ms M 
herself took them out of this wallet when she sent them to the scam. And while a small 
amount of funds did remain in the Bitcoin wallet, they have since been converted back to 
GBP and returned to Ms M.
I accept Ms M has lost a large amount to a scam investment firm, but this loss occurred 
outside of what Wirex Limited is responsible and regulated for. So I cant say its made any 
mistakes in how it processed Ms Ms account as an e-money institution.
Ms M did also raise concerns about Wirex holding some of her money. And about how it did 
then refund some funds to her. But the evidence Ive seen shows the account was emptied, 
with the funds remaining being returned to Ms M and then the account was blocked. So I 
dont consider Wirex Limited needs to do anything further in relation to these points now.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman