DRN-2909305
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way Covea Insurance PLC handled a claim on their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
On 20 July 2019 the lath and plaster ceiling in Mr and Mrs Ms living room collapsed. They 
contacted their insurer, Covea, to make a claim. Covea said that, although the ceiling wasnt 
covered by the policy, theyd be able to claim for the damage to their contents.  
Two days later Covea sent an assessor from Company A to inspect the damage to the items 
in the room, including the wallpaper, carpet, curtains, suite and display cabinet. Mr and Mrs 
M say they were told by the assessor that their suite (three-seater sofa, two armchairs and 
footstool) was beyond economical repair due to the damage caused by the lime plaster. 
Following the assessors visit Mr and Mrs M made their own arrangements to get the ceiling 
repaired. They say they had to act quickly because the rest of the ceiling was likely to 
collapse. On 24 July 2019 they moved some of their items into storage and disposed of the 
suite. 
Between July and early September 2019 Mr and Mrs M contacted suppliers to get estimates 
for cleaning, repair or replacement of the items theyd discussed with the assessor. But they 
were confused to see some of Coveas correspondence referring to recovering their suite, 
rather than replacing it. On 22 August 2019 Mr and Mrs M queried this  they told Covea the 
suite had been disposed of. They were shocked to discover the assessors report said their 
suite could be cleaned.
On 3 September 2019 Mr and Mrs M sent Covea an estimate for the replacement of their 
suite. As the value was over £10,500, Covea said the claim would need to be passed to a 
specialist team. They asked to see a copy of the purchase receipt for the suite to confirm the 
proposed replacement was like-for-like.
Mr and Mrs M said they hadnt got a receipt for their original suite  but they had another 
sofa of comparable quality and design. Covea requested an appointment so that one of their 
approved suppliers could look at this sofa and provide a report. Mr and Mrs M declined - 
they said they didnt consider Coveas supplier to be impartial. 
Once theyd received all Mr and Mrs Ms estimates, Covea became concerned that the value 
of the damaged items in the living room appeared to be more than £20,000, whereas the 
total sum insured under the policy for all of their home contents was £75,000. Covea said 
theyd arrange for a loss adjustor from Company B to carry out a value at risk assessment 
(VAR). This was to value all of Mr and Mrs Ms contents, to check whether they had 
adequate cover in place. 
Mr and Mrs M say they werent happy for Company B to attend their home due to poor 
reviews theyd seen on the internet. They wrote to their insurance broker, rather than Covea, 
asking for an alternative loss adjustor to be appointed. They say they were aware Company 
B were trying to reach them to arrange an appointment, but they didnt respond because 
they were awaiting their brokers response. 
On 28 October 2019 Mr and Mrs M made a formal complaint - again addressed to their 
insurance broker. This was forwarded to Covea, who responded on 24 January 2020. Covea 
said they didnt think theyd done anything wrong  and that theyd progressed the claim in a 
timely manner. They said that, as a gesture of goodwill, theyd settle Mr and Mrs Ms claim 
for the carpet, curtains and pelmet, wallpaper replacement and cabinet, subject to the terms 
of the policy. But they said theyd be unable to progress Mr and Mrs Ms claim for the suite 
until a VAR was completed. 
On 30 January 2020 Covea paid Mr and Mrs M £5,210.66. But there was no accompanying 
letter explaining how theyd arrived at this figure.
Our investigator didnt think Covea had treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly. She thought that, 
although thered been an unfortunate misunderstanding about whether the suite was beyond 
economic repair, ultimately Covea had concerns about whether Mr and Mrs M had adequate 
cover for their home contents. The investigator considered it reasonable for them to request 
a VAR to be completed by one of their approved contractors - and to put the rest of the claim 
on hold until that was completed.
Mr and Mrs M said their complaint wasnt just about the VAR  they were also unhappy 
about the inconsistencies, incompetence and misinformation they felt theyd received 
throughout their claim. They didnt think it was reasonable for Covea to subject them to a 
VAR during a global pandemic as they were considered to be in a high-risk age group  and 
they questioned the relevance of this being carried out three months after the damage 
happened. They said theyd increased their contents insurance by one-quarter, so 
suggested Covea pay three-quarters of the cost of their replacement suite. They said they 
felt this was reasonable because Covea had delayed the progression of their claim and 
caused them a considerable amount of trouble and inconvenience. 
Our investigator put this proposal to Covea  but they declined to pay three-quarters of the 
cost of the replacement suite.  They said the claim couldve been settled weeks, if not 
months sooner if Mr and Mrs M had cooperated with their requests. They said their attempts 
to deal with the complaint were delayed because Mr and Mrs M preferred to write to their 
broker. Covea said they had no reason to request a VAR until the costs were presented to 
them. They said the fact that Mr and Ms M had now increased their contents insurance 
further suggested they may not previously have been adequately insured. 
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
In their complaint, Mr and Mrs M highlighted some of the general principles set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which include requirements to treat customers fairly, and 
to communicate information their clients needs in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading. 
In addition, the FCA sets out rules and guidance specifically for insurers, which can be found 
in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint by reference to the FCA rules and guidance as 
well as the contractual agreement they had with their insurer - which is subject to the terms 
and conditions set out in their policy booklet and schedule. Ive focussed on what I consider 
to be the main aspects of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Information about the claims process
Ive seen copies of the schedule of insurance and policy booklet Mr and Mrs M wouldve 
been sent when they took out their home insurance. I find this gives clear information about 
what the policy covers, whats excluded, the process for making a claim and how claims are 
settled. So, although I appreciate that they were expecting a letter from Covea following 
notification of their claim, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M had information in their policy booklet 
about the claims process.
Consistency and continuity in the handling of the claim
Mr and Mrs M say Coveas handling of the damage to their suite has been inconsistent. 
Theyre particularly upset that Company As report states that their suite would be cleaned  
theyre confident this isnt what he told them when he visited their home. 
Ive carefully reviewed the descriptions of the condition of the suite in Company As 
preliminary and final reports dated 23 and 30 July 2019.  Both reports include the same 
general description of the damage, saying the collapsed lath and plaster ceiling had landed 
on the suite. The preliminary report includes costings for cleaning and deodorising the suite. 
The final report doesnt make any different recommendation  neither report suggests the 
suite was beyond economic repair.
Having considered the representations made by both parties, its clear that recollections 
differ as to what was agreed during the assessors initial visit. Where I cant be certain of 
what happened, I have to decide whats most likely. In this case, on balance, I think it most 
likely that there was a misunderstanding as to the assessors professional opinion of the 
suite. 
Mr and Mrs M say Coveas case handlers werent consistent in their approach. Theyve 
provided examples of claims handlers giving different information as to whether they were 
intending to re-cover or replace the suite. Ive reviewed the records provided by both parties 
about this in detail.
 
Coveas records show Company A called Mr and Mrs M on 24 July 2019 to discuss the suite 
 and Mr and Mrs M told them it had been disposed of. I do think there was a breakdown in 
communication here  and that Covea didnt appreciate the suite had been disposed of until 
Mr and Mrs M clarified this in their email of 22 August 2019. Ive considered the effect this 
had on the progress of the claim. 
Covea say their normal process would be to attempt refurbishment of the suite before 
agreeing to replace it - their records show they considered whether this would be cost-
effective. The evidence shows that, by 11 September 2019, Covea had looked into this and 
agreed to cover the cost of a replacement suite, subject to receipt of suitable estimates. Mr 
and Mrs M have told us this was delayed by the holiday period and because their furnishings 
were very high-quality items made by bespoke furniture and curtain makers. As the final 
estimates for furnishings werent submitted until early September, I dont consider any 
confusion about the suite to have delayed things. 
When the estimated value of the claim exceeded £10,000, it was referred to another team. 
Covea are entitled to make business decisions about how they handle particular types of 
claim  I dont consider them to have done anything wrong here. Mr and Mrs M say they feel 
they were subjected to an interrogation when their file was passed to this specialist team. I 
can understand this might have been upsetting for them, but Ive seen nothing in the 
evidence to suggest the claim handler was rude or discourteous. And Im satisfied that Covea had a legitimate reason for questioning the sum insured under the policy, which Ill 
discuss in more detail below.
Value at risk (VAR) assessment
Covea say they became concerned when the total of the estimates for the damage to 
furnishings in Mr and Mrs Ms living room exceeded £20,000  whereas the total sum 
insured for all of their home contents was £75,000. This suggested Mr and Mrs Ms contents 
may have been underinsured. 
Insurers generally charge a higher premium for a higher sum insured as its likely to mean 
taking on more risk. Insurers expect consumers to have the right sum insured, so that the 
right premium is charged to reflect the risk involved. If this hasnt happened, the insurer is 
likely to offer a reduced settlement on any claim. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy states:
You will receive new for old cover on all your contents (where repair or replacement is not 
possible) including clothing and linen, however we may take off an amount for wear and tear 
if the cost of replacing all your contents as new is more than the sum insured shown on your 
Schedule at the time of loss or damage.
Under these circumstances I dont consider Covea to have acted unreasonably by 
appointing a loss adjuster of their own choosing to assess the value of all Mr and Mrs Ms 
home contents. I dont find internet reviews of that loss adjuster to be relevant.  
Mr and Mrs M say theyve now increased the sum insured by one quarter. Nevertheless, I 
dont consider Covea to have acted unfairly by putting a hold on their claim until theyre able 
to obtain an independent assessment of the VAR, so that they can properly assess the level 
of reduction thats appropriate in this case.
Partial settlement of the claim
In January 2020, in their final response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Covea said theyd 
settle the claim for the carpet, curtains and pelmet, wallpaper/decorating and cabinet as a 
goodwill gesture. Mr and Mrs M then received a payment of £5,210.66  but with no 
explanation as to what it covered. 
Our investigator asked Covea to clarify this. They confirmed that payment was to cover the 
cost of the curtains and pelmets, based on the quote Mr and Mrs M had submitted. In May 
2021 Covea made a further payment to Mr and Mrs M - theyve told us this comprised 
£1,517.75 for the cost of the carpet, £485 for the cabinet repair and £790 to cover the cost of 
replacing the damaged wallpaper. 
Ive thought about the length of time Mr and Mrs M have waited for this second payment  
and whether it would be appropriate for Covea to pay interest on any money owed to them 
during that period. I note that, in September 2019, Mr and Mrs M advised Covea that they no 
longer wished to claim for the damage to their wallpaper. Covea have acknowledged this - 
and say they nevertheless paid the amount theyd promised. As Covea have paid Mr and 
Mrs M an additional £790 here, I dont consider it appropriate to award interest.
 
Mr and Mrs M also sent Covea the invoice for the cost of storing their furniture whilst the 
room was redecorated  and I understand this has now also been paid. Although Mr and Mrs 
M had previously submitted a quotation for daily storage charges, Ive seen no evidence that theyd provided final costings before May 2021. So, I dont consider Covea to be responsible 
for any delay in settling this aspect of the claim. 
The only aspect of Mr and Mrs Ms claim that remains unsettled is the suite, which Covea 
have said theyre unable to progress without a VAR. And, for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont consider this to be unfair or unreasonable. 
The insurance broker
Mr and Mrs M sent two letters to their broker, dated 26 September 2019 and 28 October 
2019. On each occasion, the broker advised them that any complaint about the handling of a 
claim needed to be directed to Covea. 
I can see Mr and Mrs M placed a great deal of trust in their brokers reputation when 
choosing their home insurance - and they feel very strongly that the broker shouldve done 
more to help. But I can only consider their complaint against Covea, because a broker isnt 
responsible for handling claims. This is something for Mr and Mrs M to bear in mind when 
they renew their policy. 
I said I wasnt minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and invited both parties to make 
any further comments. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with my provisional decision. They provided a lengthy response, 
much of which repeats information weve received previously. Ill summarise their main 
points:
They made two complaints  both against Covea and their broker. They felt it was 
important that they should be able to complain about the poor service theyd received 
to the company who sold them the insurance. The reason why our service wont 
consider a complaint against their broker hasnt been explained.
Coveas assessor was quite clear in what he told them, but his report made no 
mention of proposed action regarding the damaged suite. If the carpet needed 
replacing so did the suite, because the same plaster fell on both. They feel any 
misunderstanding was on Coveas side, not theirs. 
Covea had been notified of the disposal of the suite, and the reasons why, on 25 July 
2019 in a Summary of Events document. So any failure to appreciate the suite had 
been disposed of  and any associated effect on the progress of the claim - should 
be attributed to Covea not checking their email records sufficiently. 
The assessor who visited on 20 July 2019 came into their study and stood next to 
their other sofa, which was made as part of the same order as the damaged suite. It 
wouldve been unavoidable for him to have seen this sofa. Covea could simply have 
asked him about it, rather than sending someone else to inspect it. 
They feel their concerns about Company Bs reputation have been trivialised and 
dismissed as irrelevant. 
The estimates obtained for replacement of the suite were £8,814.15 and £8,934.15  
neither was over £10,500. 
They hadnt said the claims handler who took over their file was rude or discourteous, 
but that his manner was at best brisk and at times tending towards intimidation. 
The total of the estimates for the damage fell well short of £20,000. They had no 
objection to a VAR, but questioned the time it had taken Covea to decide this was necessary. The damage had only occurred in one room  and an assessor had 
already inspected it.
Covea didnt progress things in a timely manner  even after our service became 
involved. They believe the ombudsman can award compensation for the inordinate 
amount of time and effort theyve had to devote to progressing their claim.
On renewal theyd requested an increase in their contents insurance, but had only 
been able to do so in £25,000 increments. Their offer to Covea was based on this 
increase and was made in good faith as a compromise, in order to move things 
forward. 
They werent aware that the cost of replacing the damaged wallpaper was covered 
by Covea as a goodwill gesture. As theyd understood they were entitled to this, 
they dont think it should affect whether they receive interest. 
Theyd like clarification on whether theyre entitled to recompense for the time spent 
in progressing their claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs M that Ive considered all of the information they supplied in 
support of their original complaint, in which they fully detailed their record of events and 
concerns, together with the information theyve provided more recently. As Ive previously 
explained, if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe it affects 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr and Mrs M purchased their policy from, and paid premiums to, their broker. The broker is 
a regulated firm, so our service would be able to consider any complaint they had about the 
sale of their policy. But Mr and Mrs M complained here about problems they experienced in 
making a claim. This complaint was properly set up against Covea, because carrying out 
contracts of insurance is the responsibility of the insurer and that is the activity Covea was 
performing in handling their claim.
Ive previously discussed the assessors report. I wont go over this again, other than to add 
that I dont find replacement of the carpet to be relevant to the assessment of the suite. 
Although I accept the same plaster fell on both, its possible to re-cover a suite instead of 
replacing it. And I dont consider it reasonable to expect Coveas assessor to recollect, or 
have made any notes about, a different sofa in another part of the house. 
Mr and Mrs M have provided evidence showing that, on 25 July 2019, they sent a document 
summarising all the events to date  including disposal of the suite. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont find the misunderstanding about the suite to have made any 
difference to the progress of the claim. The evidence Ive seen shows Mr and Mrs M were 
seeking quotes for replacement of the suite throughout the period concerned. 
I accept that the quotes for replacement of the suite were below £10,500. But Im satisfied 
that the total estimated value of the claim exceeded this amount  and that Covea were 
entitled to make a business decision about their handling of a claim of that value. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the claims handler in their specialist team behaved inappropriately in any 
way.
Mr and Mrs M dispute Coveas estimated valuation of the claim, which prompted the request 
for a VAR. Ive seen a copy of Coveas claim file, which shows they kept the estimated value 
of the claim under constant review as quotes were received. I accept things such as storage costs couldnt be properly quantified until the final invoice was received  and this was why 
Coveas valuation was just an estimate. So, although the final costings came in at under 
£20,000, I cant say Covea did anything wrong here. 
Im satisfied that Covea had no reason to request a VAR until the estimated value of the 
claim gave cause for concern about the sum insured. The VAR is a valuation of all the home 
contents  not just the damaged room that was inspected on the initial visit by Coveas 
assessor. So Im unable to agree that this was something that shouldve been done within a 
couple of days of the damage occurring, or by the same assessor.
Although it may not have been clear why Covea chose to pay £790 for replacement of the 
damaged wallpaper after receiving notification that this was no longer part of the claim, Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs M received £790 more than theyd claimed for their damaged 
items. I dont consider it appropriate to direct Covea to pay interest in those circumstances.
I do recognise that Mr and Mrs M have had a difficult time and the claims process hasnt 
gone as smoothly as they couldve hoped. It wasnt my intent for any of my provisional 
findings to make little of the situation they have faced. But Im not persuaded that the time 
taken to resolve the matter has been due to inexpediency or inefficiency on the part of 
Covea, and this being so, I dont see that any recompense for time taken is merited here. 
Based on the comments Mr and Mrs M have supplied, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
Although I realise Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with this decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman