DRN-3856864
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs P complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the 
claim they made under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA), 
and also under section 138D of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr R and Mrs P are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around October 2013, Mr R and Mrs P were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr R and Mrs P decided 
to purchase the system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In June 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr R and Mrs Ps behalf under 
sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a 
number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was 
these misrepresentations that had induced Mr R and Mrs P to enter into the contract with P. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity which they could sell to the national grid;
their energy bills would be reduced and so they would be financially better off;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
The CMC also argued that an unfair relationship had arisen between the parties, by reason 
of these misrepresentations and also due to commission having allegedly been paid 
between Shawbrook and P.
The CMC also claimed damages, under section 138D of FSMA, for alleged breaches of 
various FCA rules. These included failing to provide accurate information and failing to 
provide pre-contractual information about the loan.
Shawbrook issued a final response and said that the limitation period for bringing a claim 
had expired, as it had been more than six years since the sale.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator thought that as the allegedly unfair 
relationship was still subsisting, the limitation period had not yet begun to run for a claim 
under section 140A of the CCA. But she didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to 
Mr R and Mrs P and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the estimated savings and payback time (when the income and savings from the 
panels would cover their price) given in the quote had been based on the cash price, 
and had not taken into account the cost of the loan;
the estimated savings had been based on a higher rate (16.5p/kWh) than the actual 
rate that Mr R and Mrs P had been paying at the time of the sale (but there is no 
evidence of how much they had been paying);
the quote was misleading about what percentage of electricity would be exported to 
the grid, with the result that the estimated savings were inflated by about £120 in the 
first year;
the system would not pay for itself until year 17, whereas the quote had indicated 11 
years;
neither the quote nor the credit agreement adequately show how the cost of the 
system compares with its benefits;
P pays its salesmen between £500 and £750 commission per sale, creating an 
incentive to be dishonest and exaggerate the advantages of having the system.
In support of some of these points, the CMC relied on findings made by the High Court in a 
recent case, Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm).
The adjudicator did not change her mind so, as an agreement couldnt be reached, the case 
has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 140A of the CCA, and also the 
Limitation Act 1980.
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mr R and Mrs P, as debtors, and P, as the 
supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. However I have seen no evidence of that happening. The CMC also says 
that P paid commission to its own salesmen for each sale and thereby created an incentive 
to lie or exaggerate. Rather than infer that Ps salesman must have lied or exaggerated to 
Mr R and Mrs P, I have looked into the available evidence about what they were probably 
told.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
I have considered what was said in the Hodgson judgement, but that case was about a 
different supplier, which had different sales documentation and practices. I derived only 
limited assistance from it, and my main focus in this case has been to investigate what P and 
Shawbrook did.Limitation periods
Shawbrook sought to rely on the Limitation Act to say that Mr R and Mrs Ps claim was time-
barred. The normal limitation period is six years from the time the cause of action accrues. 
So far as the claims under section 75 of the CCA and section 138D of FSMA are concerned, 
that period had expired, so I agree that Shawbrook was entitled to take that stance. 
However, I also agree with our adjudicators opinion that the limitation period for a claim 
under section 140A of the CCA has not yet begun to run, since the allegedly unfair 
relationship between the parties still exists. I have therefore considered the merits of that 
claim to see whether Shawbrook ought to have upheld it.
Evidence
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr R and Mrs P say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and the solar quote. Ive considered these, along with Mr R and Mrs Ps 
testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to 
have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr R and Mrs P, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr R and 
Mrs Ps version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
Pre-contractual information
Under FCA rules today, Shawbrook is under a regulatory duty to provide pre-contractual 
information to its potential customers before they enter into a consumer credit agreement. 
However, in 2013 these rules were not yet in force. I have instead considered Consumer 
Credit (Disclosure of Information) Regulations 2010, which require pre-contractual 
information to be given in writing. 
I have also considered the Office of Fair Tradings guidance published in Credit brokers and 
intermediaries (2011). This did not impose any regulatory requirement, but as well as 
regulations I also have regard for industry guidance issued by relevant bodies, and I think 
that this publication certainly qualifies. In particular, it says in paragraph 4.31 that providing information or explanation that is unclear, inaccurate or misleading or is not readily 
comprehensible is an unfair or improper practice.
Although the CMC raised this issue in the context of a claim under section 138D (which I am 
not considering), I think it is also relevant to the claim under section 140A.
However, if any written pre-contractual information was given to Mr R or Mrs P in 2013, 
I would not expect them or Shawbrook (or P) to have still retained a copy  or any other 
record of that happening  as late as eight years later, when this claim was first brought to 
Shawbrook. Businesses are not generally expected to keep information for as long as that, 
and after the passage of this much time, I would not expect consumers to remember being 
given pre-contractual information (if it was given to them). For these reasons, although 
I have found that the Limitation Act does not bar Mr R and Mrs Ps claim under section 140A, 
I do not think it would be fair of me to uphold a complaint about this issue against Shawbrook 
after so long, as there is so little evidence left on the point and because Shawbrooks ability 
to defend itself will have been diminished by the loss of the relevant records. So I think that 
this complaint issue has been raised too late for me to fairly uphold it now.
Even if I took a different view about that, and if I did find that the pre-contractual information 
had not been provided, I would have thought that this error would have been substantially 
mitigated by the fact that all of the required information was given in the loan agreement, and 
that the system was not installed until seven weeks later, so Mr R and Mrs P had the 
opportunity to read it all and to change their mind within the cooling-off period.
The cost of the system
The cash price was set out clearly in the quote and in the credit agreement as £9,240. 
However, the overall cost to Mr R and Mrs P was more than that, due to them paying for the 
system using an interest-bearing loan. This was shown clearly in the quote, where there is a 
table setting out the loan repayments over 15 years. It says that Mr R and Mrs P will have to 
make 180 monthly payments of £100.17. This information is repeated in the credit 
agreement, along with the total amount payable, £18,030.60. So I think it was made clear to 
Mr R and Mrs P how much they would really have to pay. They were not tricked into thinking 
they had an interest-free loan.
FIT payments and savings
Mr R and Mrs P have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr R and Mrs Ps recollections of 
their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The quote sets out the estimated income Mr R and Mrs P could expect to receive by way of 
FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT payments in the first 
year and the expected average income over 20 years. (The FIT scheme only provides 
payments for a 20-year period.) I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr R and 
Mrs P could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of £614.93.The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr R and Mrs P could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings are £412.34. (I will come back later to 
how this was calculated.)
The combined income and savings in year one are then shown as £1,027.27. This is shown 
in a table titled Putting it all together.
This results in an average monthly income of £85.61. Im satisfied that the same document 
set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £100.17. As a result, Im not 
able to conclude that Mr R and Mrs P were told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments and savings.
That last figure appears in a section headed PSP Scheme Repayment Options where there 
is a table showing repayments over 180 months (the length of the loan that Mr R and Mrs P 
entered into with Shawbrook). This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly 
payments of £100.17. For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first year of the loan (highlighted in red  the profitable years are in green), meaning that the 
system would not make enough money to cover the loan payments until year two. The 
shortfall is not very much, only £2.33 a month. Nevertheless, I think it still it demonstrates 
that Mr R and Mrs P were not told that the system would begin to literally pay for the loan 
payments immediately. (I will deal with what happened in the second year in the section 
below titled System performance.)
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr R and Mrs P could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about 
Mr R and Mrs Ps version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central 
part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think 
I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
completely covered by the FIT income and savings straight away.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr R and Mrs P that the system would be self-funding from 
the outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely 
to have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be fully self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the 
quote at the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected 
income and the monthly loan repayments to start with.
That said, I do accept that Mr R and Mrs P were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Summary of Returns page of the quote states in large font that it would take six years 
for the overall benefits that Mr R and Mrs P could expect to receive to match the cash price 
of the system. This figure also appears in the Putting it all together table.
Another page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system 
over 25 years. This too shows that during year six the overall benefits that Mr R and Mrs P 
could expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system. (I have not shown that 
here due to the poor quality of the copy provided.)
The same table also shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement would 
be reached by the end of year 11. That amount is not shown in the quote but only in the loan 
agreement, but as Ive said above, Im satisfied that the quote did make it clear that the solar 
panels would cost more than their cash price.
So Im satisfied that P told Mr R and Mrs P that the system would pay for its cash price in six 
years, and for the loan in about eleven years. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and if 
Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 17 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr R and Mrs P. But before I get to that, I will first deal with 
how the savings on their electricity bills were calculated.
Calculation of energy savings
In the absence of any evidence of how much Mr R and Mrs P were paying for their electricity 
at the time of the sale, I will assume that 16.5p/kWh was a reasonable rate for P to have 
used.
The table headed Your electricity bill savings shows in the first row that the total amount of 
energy that the system was expected to generate was 3,570 kWh. The next row is described 
as Allowance for Personal Usage, which shows how much electricity Mr R and Mrs P were 
expected to use for themselves before the remainder was exported to the grid. That figure is 
2,499; multiplied by 16.5p this gives £412.34.
2,499 is 70% of 3,570, which leaves only 30% to be exported, but below the table it says that 
the export rate is estimated at 50%. I agree with the CMC that this is contradictory and 
confusing, since clearly the export rate actually used in this calculation was lower than that.
I know from other cases that P tailored the personal usage rate based on what it knew about 
the customer and how they used electricity, and then referring to tables compiled by an 
industry body (the Microgeneration Certification Scheme, or MCS). For example, since solar 
power would be generated in daylight hours, a person that is usually home during the 
daytime is able to use more of the power generated than someone who only tends to be 
home during the evenings.
I think it would certainly have been helpful if the quote had explained that, but it didnt. So 
I think that P fell into error here, in that it provided information which was not accurate and 
clear. This was a contravention of paragraph 3.1 of the OFT guidance I have cited above.
However, I do not think that giving the wrong export rate in the quote amounts to a 
misrepresentation. If the quote had given the export rate of 30% which P actually used, 
instead of 50%, it does not seem likely to me that Mr R and Mrs P would have chosen not to 
buy the system. I think they would have been guided by the figure of £412.34, rather than by 
how that amount was worked out. (I am assuming for the purposes of this paragraph that 
£412.34 is correct; I deal later on with whether or not it is.)
I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the personal usage rate based on the 
information available to it. That remains the case even if the savings have not in fact been as 
high as estimated. The savings will be dependent upon how electricity is used in the home 
and that is beyond Ps control. The quote included the following clarification in the section 
about electricity bill savings: The amounts saved will depend on the amounts used. So 
I dont think the estimated savings were presented as being guaranteed.
I have considered an alternative error: if the saving estimate of £412.34 was wrong, because 
of the use of an inflated personal usage rate of 70% (which corresponds to an export rate of 
30%, instead of the 50% given in the quote). If an export rate of 50% had been used to 
calculate the savings, then the savings in year one would have been only £294.53. The 
difference is £117.80. (This is how the CMC puts its case, although it arrived at a very 
slightly different figure to mine.)
Since I have found that P was entitled to calculate the energy savings based on a tailored 
personal usage rate, I cant say that the estimated savings were wrong just because they 
were not based on an export rate of 50%. Instead, I have considered whether the savings 
were misrepresented by looking into why Mr R and Mrs P have not seen the savings they 
were expecting to get. 
System performance: energy generation and financial returns
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,570 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr R and Mrs Ps FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 3,599 kWh a year. This is almost exactly as estimated by P at the 
point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr R and Mrs P have not seen the expected 
financial returns is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data from previous years to calculate the utility 
price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020, 
and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think this 
explains why Mr R and Mrs P havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower. (However, this will have improved with recent increases in 
energy prices.)
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr R and Mrs P could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr R and Mrs P entered into the 
contract.
I also think that the quote did make clear that other outcomes were possible, since it 
included graphs based on inflation being 0% throughout, and inflation being half the rate it 
used in the other tables. It also stated in the section about the ONS that: In reality the return 
may be higher or lower depending on the actual growth.
It follows that I cant infer that the estimated savings of £412.34 on their energy bills in year 
one must have been wrong just because these savings were not in fact realised. That could 
have been entirely because past changes in energy prices and inflation did not accurately 
predict future changes. So I am unable to conclude that the estimated savings were a 
misrepresentation.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact or opinion made by P that caused an 
unfair relationship to arise, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman