Page 1 of 5The complaint
Mr M has two complaints about Morses Club PLC. The first is that Morses lent to him 
irresponsibly in September 2021.
The second is that when he wanted to reborrow 10 weeks later the policy had been changed 
(in August 2021) to mean he was not able to ask for more credit until 26 weeks had passed. 
Mr M says this was wrong. He says he was mis-led and he was let down as he wanted to 
obtain further credit in December 2021 for Christmas presents and he was unable to do that.  
What happened
Mr M was approved for one loan in September 2021. It was for £300 with a repayment 
schedule of 35 weeks of £15 each.
I have seen a statement of account and some screenshots where Mr M was texting his 
agent on 1 December 2021 to enquire about further lending. He was told Ive just had a look 
at your account there is no offers on your account at the moment to which Mr M replied 
Does that mean I am not eligible or that I have to wait until after the 10th week? and the 
agent replied 10th week something should come up Ill give you a message as soon as 
something appears.
By 1 December 2021 Mr M had paid off 10 weeks and his outstanding balance was £375. 
Mr M had paid off the loan by 19 April 2022. 
On 20 December 2021 Mr M wrote a follow-up email to the complaint he had made to 
Morses about the inability to re-apply and/or re-borrow from Morses after 10 weeks. And the 
points in that email assist me to list the complaint points. I have summarised them here:
Mr M was told he could have the option of further lending after 10 weeks
The Morses APP (on-line application portal) stated 10 weeks
The policy changed in August 2021 and so the APP had been wrong for four months
Mr Ms sole reason of choosing Morses was around this option and would  tie in
nicely for Christmas so Mr M was disappointed to be told it was 26 weeks before he
could apply to reborrow
Mr M says that rules cannot be changed after a loan agreement has been signed
DRN-3465759Page 2 of 5Mr M also commenced a complaint about the irresponsible lending of his one loan in 
February 2022 which came after the issue surrounding the 10 week and 26 week issue. 
Morses issued two final responses (FRLs). The first was in relation to the 10 week/26 week 
issue and it said as follows (summarised by me):
Morses accepted that the necessary action was not taken to make the changes on 
the system when our credit policy was amended to further lending being after 
26 weeks rather than 10.
Morses resolution was to apologise for the distress and inconvenience and to assure 
Mr M that the  systems notifications will be brought up to date with our credit policy. 
When Mr M first emailed the Financial Ombudsman Service on 30 December 2021 sending 
to us the FRL about the 10/26 week issue and explaining why he felt he was due some 
compensation, he said:
This misleading Information and indecent lending on the site, and backed up by the 
agent was the main reason of choosing morse club and feel I am owed 
compensation for misleading information and even more so by the agent confirming 
the misleading information as resent [sic] as December. This company habe [sic] 
stated several times they are at fault, my complaint is upheld but refuse to 
compensate Mr [sic] for the irresponsible lending.
Mr M repeated his submissions to us in February 2022.
One of our adjudicators made enquires with Morses and received information from it about 
both the irresponsible lending complaint and this 10/26 week issue.
On irresponsible lending our adjudicator looked at the information Morses had from Mr M 
and the details it had obtained from the credit search it had carried out and she thought that 
Morses had done nothing wrong.
One the other issue surrounding the 10/26 week issue then our adjudicator addressed it as a 
misleading information and false advertising complaint. Our adjudicator thought 
(summarised by me):
Morses had confirmed that the policy changed from 10 weeks to 26 weeks in 
August 2021
Around December 2021 there was a technical issue which meant that some 
customers were seeing that they could apply after 10 weeks and this was wrong
Our adjudicator had seen that Morses had apologised and she considered whether 
Morses had done enough. She felt that Morses had. 
Our adjudicator further explained that not every bit of wrongdoing necessarily led to 
compensation. That even if Mr M had been able to apply for a new loan that 
application would have been subject to the affordability checks all lenders have to 
carry out and so she was not able to conclude that Mr M had lost out by not being 
able to apply when he wanted to apply. 
Our adjudicators view was  Im satisfied that Morses Club accepted that they had made an 
error and that they took steps to look into this and make the relevant changes. In this 
instance, I think them acknowledging this and apologising for any upset this had caused you Page 3 of 5is a fair and reasonable outcome. So I wont be asking them to do anything further to put 
things right.
Mr M was not satisfied and so the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Irresponsible lending
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Morses needed to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it 
should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Mr M was a new customer to Morses. He was applying for a relatively modest amount for a 
relatively short loan term. Morses obtained details of his income and expenditure which 
showed he was able to afford the £15 a week. And for a relatively modest first loan I would 
not have expected Morses to do much more. Page 4 of 5Morses carried out checks which I consider proportionate. It did not need to do a credit 
search before lending but as it did I have reviewed the results. There was nothing in those 
results which would necessarily have alerted Morses to Mr M having a problem or not being 
able to afford the loan.
Ive noticed in Mr Ms complaint form he hand wrote an additional few points, one of which 
was he said he had a gambling addiction and had been on a self exclusion from gambling 
until August 2021. Mr M added that the money from Morses went straight into gambling  
have relapsed which has put a strain on my family life.
I am sorry to hear of the gambling concerns and I wish Mr M well with that. 
If Mr M is wanting to know why Morses lent to him when he had this issue, then I can answer 
that. Unless Mr M told Morses about this at the time of the application  and theres nothing 
in the details I have seen which indicates that he did do that  then Morses would not have 
known of this. And I would not have expected it to have known of this. And it would have 
been disproportionate to expect Morses to have done anything further that it did for a first 
loan from a new customer. 
I do not uphold this part of Mr Ms complaint.
The 10week/26 week issue
Looking to the heart of this part of Mr Ms complaint, essentially Mr M is saying that he 
wanted a loan before Christmas 2021, and he was disappointed and likely frustrated he 
could not apply. He says it was because he wanted the money for Christmas 2021. 
Morses has accepted it did wrong and has explained why and has apologised. It has upheld 
his complaint and so I need not review that part. It was resolved.
Mr M has referred this part of his complaint to us because he feels that compensation is due.
I have seen some emails which were passed between colleagues within Morses relating to 
the 10 and 26 week issue. And it gives some insight into what is behind the policy. And 
having considered irresponsible lending complaints with this and many other home credit 
companies over a long period, then I consider it a good reason. 
The reason seems to be that this embargo on being able to apply for further lending is to act 
as a stop gap and is part of its forbearance approach. It is to stop people repeatedly and 
persistently applying for loans without there being a gap. The 10 weeks stop period was 
enlarged to be 26 weeks which would have been an internal policy issue for it to decide 
upon. So, I do not consider it to be a measure to cause irritation and upset to the consumer 
applying to it, but a measure to enforce an element of stop and forbearance. 
I agree with our adjudicator that it may have been the case that had Mr M been able to apply 
before December 2021 then he may not have secured the credit. Each loan would have 
been reviewed on its own merits and so I am not able to consider that Mr M necessarily lost 
out as his second application may have been refused. As for the disappointment about being 
able to obtain credit before Christmas 2021, that may have been inconvenient but there was 
nothing to stop Mr M applying elsewhere.  I do not consider any compensation is due.
Mr M has mentioned that he does not think that rules can be changed after an agreement 
has been signed. This issue of the 10 and 26 week stop period was a policy issue and not 
likely written into the credit agreement. Page 5 of 5I do not have a copy of that agreement given to Mr M in September 2021 but I have 
reviewed the standard form of Morses agreements which I have from another complaint and 
dated 22 September 2021 and Mr Ms was 20 September 2021. These are the agreements 
which I have seen issued over several years on Morses accounts and so I consider it very 
likely to be the same, or very similar, the one Mr M would have received.
Using that copy Morses credit agreement and using what I know of these types of 
agreement I can see that there is no reborrowing clause and I think it was very unlikely that 
there was a reborrowing clause in Mr Ms agreement. And if I am wrong on that, and there 
was such a term in the agreement, then as I have already pointed out, all applications are 
subject to affordability checks and so there was not likely going to be a promise or indication 
to Mr M that his second loan would be approved. 
I do not consider that this is something that warrants a compensation payment for not being 
able to apply for a loan which he may not have been approved for even if he had applied for 
it. 
Another strand of Mr Ms complaint seems to be that this was mis-leading advertising and if 
that is the case then that would be a matter for the regulator  the FCA  to address and not 
us. That relates to financial promotions. We have no influence on the commercial activities 
or policy making of a commercial lending organisation. We deal with financial complaints to 
decide if a party has done something wrong. Morses accepted it had got this wrong in 
relation to the information Mr M was given. 
Here, Morses has agreed that it did something wrong. And as it did so in the FRL which was 
before it was referred to the Financial Ombudsman, then that part was resolved at that point. 
And so, I consider it a non-uphold.
I do not consider it necessarily attracts any compensatory element. So, I do not uphold this 
part of Mr Ms complaint about wanting to be compensated.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman