DRN-2965431
The complaint
  This complaint is about the service Mr A received when he tried to arrange a mortgage on 
the advice and recommendation of JM Financial (UK) Limited.
What happened
 The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr A and JM. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent 
to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are published, 
the circumstances of this dispute are a little unusual, and its important that I dont include 
any information that might result in Mr A being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in 
my own words and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr A wanted to buy a house; his plan was to raise a mortgage of his own on the house he 
wanted to buy, meanwhile his mother would raise a mortgage on her own home to provide 
him with a deposit. Both transactions were to be arranged by JM. A decision-in-principle was 
obtained from a lender Ill call T, but soon after JM told Mr A it wouldnt be able to get him a 
residential mortgage after all. Instead JM submitted an application for short-term bridging 
finance from an unregulated lender, which also aborted. A few months later, Mr A succeeded 
in obtaining a residential mortgage through another intermediary.
JM blamed the failure to get a residential mortgage on a change in Mr As employment 
status (he went from being employed to contracted self-employment during the application 
period) and his apparent failure to disclose existing debt. Also, Mr A had just taken on a new, 
substantial credit commitment. Mr A accepts he took out the new credit commitment but said 
JM knew about the existing debt and change of employment. He also pointed out that a 
different broker had managed to get him a residential mortgage without any difficulty over his 
employment record and proof of earnings.
When the case came to us, we explained that we could only look into the abortive attempt to 
arrange the residential mortgage. Thats because our jurisdiction doesnt cover the advising 
on, or arranging of, unregulated lending by mortgage brokers. Our investigator asked both 
parties to provide their version of events, with evidence to back it up. Both parties gave their 
version of events, but only Mr A provided supporting evidence. 
Working with what was available, the investigator wasnt persuaded JM had shown it had 
done enough to assist Mr A in obtaining what he had approached it for; that is, a residential 
mortgage. The investigator looked at the costs Mr A had incurred (albeit some related to his 
mothers application) and recommended that to settle the complaint, JM should:
refund £747.50 Mr A paid it for advice in connection with the residential mortgage;
reimburse £776.42 Mr A paid in abortive conveyancing costs: and
pay Mr A £250 compensation for his time, trouble and upset.
Mr A accepted the investigators assessment; despite reminders, weve had no response 
from JM.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a complaint, where we should get it 
from, and what weight we should attach to it once we have it. Having read everything that 
both parties have said and provided, Im satisfied JM has had ample time to make its final 
submission (the investigators view was dated 14 July 2021) and that I have all that I need 
(in any event, all that I am likely to get) to determine this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
JM never followed up Ts decision-in-principle with a formal application, so it can never be 
known if what it told Mr A was accurate or not. I cant be sure whether a residential mortgage 
application would have succeeded or not, had it been made. All I have to go on is that Mr A 
did get a residential mortgage a few month later despite not having the proof of income JM 
told him hed need. Meanwhile, the evidence Mr A has given us points to JM being aware of 
Mr As existing debts (albeit not the new one) and his change of employment status.
Ultimately when considering any complaint like this, as Mr A is the one bringing the 
complaint against JM, for me to uphold the complaint requires Mr As argument to be more 
likely than JMs argument; not just as likely. Having considered everything before me 
presently, I find Mr As account of events a little more plausible than JMs; not by much, but it 
doesnt need to be. Overall, whilst not entirely convincing, Mr As account of events (which 
has the benefit of at least partial corroboration by the evidence he has provided) strikes me 
as slightly more likely than JMs. Im not persuaded JM did enough to try and secure the 
residential mortgage that Mr A paid it to find him. Thats why this complaint succeeds.
 
My final decision
  I uphold this complaint; in full and final settlement, I direct JM Financial (UK) Limited to:
refund £747.50 Mr A paid it for advice in connection with the residential mortgage;
reimburse £776.42 Mr A paid in abortive conveyancing costs: and
pay Mr A £250 compensation for his time, trouble and upset.I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman