DRN-2801351
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Europ Assistance S.A (EA) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr and Mrs D were due to fly on holiday. Unfortunately, a few days before 
their booked departure date, Mrs D broke her wrist and so they werent able to travel as 
planned. Mr and Mrs D made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs of their 
cancelled flights - £205.80.
EA turned down the claim. Mr and Mrs D hadnt provided a no-show letter from their airline. 
The terms of the policy stated that this evidence would need to be provided in order for EA to 
consider a cancellation claim. Mr and Mrs D asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. He noted that Mr 
and Mrs D hadnt used the right contact details for the airline to try and get the evidence EA 
required. He felt EA was entitled to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ds claim was valid.
Mr and Mrs D tried to get in touch with the airline to obtain a no-show letter. But the airline 
didnt respond. So they asked EA to look at their claim again. EA maintained that it would 
need the no-show letter before it would consider the claim. Mr and Mrs D therefore asked us 
to investigate a new complaint about whether it was fair for EA to maintain its position, 
despite the attempts theyd made to obtain the no-show letter from their airline.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should now be upheld. He accepted that 
Mr and Mrs D still hadnt been able to obtain a no-show letter. But he felt theyd made 
reasonable attempts to try and get this evidence from their airline. And Mr and Mrs D had 
provided us with a copy of their bank statement, which showed that theyd been in the UK on 
the day theyd been due to travel. So he felt this was sufficient evidence to show that Mr and 
Mrs D hadnt travelled as planned. On this basis, he thought EA should now consider and 
deal with Mr and Mrs Ds claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
EA disagreed. It said a further purpose of the no-show letter was to show the cancellation 
costs a policyholder had incurred. It said it had directed Mr and Mrs D to their airline several 
times to obtain a no-show letter and it didnt understand why they werent able to provide it.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think EA has treated Mr and Mrs D fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in making my decision, Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Ds policy and the circumstances of their 
claim, to decide if EA handled it fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Mr and Mrs Ds policy, as these form the basis of their 
contract with EA. I can see that the Claims Evidence section of the policy sets out the 
information EA requires in order to look at a claim. For cancellation claims, one of the things 
EA requires is a:
Booking confirmation together with a cancellation invoice from (airline), tour operator or 
provider of accommodation.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs D havent been able to provide EA with a cancellation 
invoice or no-show letter from their airline. On a strict interpretation of the policy terms then, I 
agree that they havent provided EA with the evidence it needs to assess the claim. 
Generally, its a fundamental principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide 
enough evidence to show they have a valid claim. In the case of a cancellation claim, for 
example, an insurer is entitled to be satisfied that a policyholder didnt travel; hasnt received 
a refund and that the claim happened because of something the policy covers. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable for EA to conclude that Mr and Mrs D hadnt complied with the 
contractual requirement to provide this evidence.  
But I can depart from a strict application of the policy terms if I feel they produce an unfair 
result. In this case, Ive seen emails Mr D sent to the airline following his first complaint to 
our service. He specifically requested a no-show letter for the flights hed booked. But theres 
nothing to suggest that the airline responded to Mr D, or sent him the information hed 
requested. (And given the time thats passed since the trip was cancelled, its possible there 
are no longer any records). So I think Mr D has taken reasonable and appropriate steps to 
try and obtain this evidence from the airline.
And I too have seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds bank statement for the date they were due to 
travel. I can see spending in and around their local area during that day. Given their flight 
was due to take off at 6.30am and fly to a different country, it seems highly unlikely that Mr D 
wouldve been able to make local payments if hed travelled as planned. There are also no 
international transactions shown on the statements. On this basis, Im satisfied that its more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs D did cancel their trip. Ive also seen medical evidence which 
shows Mrs D had suffered a fracture and was undergoing treatment. Altogether then, I think 
this builds a compelling picture that its most likely the trip was cancelled due to Mrs Ds 
injury.
I think EA has been provided with sufficient evidence now that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to deal with the claim based on information it has. While I can understand 
why it generally requires a no-show letter, in these circumstances, I think it would be fair for 
it to assess the claim in line with information it already has. And I dont think the lack of a 
cancellation invoice means that it cant fairly calculate the value of any settlement. I see no 
reason why it cant fairly use the value of Mr and Mrs Ds flight booking to work out what a 
potential settlement should be. Ive seen nothing to suggest theyve received any refund from their airline or that theyd be entitled to one under EU regulations. So I think the fair 
outcome here is for EA to use Mr and Mrs Ds booking cost to calculate what settlement is 
due, if it concludes payment is due. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Europ Assistance S.A to deal with Mr and Mrs Ds claim, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy and any applicable excess. To any settlement paid, it must 
add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date it declined the claim a second time.
If Europ Assistance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should 
also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman