DRN-3642840
The complaint
R, a company, complains that Funding Circle Ltd treated it unfairly by applying a default to a
loan and providing poor customer service.
The complaint is brought on Rs behalf by its directors, Mr and Mrs P. For ease Ill refer to
Mr P throughout the decision.
What happened
R took out a loan of around £100,000 with Funding Circle in March 2019. In March 2020, R
was told by the government to cease trading due to the Coronavirus pandemic (the
pandemic). Mr P contacted Funding Circle to ask for financial assistance as he thought R
would struggle to meet its loan repayments.
Funding Circle initially agreed a short-term payment plan (STPP) giving R a three-month
repayment holiday from April to June. This would allow R to fall three months into arrears,
but it would need to start making repayments before the arrears had reached four months or
the loan would be defaulted. The STPP also said that the outstanding arrears would need to
be cleared within 15 months of the date they began accruing.
In June, Funding Circle extended the timescale for a default to occur to seven months. At the
end of June, Mr P approached Funding Circle again and was told the STPP could be
extended for a further three months, but the lender would need to take additional security to
provide this. Due to ongoing discussions with Mr P, Funding Circle waived the additional
security request and agreed to provide another STPP from July to September. The STPP
again confirmed the terms of default and that the outstanding arrears would need to be
cleared. During this period, R continued to accrue arrears on its loan account.
Funding Circle offered another STPP in September, but R applied for a Bounce Back Loan
(BBL) with Funding Circle instead - which was accepted. Its not clear if Mr P intended to
repay some or all of the arrears on Rs loan using the BBL funds. However, Funding Circle 
didnt give R the option. The lender automatically deducted the full amount of arrears from
the BBL balance and paid R the remaining funds of around £27,000. Mr P was unhappy with
the lenders actions as he said the whole balance should have been paid to R. The BBL was
reversed in October 2020. R has also complained about Funding Circles actions in relation
to the BBL which are the subject of a separate complaint to us.
The reversal of the BBL meant the six-months of arrears totalling around £14,350 were
reinstated to the original loan account. Funding Circle continued to have discussions with
Mr P about how R would both clear the outstanding arrears and make the monthly
repayments moving forward.
In April and May 2021, R made its monthly repayments. However shortly after it had made
the May repayment, Funding Circle defaulted Rs loan on the basis that R had accrued more
than 180 days of arrears. Funding Circle subsequently issued a formal demand for the
outstanding loan balance and a collections charge of £7,500.
Over a period of around eighteen months, Mr P brought several complaints to Funding
Circle. In summary he said:
He was unhappy with the decision to default Rs loan and that the loan agreement
   didnt contain a Force Majeure clause.
The lender hadnt proactively offered R a repayment holiday.
Hed requested a redemption statement and an account statement for Rs loan which
hadnt been received.
The lender hadnt responded to his correspondence and requests in a timely manner.
When hed called Funding Circle, the noise on the line had been distracting and the
call hander wasnt able to help with his query.
The complaint handler whod responded did so without listening to the call he was
unhappy about
The lender had sent Mr P text messages after hed cancelled Rs Direct Debit
payments.
Funding Circle upheld some of Mr Ps complaints. The lender apologised that it hadnt been
able to respond to Mr P as quickly as it would have liked, however it said it had faced
unprecedented demand due to the pandemic and had put FAQs online and sent text
messages to assist customers. The lender also said it had apologised that Mr P was
unhappy with the members of staff hed spoken to, but it didnt think they had done anything
wrong. However, Funding Circle paid R £150 as a gesture of goodwill because Mr P was
unhappy with the service hed received from the lender.
Funding Circle said there had been a breakdown in its relationship with Mr P and asked that
he only communicates in writing. It also said it had defaulted the loan in line with the
agreement terms as Mr P asked for the BBL to be reversed which meant R had exceeded
the maximum missed payments before the default was applied  despite the bank
repeatedly explaining R needed to make the repayments or this action would be taken. Mr P
remained unhappy with Funding Circles response and asked this service to look into Rs
complaint.
Our investigator recommended Rs complaint be upheld. She thought Funding Circle had 
unfairly defaulted Rs loan as she didnt think it had clearly explained to R when the company
would need to repay the arrears it was accruing under the STPP. She also thought Funding
Circle hadnt provided the level of service it should have in responding quickly to Mr Ps
questions or providing a dedicated contact for him. However she didnt think that the loan
agreement needed to contain the terms Mr P wanted, or that the lenders errors had caused
R any financial loss. So to put things right she recommended the arrears be removed from
Rs credit history and further compensation of £450 for the inconvenience caused.
Funding Circle didnt agree. The lender said it had defaulted Rs loan correctly as it had told
Mr P since the arrears were reinstated in October 2020 that R needed to maintain its
repayments - or it would go past the 180-day default threshold. The lender also said it had
written to Mr P every month to confirm this until the loan was eventually defaulted in May
2021.
Funding Circle also said it had tried to support R with specific contacts, but Mr P had made a
complaint about each member of staff, so it hadnt been able to do so. The lender also didntagree with the £450 compensation, as it said it had already paid R £150 for inconvenience 
but it agreed to increase this to £300. Funding Circle also said that R already held a BBL
when it had applied for one with it  so R had been in breach of the BBL Scheme rules when
it had received the loan which had cleared the arrears.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 July 2022. I said the following:
Support for R during the pandemic
Mr P believes that Funding Circle didnt support the business during the Coronavirus
pandemic. Mr P says the lender didnt contact him to say that there were options in 
place to assist R when it was experiencing financial difficulties. And that this 
contributed to Funding Circle defaulting Rs loan which was unfair. However, Im not 
persuaded thats the case.
When Mr P contacted Funding Circle for financial assistance in March 2020, Ive 
seen that the lender agreed to an STPP for R from April to June. This meant that R 
didnt need to make any repayments for those three months. The lender also agreed 
a further STPP from July to September. This was the maximum timescale of six 
months that Funding Circle could allow a borrower not to make a repayment before 
an event of default would occur in month seven when the arrears reached 180 days.
Ive also seen that the lender explained to Mr P that normally Rs credit rating would 
be affected due to the STTP, but due to the pandemic it was requesting authority 
from the credit reference agencies and government that this didnt happen. Funding 
Circle also agreed to waive the requirement for additional security that it had 
requested to support the second STPP when Mr P was unhappy to provide it  and 
gave the STPP rather than default the loan.
I think Funding Circle did provide support to R for as long as it was able to, in line 
with the lenders terms and conditions and taking into consideration the wider 
circumstances at the time. I say this because Funding Circle extended Rs repayment 
holiday for a period of six months and then allowed it a prolonged period of 
forbearance after the arrears were reinstated on the loan. As a service we wouldnt 
expect a lender to allow forbearance indefinitely as it would increase the 
indebtedness of the borrower and its unfair for any investors.
Its clear that the lenders delay in replying to Mr Ps contact caused R 
inconvenience. However, Ive seen that Funding Circle has apologised for the delay 
in replying to Mr P and explained that that this took longer than it would have liked to 
respond due to the volume of enquires it received due to the pandemic. The lender 
also said that as a result of the increased enquiries, it wasnt able to proactively 
respond or contact its customers, so it had updated its online FAQs to assist them 
with which departments to speak to and actions they could take. I acknowledge this 
would have been frustrating for Mr P, but Funding Circle was entitled to set its own 
processes for handling enquiries, and I think this was a reasonable means of dealing 
with the high volumes of requests for support quickly.
Default of the loan
Mr P says that Funding Circle defaulted Rs loan unfairly, but I dont agree. I say this
because the original terms and conditions of Rs loan agreement say that an event of 
default would occur if the borrower missed, failed to pay, or didnt make a full monthly 
payment when due. Ive seen that this was initially extended to four monthly 
payments around March 2020, to take into consideration the impact of the 
Coronavirus pandemic. So the terms of Rs STPP reflected this change and the 
documentation that Funding Circle provided P, clearly explained that if the loan became four full repayments in arrears (i.e. 90 days from the first missed repayment) 
that Funding Circle would default the loan.
The STPP terms also said that R would need to attempt repayment of any arrears 
within 15 months  which in this case would be July 2021. Mr P said he found these 
two terms confusing and I agree they could have been seen as conflicting if read in 
isolation. However, Ive seen that Mr P confirmed his understanding of this 
agreement in his email to Funding Circle on 6 April and was aware that whatever the 
arrears amount was, this needed to be repaid before 15 months had passed from the 
date the arrears had commenced. So Im persuaded that Mr P was aware of the 
actions R needed to take in order to meet the contractual obligations of the STPP. I 
also think that if Mr P hadnt understood the terms, he could have contacted Funding 
Circle at this point to check what Rs obligations were under the agreement.
Due to the continued effect of the pandemic, Funding Circle varied its default policy 
again in June 2020 and increased this to seven months of arrears, or 180 days from 
the first missed repayment. The lender sent this update in a separate email to R. Mr 
P says he didnt see this as it was received with various other emails from Funding 
Circle. However, Ive seen that the update was sent to the same email address as 
the other correspondence so I cant reasonably hold it responsible for Mr P not 
receiving it. However, even if it wasnt received by Mr P, as this was of benefit to R, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for it to take effect without his acknowledgement or 
agreement.
Funding Circle then agreed to a further STPP for R in July, which meant the business 
didnt have to make any repayments for a further three months  allowing arrears to 
accrue until the end of September. I think it was clear that all the other terms 
remained the same so R would need to start making its loan repayments from 
October, so it didnt exceed the 180 days at which point the amended default policy 
would now take effect. I acknowledge that Mr P didnt sign and return the second 
STPP, however R didnt make any repayments during the three months and Funding 
Circle didnt contact R about them. I think the agreement between both parties was 
implied - and again, this was to the benefit of R - so I think it was reasonable of the 
lender to allow the second STPP to proceed.
Its not disputed by either party that Funding Circle made an error in September 2020 
 when the BBL was drawn down, and the lender cleared the outstanding arrears on 
Rs existing loan without prior notification. This caused inconvenience for R and has 
been dealt with as a separate complaint. However, the relevance to this complaint, is 
that Ive seen that Funding Circle emailed Mr P on 2 September  prior to the 
drawdown - to say that R was 147 days in arrears on its original loan. The lender also 
said that on 8 October, R would be 180 days in arrears on the loan and it either 
needed to start repayments or the loan would be defaulted.
When the BBL funds cleared the arrears on 11 September, R was no longer at risk of 
default from September to October as all the missed repayments had been cleared. 
However, due to the BBL error, Mr P requested that Funding Circle reverse the BBL 
drawdown and reinstate the arrears on Rs loan account. On 2 October, Ive seen 
that Funding Circle confirmed R could settle the BBL and the arrears would be 
reinstated. Ive also seen that it explained should Mr P choose this option, that R 
would be 210 days in arrears and that the business would need to make an 
immediate repayment to bring this within the 180-day limit or the loan would be 
defaulted. And that even if Mr P wished to complain about the lenders actions, R 
would still need to meet its repayment obligations.From November 2020 until April 2021, Funding Circle repeatedly responded to Mr 
Ps contact  often several times a month - to say that R was six months in arrears 
on its loan account and needed to maintain the repayments to prevent a default on 
the account. The lender also reconfirmed in December that the outstanding arrears 
payments would also need to be cleared before the end of the agreement in 
accordance with the STPPs. On 8 May, R didnt make its required repayment and on 
19 May the loan was defaulted.
Ive also seen that Funding Circle wrote to Mr P between October 2020 and April 
2021 to that Rs loan would default if the repayments werent made before the 
required date. I recognise that R did make a repayment in May, but this was two 
weeks after the repayment was due. I think the lenders emails confirming both the 
amount of repayment and when they needed to be made by were clear. So I think it 
was reasonable for Funding Circle to default Rs loan when Mays repayment wasnt 
made in time and the maximum limit of 180 days of arrears was exceeded.
It therefore follows that I wont be asking the lender to reinstate the loan or 
recommend that it doesnt call upon the personal guarantee. Mr P has also said he 
wants the default removed from Rs credit file, but lenders have a responsibility to 
report accurate information and as I think Funding Circle defaulted the loan fairly, I 
wont be asking the lender to do this. I also acknowledge that Mr P feels the issues 
with the BBL has contributed to the default of Rs loan, but those are the subject of a 
separate complaint, so I wont comment on them here.
Mr P has told us he feels that its unreasonable that Rs loan agreement didnt have a 
Force Majeure clause and that Funding Circle treated R unfairly by not 
communicating with investors on Rs behalf. However, Funding Circle wasnt 
obligated to include this clause in the agreement. Ive seen that the lender confirmed 
in the agreement that the terms were in accordance with English law and that if R 
had any doubts about the agreement, then it should seek independent legal advice 
before signing it. So if Mr P was concerned about the absence of this specific clause 
in the agreement, he ought reasonably to have raised this before agreeing to the loan 
terms and conditions.
Im also not persuaded Funding Circle treated R unfairly with regards to contact with 
the loan investors. Looking at the lending contract, this says that Funding Circle is 
the representative for the investors. It also says that Funding Circle would pass on 
information to the investors  not that it was obligated to provide contact details of the 
investors to Mr P. Funding Circle as the intermediary had the responsibility to look 
after both parties to the agreement - so I dont think it did anything wrong by declining 
Mr Ps request for this information as the investors may not have agreed to contact 
from borrowers. I also think its likely that Funding Circle did update the investors with 
regards to Rs situation as the lender would have needed to explain why Rs 
repayments werent being received and the action it was taking to resolve this and 
recover the investment.
Mr P says that R has incurred a significant financial loss, but I havent seen any 
evidence this was as a direct result of Funding Circles actions. I think its more likely 
that Rs turnover was affected by the wider impact of the Coronavirus pandemic and 
the restrictions put in place by the UK government at the time. So I cant reasonably 
hold Funding Circle responsible for the impact on R.
Customer serviceMr P has told us that he feels hes received poor customer service from Funding 
Circle and that the lender hasnt dealt with his complaints in a reasonable way. But 
Im not persuaded thats the case. I say this because Ive looked at the contact 
between both parties and I havent seen any evidence Funding Circle didnt respond 
to Mr Ps complaints. In fact it appears there were often several responses on 
different dates when Mr P wasnt satisfied with the response, or if the lender wanted 
to reconfirm a response and acknowledge it wouldnt enter into further discussion.
I also havent seen any evidence these werent investigated in full as both Mr P and 
Funding Circle have both provided a comprehensive chronology of the 
correspondence between both parties. I acknowledge that there were times Funding 
Circle hasnt been able to provide a response to Mr P in the timescales hes 
requested. However, the lender has confirmed it has a timescale to respond, and 
where it hasnt been able to meet this, it has apologised and provided an explanation. 
I think its also worth noting that Funding Circle did try and provide Mr P with specific 
contacts when he was unhappy with the lenders actions, but he was repeatedly 
unsatisfied with them. He was also asked not to contact Funding Circle by phone
as this wasnt productive for either party, but continued to do so, which caused 
further delays. So I think that Funding Circle dealt with Mr Ps complaints in a 
reasonable manner.
However, Funding Circle has apologised that Mr P didnt receive the service he 
expected and has offered a further £150 compensation  which it says is still 
available to R. Bearing in mind what Ive said about the cause of the error, I wont be 
asking it to pay more.
I recognise that Mr P feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen I dont think Funding Circle did anything 
wrong in defaulting Rs loan and how it reviewed Rs complaints. So I wont be asking 
it to do anything more.
I invited Mr P and Funding Circle to give me any more evidence and information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. Funding Circle accepted the decision and 
said it had nothing further to add. Mr P didnt agree. He said in summary:
Funding Circle did not fairly default the loan and did not take into consideration the 
exceptional circumstances of the pandemic. It also didnt adhere to the terms of the 
STPP agreements R had signed.  
When R was able to start trading again, it couldnt focus on the business and had to 
close two centres because of the lenders actions.
Funding Circle did not follow its complaints procedure, nor did it proactively support 
R. Any support given was only because Mr P fought for it.
Funding Circle didnt write to Mr P from November 2020 onwards, nor did it provide a 
link to the FAQs.
Funding Circle agreed they were in the wrong and upheld most of Mr Ps complaints, 
didnt provide the level of service that R expected and didnt give him a dedicated 
contact. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my original decision.
Firstly, Mr P has stated that there was an inaccuracy in my decision because on one 
occasion due to a typing error, I referred to Funding Circle as a bank rather than a lender. I 
However, this didnt have a bearing on my decision, nor did it change the context of the 
point, therefore my findings remain the same. 
Mr P has repeated that he feels Funding Circle didnt fairly default the loan or take into 
consideration the circumstances of the pandemic. However, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied that the lender did take into account the circumstances of the 
pandemic by extending the time period for a loan to default from three months (90 days) to 
six months (180 days) and noting in its correspondence with R that the reason for doing so 
was to support its customers during that period.
As per my provisional decision, I dont agree that Funding Circle defaulted the loan unfairly 
or that it failed to adhere to the STPP. Although the STPPs gave R an extended period to 
clear any arrears that had built up whilst it wasnt making the loan repayments, the 
agreements and subsequent email correspondence to Mr P also made clear that 180 days 
was the maximum amount of arrears that could build up on Rs account. In this case, R 
didnt make any additional payments towards the arrears before it was late with the May 
2021 repayment, and therefore exceeded the 180-day maximum arrears and the default was 
applied shortly after.
Mr P says that due to Funding Circles actions, he was unable to reopen two centres after 
the pandemic rules were relaxed. However, as I have explained in my provisional decision, I 
dont think Funding Circle made an error in defaulting the loan, and therefore it follows that it 
wouldnt be responsible for any losses that R incurred as a result of the default being 
applied.  
I recognise Mr P says that Finding Circle didnt adhere to its complaints procedure, or 
proactively support R. But I dont agree. I say this because the lenders procedures say that it 
will aim to resolve the complaint as soon as possible, but under the DISP rules - which set 
out the timescales for a lender to respond - it has up to eight weeks to issue its final 
response on a complaint. And Ive looked at the lenders complaint responses and I can see 
that these were usually issued within 21 days  which I think was reasonable given the wider 
circumstances caused by the pandemic. Ive also seen that when Mr P raised a complaint, 
Funding Circle responded but then Mr P would make a further complaint about the lenders 
response and the resolution provided or often the person who had provided the response, so 
the lender didnt think it could offer a dedicated contact. I think this was reasonable. 
Mr P says that Funding Circle upheld most of the complaints that he raised on Rs behalf 
which shows that the lender gave poor customer service and therefore R should receive 
more compensation. I dont intend to comment on this in detail, only to say that I considered 
all of the information relating to the complaints and customer service from both parties. And 
based on what Id seen, I recognised that Mr P was unhappy with Funding Circles customer 
service and its responses to Rs complaints. But I was satisfied that the lenders offer of an 
additional £150 on top of the £150 it had already paid was enough to put things right. 
Mr P also says Funding Circle didnt contact him from November 2020 onwards or provide a 
link to the FAQs. However, Ive seen copies of the emails which were sent to Mr P from 
November 2020, which refer him to the Funding Circle website where the FAQs can be 
found. The FAQs are still available on Funding Circles website and can be located by 
clicking the Help icon at the bottom of the page - so I dont agree with Mr Ps comment that 
this information doesnt exist.
Mr P says that R should receive more compensation for the service it has received from 
Funding Circle. He also says that all the invoices that he has sent to Funding Circle for his time should be paid and that he is unhappy with how our service makes awards for distress 
and inconvenience to businesses. But were governed by rules set by the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They're called the DISP rules and can be found in 
the FCA's handbook. They set out our approach to complaints, including that we can only 
look at complaints on behalf of an eligible complainant, which in this case is R, not Mr P. 
It therefore follows that I can only award compensation to R, and as a limited company 
cannot experience distress, I can only consider any inconvenience it has been caused. As I 
have explained, I wont be considering any inconvenience or costs incurred that arise from R 
applying for and obtaining the BBL that it wasnt entitled to. And for the times that R has 
experienced some inconvenience, Im not persuaded that it has been to such a level that it 
has impacted Mr Ps ability to run R completely. So I will not be asking Funding Circle to pay 
the invoices that Mr P has requested to settle the complaint.
So whilst I have considered Mr Ps comments in response to my provisional decision, my 
decision remains the same, in that Funding Circle should pay R an additional £150 
compensation.
My final decision
Funding Circle Ltd has already made an offer to pay R a further £150 compensation, on top 
of the £150 it has already paid, for the inconvenience caused and to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Funding Circle Ltd should pay R £150, bringing the total 
compensation for this complaint to £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman