DRN-4403335
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with his chargeback dispute in 
relation to the deposit he paid for a holiday.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr A booked a river cruise and paid a deposit of £350 with his Nationwide 
debit card. The merchant, which I will call A1, ceased trading in September 2022 and went 
into administration. Its assets were sold to another company, which I will call L. L took over 
responsibility for all of the holidays which had been booked with A1. L asked Mr A to pay it 
the full price, including the deposit, and told him to recover the deposit from either 
Nationwide (by way of chargeback) or from an insurance company which I will call E  
there is a dispute about which of them Mr A was supposed to ask for his refund, E or 
Nationwide.
In November 2022, Mr A asked Nationwide to raise a chargeback dispute about the deposit. 
Nationwide did this, but the chargeback was unsuccessful. Mr A complained to Nationwide 
about the outcome. In its final response letter, Nationwide told Mr A that the chargeback had 
been defended by L (on behalf of A1) on the basis that Mr A had received the holiday he had 
paid the deposit for. Nationwide told him to take up the matter with trading standards or with 
ATOL.
Mr A then brought this complaint to our service. Nationwide provided us with the merchants 
response to the chargeback, which consisted of a letter to yet another company, which I will 
call P, from Ps solicitors, explaining that no chargeback disputes should be raised against 
P because all P does is provide its customers with an electronic money account which they 
can then use to pay money to merchants such as A1. This meant that chargeback was 
therefore the wrong remedy, since such payments are not covered by the chargeback 
scheme. That letter went on to say that all claims for refunds of payments made to A1 should 
be made either to ATOL or to E, depending on whether the booking had included a flight or 
not. Refunds of bookings involving a flight should be claimed from ATOL, and refunds of 
bookings not involving a flight should be claimed from E.
One of our investigators considered this complaint, and she upheld it. She found that L had 
told Mr A to ask Nationwide for the refund of his deposit. She said Nationwide should not 
have told Mr A to approach ATOL, because Mr As booking did not include a flight and so 
ATOL could not have assisted him. She also said that L had claimed that Nationwide had 
raised the chargeback against the wrong merchant  a company which I will call A2, which 
has a very similar name to A1. For all of those reasons, the investigator thought that 
Nationwide should have pursued the chargeback to the arbitration stage, and that this would 
probably have been successful. She recommended that Nationwide pay Mr A £350, plus 
another £100 for his inconvenience.
Nationwide did not accept that opinion. It said it had raised the chargeback with the correct 
merchant, and that it would have been impossible for it to do otherwise under the 
chargeback scheme. It maintained that the merchant had defended the chargeback by 
saying that Mr A had to apply to E for his refund, not to Nationwide. It asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold it. I will explain why.
I am satisfied that the chargeback was raised against the correct merchant, for two reasons. 
Firstly, because I accept Nationwides statement that it would have been impossible for it to 
have raised a chargeback against anyone other than the party to whom Mr As debit card 
payment was made, because of how chargeback works. And secondly, because Ls 
confusion about who the payment was made to has only arisen because A1 had been 
trading under a different (but very similar) name, and coincidentally that other name is 
exactly the same as the name of an entirely different company, A2 (which is still trading). 
Indeed, Ls own website repeatedly refers to A1 by its trading name of A2. However, I have 
looked up both companies on Companies House and compared their company numbers with 
the one referred to on Ls website, and the one L calls A2 is really A1. There is no evidence 
to show that the chargeback was really raised with the real A2 rather than against A1. 
I am also satisfied that Mr A made his payment to A1, and not to P, and that the chargeback 
was raised against A1 and not against P. Ive read the letter which Ps solicitors wrote on Ps 
behalf, and which was submitted by L as part of the defence to the chargeback. The letter is 
not bespoke to Mr As case, but is a generic or template letter which states that it is intended 
to serve as a defence to a large number of actual or anticipated chargeback disputes (and 
also as a defence to claims brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, 
which doesnt apply to debit card payments).
That letter contains the following paragraph:1
The merchant account for the Visa and Mastercard transction(s) is held and 
operated in the name of [P] Limited which the customer's transaction(s) were 
made on furthermore the customers receipt and billing descriptor clearly 
shows "[P]" on the original transactions.
However, the screenshots supplied by Nationwide clearly show that Mr As debit card 
payment was made not to P but to A1, and the chargeback was raised against A1. Therefore 
Ps defence that it is only an electronic money wallet provider is not relevant to Mr As 
chargeback dispute. I have seen no evidence to suggest that Mr As payment was anything 
other than a straightforward debit card payment made directly to A1 without going through 
any intermediary. I am therefore satisfied that the chargeback dispute was properly raised by 
Nationwide  that is to say, that chargeback was indeed the correct remedy, and the 
chargeback dispute was raised with the correct party.
That is not to say that the letter is entirely irrelevant in this case, however, because L still 
relied on it in its defence to the chargeback claim. Indeed, that document seems to have 
been Ls entire defence.
The letter says that refunds should be claimed from E, if there was no flight included in the 
booking (and from ATOL if there was one). It provided a link to Es website.
1 I have redacted Ps name from the quote, but I have left the spelling and punctuation uncorrected.Mr As booking was not for a flight, but for a river cruise, so Nationwides advice to Mr A in its 
final response letter that he should approach ATOL was an error.
Es website clearly states:
If you paid by debit card contact your card provider and make a claim under 
the Debit Card Chargeback Scheme.
It then goes on to say:
If you are not able to make a refund claim through any of the above 
methods then you can submit a claim for consideration under [A2s] Financial 
Failure Insurance Policy. 2
E was the company responsible for handling claims under the Financial Failure Insurance 
Policy. So it appears from Es website that cardholders were expected to attempt a 
chargeback first, and only if that was unsuccessful were they to make a claim to E  not the 
other way around.
For both of the above reasons, I think that Nationwide was wrong to accept the defence to 
the chargeback dispute. The merchant was wrong to say that chargeback was never an 
available remedy, and was also entirely contradicted by the correct procedure for claiming 
refunds, which was to try chargeback first, and only then to bring an insurance claim with E. 
So I think that Nationwide should have pursued the chargeback to arbitration, and that this 
would most likely have succeeded, considering all the evidence which had been supplied.
I agree with the investigators proposed compensation.
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr 
A £350, plus another £100 for his inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
2 Here, A2 means A1, as I explained above.