DRN-2724612
The complaint
Miss M complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) didnt do enough 
checks before it lent to her.
What happened
Miss M took out a £500 loan with Lending Stream on 20 August 2016. It was due to be 
repaid with six monthly instalments, the highest of which was £216. The last instalment was 
due on 15 August 2017, but the loan was sold to a third party when Miss M failed to make 
the repayments.
Miss M says that when she applied for the loan, she was already struggling to maintain 
payments on priority bills and her credit rating was very poor. She said that if Lending 
Stream had carried out the necessary checks it would have found a history of missed 
payments, defaults and financial hardship and should never have provided the loan. Miss M 
adds that it resulted in the loan being sold to a third party, years of harassment and a court 
order which was finally settled by a family member. She says that the effect on her credit file 
has meant shes been turned down for mortgages and private rentals.
Lending Stream says it asked Miss M about her income and expenditure and checked her 
credit file. It says it compared the figures with statistical averages and adjusted them if 
required. Lending Stream says the checks showed Miss M had enough disposable income 
to afford the repayments.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available 
information to indicate Miss M was struggling to manage her money. 
Miss M responded to say, in summary, that she wasnt requesting a refund, just an 
acknowledgement that Lending Stream had lent irresponsibly and for it to remove the 
negative entries from her credit file.
She says she has provided evidence to show accumulating debts and missed payments in 
the lead up to the loan and has yet to see evidence of the checks that Lending Stream said it 
carried out. However, Miss M maintains that her credit score at the time of the loan was 
much lower than the figure Lending Stream claimed it to be and that the balance on her 
credit accounts was at least £1,956, rather than the £900 Lending Stream stated. She adds 
that she originally requested a £400 loan but was approved for a £500 loan which, she says, 
is further evidence of irresponsible lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
When Miss M applied for the loan with Lending Stream, I can see it asked her about her 
income and expenditure. Miss M said her monthly income was £1,700, with expenditure of 
£1,025. Lending Stream also carried out a summary credit check. Im satisfied, in the 
circumstances of the lending, that these checks were proportionate. I say that because:
This was Miss Ms first loan with Lending Stream;
The highest monthly repayment due was less than 13% of Miss Ms declared income;
Lending Streams credit check showed:
oMiss M had a good credit rating;
oShe had six active accounts with a balance of around £900;
oFour defaulted accounts, although the most recent was almost three years 
earlier;
Lending Stream calculated her disposable income to be around £650 per month, 
indicating the repayments were affordable.At this stage in the lending I consider Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information 
provided by Miss M as there was nothing to indicate her financial circumstances were 
significantly different.
I acknowledge Miss M says she had more than twice the debt that Lending Streams credit 
check showed, but I dont find it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to carry out 
the level of financial review that would have been required to show this additional borrowing.
Ive reviewed all the evidence that Miss M has sent and I think its likely that Lending 
Streams credit check did not show the short-term loan Miss M took out at the end of June, 
nor was it showing the outstanding short-term loan from 2012 for which I can see Miss M 
had recently offered to make monthly repayments. Its also possible that the new running 
account was showing a zero balance at the time of the credit check as it had been repaid on 
15 August 2016.
So, although Lending Streams credit check was likely to have included Miss Ms credit 
cards, both these accounts were up to date and within their credit limit. I acknowledge that 
Miss M had late payments showing for her bank account, but I dont consider those, or the 
earlier defaulted accounts, would have been enough for Lending Stream to have found it 
needed to carry out further checks.
I also accept Miss M appeared to have been in financial difficulties in 2012 and 2013 and I 
have reviewed the information she has sent about accounts she held at that time. But I dont 
find it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to have considered Miss Ms financial position 
had improved since then, given the most recent default was showing as 35 months earlier.
I dont doubt Miss M when she says she was already in financial difficulties at the time she 
applied for the loan but having reviewed the checks carried out by Lending Stream. and the 
results of those checks, I find it would be unreasonable to expect Lending Stream to have 
completed a more detailed assessment, especially considering it was Miss Ms first loan.
In summary, I find that Lending Streams checks were proportionate to the circumstances of 
the lending and that there was nothing in the available information to indicate that Lending 
Stream acted irresponsibly by approving the loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman