DRN-1778597
The complaint
Mr A is director of a limited company that I'll refer to as Company I. He's complained on 
Company I's behalf about Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd's handling of a 
claim on his fleet insurance policy.
For ease of reading I'll refer to Mr A throughout rather than Company I.
What happened
Mr A submitted a claim to Berkshire Hathaway for damage, after his car was hit while parked 
and unattended in February 2019. He took his car to a garage who estimated that it would 
cost around £5,000 to repair the damage. Berkshire Hathaway asked for an itemised 
breakdown of the repair costs and then arranged for an engineer to inspect Mr A's car. The 
engineer didn't think the wing or the headlamp had been damaged in the accident, so 
Berkshire Hathaway refused to pay to repair those. It said to settle his claim, Mr A could 
choose whether to have his car repaired at its approved repairer, at the manufacturer's 
garage or have a cash settlement to the value of the repairs. 
Mr A didn't agree with Berkshire Hathaway's offer as he thought the car should be written-off 
due to extent of the damage. He was also unhappy with how long it had taken Berkshire 
Hathaway to deal with the claim as he hadn't been able to use his car while the claim was 
ongoing.
Berkshire Hathaway said it was only made aware of the claim on 14 June 2019, as Mr A had 
approached an accident management company first rather than claiming on his policy. It 
also said Mr A's car could be repaired and so didn't need to be written-off. Mr A remained 
unhappy and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator explained that we could only look into what had happened since                  
1 April 2019, as Mr A, on behalf of Company I, wasn't eligible to complain to us about things 
that happened before then. But he didn't recommend that Mr A's complaint be upheld. He 
thought Berkshire Hathaway's offer to settle Mr A's claim was fair and reasonable and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. He accepted the engineer's report said some 
parts Mr A had claimed for weren't damaged. And he thought the amount Berkshire 
Hathaway offered was enough to cover the damage caused in the accident. He didn't think 
Berkshire Hathaway had caused any unreasonable delays and didn't think it was to blame 
for Mr A not being able to use his car.
Mr A didn't agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman's decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr A's policy gives Berkshire Hathaway the option to repair or 
replace damaged parts or to pay a cash settlement. As our investigator's explained, I can only consider what's happened since 1 April 2019, as 
Mr A, on behalf of Company I, wasn't eligible to complain to our service about things that 
happened before then. 
I can see from Berkshire Hathaway's claim notes that it was aware of the accident, but it 
didn't receive the repair estimate from Mr A until 14 June 2019. Once it had received the 
estimate, I think it was reasonable for Berkshire Hathaway to ask for a further breakdown as 
it needed to know the itemised cost of repairs. It then had concerns that some parts being 
claimed for weren't damaged. So, I think it was reasonable for it to appoint an engineer to 
look into the claim further. 
Berkshire Hathaway's engineer said there was "no visible damage" to the wing, headlamp, 
lens and fixings. So, he recommended Berkshire Hathaway remove these from the costings. 
I'm more persuaded by this report than the estimate from the garage that listed these parts 
as needed repairing. I say that because the garage's estimate was only a list of what it 
intended to repair and didn't explain why. So, I think it was reasonable for Berkshire 
Hathaway to rely on the engineer's report and remove the cost of repairs to the undamaged 
parts from the settlement amount.
Towards the end of July 2019 Berkshire Hathaway gave Mr A a number of options to settle 
his claim. It said it could arrange repairs with its approved repairer and this option would also 
provide him with a courtesy car. It said another option was for him to use the manufacturer's 
garage he'd chosen but it wouldn't provide courtesy car. As Mr A said he wanted his car 
written-off Berkshire Hathaway also said it would pay him cash in lieu of repairs so he could 
put the money towards a new car if he didn't want to have the repairs done. All of these 
options are in line with what the terms of the policy allow Berkshire Hathaway to do. And I 
think it was fair and reasonable of it to give Mr A the choice.
I appreciate Mr A thought his car should be written-off. But the engineer's view was that the 
car could be repaired. This is a decision it's entitled to make under the terms of the policy. I 
also don't find it unusual that Berkshire Hathaway decided not to write-off the car given that 
the cost of repairs was less than 50% of the car's value. So, I'm not going to require 
Berkshire Hathaway to do anything differently. 
I also don't think Berkshire Hathaway caused any unreasonable delays. I say that because it 
received Mr A's repair estimate on 14 June 2019 and made him an offer before the end of 
July 2019. Within that time it required a further breakdown of costs from Mr A's 
garage, needed to appoint an external engineer and that engineer needed to inspect the car 
and then produce a report. So, I don't think it unreasonably delayed the claim, as it needed 
to gather more information.
I can understand Mr A's frustration at his car being damaged and him being unable to use it, 
given that the accident wasn't his fault. But I'm satisfied Berkshire Hathaway has dealt with 
the claim fairly and reasonably and offered a settlement that's in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company I to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman