DRN-3810909
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not carry out enough checks to ensure a 
loan was affordable for him.
What happened
Mr T took out a £35,000 loan with Barclays on 15 May 2019. He needed to repay £1,539.10 
per month for 24 months. Mr T says that he was the victim of a scam and applied for a loan 
in order to send the money to a third party to invest. He says Barclays did no vetting or 
checks when he transferred the money, he never received anything back from the third party 
and could not afford the monthly repayments on the loan. Mr T says he was left with no 
option other than to re-mortgage and he wants the loan amount written off.
Barclays says it reviewed Mr Ts loan application and, based on its analysis of his income 
and expenditure, it was satisfied the repayments were affordable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said that Barclays 
carried out a credit check and had access to Mr Ts bank statements, so he considered it 
carried out proportionate checks for the loan application. However, he found that the loan 
repayments were almost 50% of Mr Ts average income and so it was unlikely hed be able 
to sustainably meet his repayments.
Our investigator said that Barclays should refund to Mr T any interest hed paid on the loan 
including statutory interest at 8%. He said it should also remove any associated negative 
information from Mr Ts credit file.
Barclays responded to accept the recommendations regarding the unaffordable lending. It 
added that it will also investigate Mr Ts allegation that he was the victim of a scam.
Mr T responded to say, in summary, he did not accept the proposed settlement as the 
lending was irresponsible and he wants the loan amount written off. He says that he had to 
re-mortgage which caused his monthly payments to almost double from £448 to £825. Mr T 
adds that Barclays had targeted him for a loan by telling him he was pre-approved on his 
banking app.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need to clarify that this decision will only consider the affordability of the loan. I 
understand Barclays is also investigating Mr Ts allegation that he transferred the loan 
money, and more, to a suspected scammer.
With regards to whether Barclays acted responsibly by approving the loan, I need to take 
into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Barclays lent to Mr T. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Barclays needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed 
assessments:
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3):
For the purpose of considering the customers income, it is not generally sufficient to rely 
solely on a statement of current income made by the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied by a credit reference agency or 
documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ts case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Barclays complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ts 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Barclays make a fair lending decision?
Did Barclays act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As Mr T banked with Barclays, it had access to information about his income and 
expenditure. It also says it carried out a credit check which showed no issues. Although I 
havent seen evidence of the credit check, Im satisfied that these checks were reasonable 
and proportionate.
Barclays found Mr Ts income averaged £3,136 in the six months preceding the loan, with 
the lowest month showing a figure of £2,832. On that basis Mr T needed to commit an 
average of 49.1% (and possibly as much as 54.3%) of his income each month to the loan 
repayments.
Given the above guidelines, and the fact that he needed to make the repayments for 24 
months, I find it likely that the repayments were unsustainable for him., Indeed, I note that 
Mr T repaid the loan by re-mortgaging and he says this meant his mortgage payments 
increased by almost £400 per month.
As I find Barclays did not make a fair lending decision, I consider it should refund any 
interest Mr T paid on the loan, plus 8% simple interest. I acknowledge that Mr T says that he 
would like the entire loan principal written off, but, given that he has had the benefit of that 
money, I cant conclude that would be a fair outcome.
I cant conclude that Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way, but I 
acknowledge it is considering what happened when Mr T requested the transfer of the 
£35,000 to the third party.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and 
charges on the loan;B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr T originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Mr T the total of A plus B.
D. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Barclays to take off tax from this interest. If it does, 
Barclays must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman