DRN-3739477
The complaint
Mrs A complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unfairly turned down her 
income protection claim when she was unable to work.
The complaint is brought on Mrs As behalf by a representative, but for ease I shall refer to 
all submissions as having been made by Mrs A herself. 
What happened
Mrs A is a beneficiary of her employers group income protection policy, underwritten by 
Legal and General. The policy is designed to provide a benefit in the event the member is 
incapacitated due to illness or injury, for the duration of a 28 week deferred period. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows.
Own occupation 
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him 
from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of 
the deferred period. 
In May 2021, Mrs As son was diagnosed with a serious illness and started undergoing 
treatment. Mrs A became absent from work around the same time and said she had 
symptoms of anxiety, depression and insomnia. 
Mrs A made a claim against her employers income protection policy. However Legal and 
General declined the claim. It said Mrs As symptoms didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity. And it thought the reasons for Mrs As absence were non-medical, and related to 
her personal stress and caring responsibilities. 
Mrs A complained to Legal and General and appealed its decision. She provided reports 
from her doctors.  Legal and General reviewed the new evidence, and in light of this said it 
would refer Mrs A for an independent medical examination (IME). 
The IME, who is a consultant psychiatrist, reviewed Mrs As condition in May 2022, and was 
also provided with the reports Mrs A had supplied. In summary he said Mrs As symptoms 
were more likely to be explained by a psychological formulation than a diagnosis of illness. 
He said mental illness and negative psychological well-being are distinctly different. And said 
there was evidence of Mrs A functioning outside of work, although limited to her supporting 
her son with various needs. Overall his report said Mrs A did not have a mental illness, and 
rather was suffering from stress associated with her childrens health and other worries. And 
he recommended medication and cognitive behavioural therapy to help with her symptoms. 
Following the IMEs report, Legal and General responded to the complaint and said it 
maintained its decision to decline the incapacity claim. 
Unhappy with Legal and Generals response, Mrs A brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they thought Legal and General 
hadnt done anything wrong.
Legal and General made no comment on the investigators view. However Mrs A disagreed 
and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Legal and General 
has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. 
Firstly, I should clarify that my assessment here is not based on whether Mrs A has been 
unwell, but rather Ive looked at whether I think the medical evidence supports that she met 
the definition of incapacity set out in the policy. 
For Mrs A to make a successful claim, she would need to demonstrate that she was unable 
to perform the material and substantial duties of her occupation, due to illness or injury, 
throughout the deferred period. 
Having reviewed the medical evidence, I dont think Legal and General acted unfairly in 
declining Mrs As claim. And I say this for the following reasons.
Mrs As GP had assessed her as being unfit for work, however that does not 
automatically mean her claim should be paid. A GP will use standard criteria for 
assessing fitness for work, and this is not the same as the policy definition of 
incapacity in this case. 
The report from the clinical psychologist stated Mrs A reported symptoms which 
would be consistent with those with a diagnosis of anxiety and depression, but he 
didnt diagnose these conditions and stated he is not a medical doctor or practitioner. 
In her claim form Mrs A related her reported symptoms of depression, anxiety and 
insomnia to her sons illness and her associated concern over the situation. And her 
GP had referenced her condition as Carer stress anxiety. 
According to the NHS definition, stress isnt considered an illness. Rather, its a 
reaction to a set of circumstances, thats usually situational, meaning once the cause 
of the stress has passed, so too should the state of stress. Although I accept the 
symptoms of stress can be debilitating and can often lead to more serious mental 
health problems, Ive not been sufficiently persuaded that is the case by the medical 
evidence presented. 
I think Legal and Generals request for Mrs A to be assessed by an IME was fair and 
reasonable and the time taken for this to be carried out was necessary. The IME is 
an independent party and a consultant psychiatrist, and had been provided with the previous medical reports in this case. Having reviewed the IME report together with 
the other medical evidence supplied, Im satisfied it was fair for Legal and General to 
place the most weight on the IME report. And I say this because as a consultant 
psychiatrist, the IME is more qualified in this field than the GP and clinical 
psychologist who had also provided a report on Mrs As condition. 
So it follows Im persuaded it was fair for Legal and General to rely on the IMEs 
opinion, which was that Mrs A was struggling with a negative psychological well-
being due to personal stressors, rather than a mental illness. 
Whilst I sympathise greatly with Mrs As circumstances, I cant fairly say Legal and General 
should pay her claim. Insurance policies generally will not cover all eventualities and the 
terms set out the types of claims which will be covered. And I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Legal and General to say Mrs As condition didnt meet the terms of incapacity in this 
case. So I dont think its decision to decline the claim was unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman