DRN-4379239
The complaint
Mr L complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and the role they 
played as his insurer regarding his car, provided by a separate company who Ill refer to as 
M, which he felt was faulty from the day it was received.
What happened
In 2019, Mr L was provided with a specifically adapted car suited to him by M. This car came 
with an attached insurance policy, underwritten by RSA. 
From the time Mr L received the car, to the end of 2021, Mr L made four separate claims on 
his insurance policy. And in the fourth claim, initially raised in November 2021, Mr L made 
RSA of his belief that the accident itself had been caused by a vehicle fault with the 
acceleration. 
RSA made Mr L aware this issue would need to be raised with M, as they were the provider 
of the car and so responsible for any defects. But they engaged with the car manufacturer 
where necessary, who completed an inspection where fault couldnt be detected. Mr L was 
unhappy about this, so he contacted our service.
Mr L stated hed complained to both M and RSA about the fault, without receiving a 
response. Our investigator explained this complaint reference focuses solely on RSA, and 
their actions. And RSA stated no complaint had been received and so, they issued a final 
response after receiving contact from us.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint, explaining any defect would be the responsibility of M, and 
not themselves. RSA explained that they had seen no evidence to suggest any repair work 
completed to Mr Ls car as part of an insurance claim had caused the fault in question and 
so, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr L remained unhappy with this 
response, so he asked our service to continue with our investigation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained as Mr L was 
stating the fault was present from when the car was received and so, was a car defect, this 
would be the responsibility of M, and not RSA, to investigate and rectify. And they explained 
after considering the claims Mr L made under his insurance policy, he was satisfied RSA 
handled these fairly and that there was no evidence to suggest the fault was caused by 
RSAs actions. So, they didnt think RSA needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree. He maintained his belief RSA shouldve done more as his insurer. And he 
also raised a new issue about the fact his insurance policy had since been transferred to 
another underwriter, which he felt was done purposefully. Our investigator explained this 
issue was a new one that hadnt been complained about. And that it would need to be raised 
with M, who took the decision on who underwrites the policies attached to their car. Mr L 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact the situation has had on Mr L. I recognise Mr Ls 
concerns about his car, and its potential defect, continued over several years which would 
no doubt have caused him both worry and upset. And I recognise how this wouldve been 
made worse due to a deterioration in his health over the same time. So, I can understand 
why Mr L feels hes been treated unfairly and wants to be compensated for this.
I can also understand why Mr L would feel as though RSA were jointly responsible, as their 
insurance policy was provided alongside the car given to him by M. But crucially, thats not 
the case.
But In this situation, the car was provided by M, under the scheme they ran. And M are an 
entirely separate business, regulated separately to RSA. So, M are ultimately responsible for 
the quality of the car that Mr L received, and any defects Mr L feels the car contained, not 
RSA.
RSA are the insurer and underwriter of the insurance policy Mr L held. So, RSAs 
responsibility is limited to the service they provided to Mr L when he made a claim on this 
policy, following the accidents he was involved in. So, this is what Ive considered when 
reaching my decision.
Ive seen that Mr L made four claims on his policy provided by RSA, between 2019 and the 
end of 2021. And in the first two of these claims, there were no repairs completed to Mr Ls 
car. Nor can I see Mr L made RSA aware of the defect he is unhappy with. As RSA 
completed no repair work to Mr Ls car, Im satisfied that RSA wouldnt have been 
responsible for any mechanical issue with Mr Ls car during that time and so, I dont think I 
can say RSA have done anything wrong.
I can see RSA did complete repair work to Mr Ls car in the third and fourth claims he raised. 
But in the third claim, from the system notes Ive seen, the repairs were completed, and Mr L 
received his car back, without any reference made to any defect, or unhappiness with the 
repair quality. So again, Im satisfied RSA acted fairly here.
Ive then thought about the fourth claim, made in November 2021. And I can see before, and 
after, the repairs were completed, Mr L did raise concerns about the potential defect to his 
car.
But I note Mr L stated that the defect with the acceleration was the reason for the accident. 
So, I think its reasonable for me to assume this issue was present before RSA completed 
their repairs. And because of this, I think its reasonable for me to assume that the 
suggested fault with the acceleration wasnt because of anything RSA did wrong when 
processing the claim and repairing Mr Ls car.
But even so, I would expect RSA to take Mr Ls concerns seriously, and to cooperate with 
any requests from the manufacturer who Mr L instructed to inspect his car for a defect. And 
from what I can see, RSA did so, and this resulted in the manufacturer being able to complete a report which ultimately stated that a defect couldnt be located. Had there been 
any issues with the quality of the repairs arranged by RSA, I wouldve expected them to 
have been highlighted here. And they werent.
So, from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied RSA handled Mr Ls claims made against his 
insurance policy fairly, as Id expect them to do. And because of this, I dont think they need 
to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand Mr L may be unhappy with this outcome. But as Ive explained above, Mr Ls 
ultimate issue relates to a potential defect on his car, present when he received the car in 
2019. This is an issue that is the responsibility of M and so, will need to be addressed 
separately to this decision. I note Mr L has also raised concerns about RSA no longer 
underwriting his insurance policy. Again, this is something Mr L will need to raise with M, 
who ultimately arrange the insurance policies attached to the cars they provided under the 
scheme they administer.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman