DRN-4364820
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about their mortgage with Landmark Mortgages Limited. They 
complain that the mortgage interest rate has varied unfairly, it has been too high, and no 
new interest rate products have been available, and that fees and charges have been 
applied unfairly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage in 2006, with Northern Rock. They borrowed just 
under £170,000 on an interest-only basis over a term of 25 years.
The mortgage was on a fixed interest rate of 5.09% until August 2009. After that, the interest 
rate reverted to Northern Rocks standard variable rate (SVR) for 4 years and 4 months, 
followed by Northern Rocks variable loyalty discount rate, which was the SVR with a 
discount of at least 0.25%, for the rest of the term. The discounted SVR would apply 
provided that payments were maintained.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs B complained to Landmark about the interest rate they had been 
paying. Landmark sent them its final response on 14 June 2020. It didnt uphold the 
complaint, and told Mr and Mrs B they could refer the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, but they had to do so within six months.
In February 2021, Mr and Mrs B referred this complaint to us. Our Investigator said they had 
done so too late, because they hadnt met the six-month deadline. Mr and Mrs B accepted 
that, and in 2022 they made a fresh complaint to Landmark, again about the mortgage 
interest rate, and also about fees and charges.
Landmark sent Mr and Mrs B its final response on 26 May 2022. It said it had answered their 
concerns about the interest rate in 2020 and wouldnt review that again, and it didnt uphold 
their complaint about other charges applied when they were struggling financially. In June 
2022, Mr and Mrs B asked us to look into the complaint.
Our Investigator found that time limits apply to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He said we can 
only consider the fees and charges applied to the mortgage in the six years before Mr and 
Mrs B complained in April 2022, and the interest rate since Landmark issued its first final 
response in June 2020.
In September 2023, I issued a decision confirming which parts of this complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can look into. I found that we can only consider Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint about the interest rate applied to their mortgage after 14 June 2020, which is when 
Landmark issued its first final response  although I said we would need to take account of 
earlier rate changes in order to do that.   
I also found that we could consider other fees and charges applied to the mortgage since 12 
April 2016, six years before Mr and Mrs B complained about those in 2022. 
The Investigator has already set out his conclusions about the parts of the complaint we can 
consider, and didnt recommend that they be upheld. Mr and Mrs B didnt accept that, and 
still feel they have been treated very unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage reverted to Northern Rocks SVR in August 2009, and later onto 
the discounted SVR, as set out in the mortgage terms. Nothing in the mortgage offer or the 
terms and conditions  or in mortgage regulation  says that Northern Rock, or its 
successors, had to offer Mr and Mrs B a new fixed rate once their old one finished.
As a result of Northern Rocks collapse and subsequent nationalisation, NRAM was a closed 
book lender unable to offer new interest rates to any of its customers. So, all its other 
customers were in the same position as Mr and Mrs B  and Mr and Mrs B werent treated 
any less fairly than any other customer. After the mortgage moved to Landmark, it continued 
on the discount rate. Landmark doesnt offer new rates to any customers either, and again 
theres no obligation on it to do so.
The mortgage conditions say the SVR can go up or down and set out the reasons for which 
it could be varied. Those reasons are set out in broad terms, and Ive looked carefully at the 
SVR and discount SVR applied to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  including historic changes, 
since the rate applied after 14 June 2020 isnt the result only of decisions Landmark made 
after that, but also the result of earlier decisions. In doing so, Ive considered the information 
Landmark and its predecessors have provided to us about the reasons the SVR varied and 
the mortgage conditions, alongside external reference rates such as Bank of England base 
rate, and wider economic conditions. Ive also kept in mind relevant law, including the Unfair 
Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999.
Having done so, I dont consider that the interest rate applied to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
has varied unfairly. Theres nothing in the mortgage offer or conditions to say that the SVR 
had to track the Bank of England base rate, or that entitled Mr and Mrs B to a new interest 
rate product after their initial fixed rate ended. Between the fixed interest rate ending in 2009, 
and May 2022, when Mr and Mrs B made this complaint, the interest rate on their mortgage 
varied between 4.14% and 4.89%; its highest point of 4.89% was in May 2022 following 
increases in the Bank of England base rate, and it has risen further since  as have other 
lenders SVRs. 
While Landmarks and its predecessors SVR (less, in this case, the discount) was higher 
than the introductory rates offered by other lenders, it was comparable to the SVRs and 
reversionary rates offered by other lenders. Landmark and its predecessors have also 
provided information about their reasons for varying the SVR in the way that they did, which 
include the impact of the financial crisis in 2007-2008, as well as their costs and obligations.  
Overall, I dont consider that Landmark or its predecessors treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly in 
the way they set and varied the interest rate on their mortgage. 
I have also kept in mind that while Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was subject to the SVR, there
were no early repayment charges, for example  so they could have re-mortgaged 
elsewhere without having to pay an early repayment charge. I understand why Mr and Mrs B 
have said their circumstances meant this wasnt possible, but it isnt a basis on which I can 
fairly conclude that Landmark or its predecessors should have applied a different interest 
rate. Mr and Mrs B have also complained about the other fees and charges that have been 
applied to their mortgage over the years. As I have already explained, I can only consider 
those applied after 12 April 2016. 
The only fees or charges other than interest that have been added to the mortgage since 
12 April 2016 are four fees for unpaid direct debits, each of £6.50, in April and July 2018 and 
January and September 2019. Im satisfied that Landmark was entitled to apply these fees  
direct debit payments were returned unpaid at those times and the level of the fees is in line 
with Landmarks tariff, to reflect the administrative costs involved. I dont consider the level of 
the fees excessive, or that they should fairly be refunded in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs B 
have managed to maintain the mortgage payments, so no other fees, such as for mortgage 
arrears, have been applied to the mortgage in the period I can look at in this complaint. 
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs B have told us about their situation and the difficulties 
theyre facing now that their mortgage interest rate has risen further, and I realise my 
decision will be very disappointing for them. Landmark has offered to discuss their 
circumstances with them, to see what forbearance options it might be able to offer to support 
them  and I encourage Mr and Mrs B to do that. But I dont find that Landmark or its 
predecessors have treated them unfairly, and so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman