DRN-2242398
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited supplied her with a car which wasnt 
of satisfactory quality and that it wont allow her to reject it.
What happened
In February 2019 Mrs S entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle for a used car to 
replace her old one, which she says she was finding expensive to run. She wanted to reduce 
her monthly payments. 
The dealership which was to supply the car told Mrs S that it needed a new gearbox, so it 
wasnt until 17 April that she was able to collect it. 
Mrs S says that she experienced problems with the car almost immediately. Engine warning 
lights would come on and the cars alarm would sound for no reason, even while she was 
driving it. She contacted the dealership, which tried unsuccessfully to find a replacement for 
her. The cars running costs were significantly higher than those of her previous car, even 
though the replacement had a much smaller engine. 
Mrs S contacted Oodle, which arranged an inspection of the car by an independent 
engineer. The engineer reported that the central locking and alarm were operating correctly. 
There were however other issues, including a poor repair of an intake pipe and the car 
lunging forward when setting off  consistent with a gearbox issue. The engineer considered 
those issues would have been present at delivery, might be related to unsuccessful repairs 
but could not be attributed to wear and tear. He recommended further investigation under 
workshop conditions. 
Oodle arranged for a further inspection. It didnt find any issues with the gearbox after 
cleaning and concluded that any problems with the car had been resolved. 
Mrs S remained unhappy, however. She said she wanted to reject the car. Oodle said Mrs S 
had no right to do so, since she hadnt sought to do so within 30 days of delivery and it had 
carried out an effective repair. Mrs S referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered it. He recommended that Oodle accept Mrs Ss rejection of the car, 
with effect from August 2019.
Oodle didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the background to this complaint, rather than setting out in detail each and 
every development. I can assure both parties, however, that Ive considered carefully all 
theyve said. 
As the investigator explained, the hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a 
term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. That means it would be of the quality a 
reasonable person would expect in all the circumstances. Those circumstances included the 
cash price attributed to the car, its age and mileage; they should also include the fact that 
the dealership had told Mrs S the gearbox had been replaced shortly before delivery. 
Mrs S reported a number of failings with the car, as a result of which an inspection was 
carried out. That inspection didnt find all the problems Mrs S had reported, but it concluded 
that there were possible problems with the gearbox and that  a large hole in the intake 
pipe from the air box to turbo had been poorly repaired with tape.  The report also noted 
that four diagnostic codes were present. The engineer thought the problems would have 
been present when Mrs S took delivery of the car. 
Oodle arranged for a further inspection, through the dealership. That inspection, Oodle says, 
found no issues. The dealership then carried out a full service, cleaned the gearbox and 
returned the car to Mrs S. There is therefore some inconsistency in the engineers findings 
about the gearbox and what the gearbox specialist reported. The first identified problems 
which he thought were likely to be related to the gearbox; the second didnt experience the 
same issues. 
I note however that Mrs S was told by the dealership  before she took delivery of the car  
that it had had a new gearbox fitted. The second engineer doesnt appear to have 
commented on that, even though they were instructed by the dealership.  
On balance, I think that the first engineer did experience the problems he described in his 
report. The fact that the second engineer didnt find the cause doesnt mean those problems 
didnt exist. I note as well that the second engineer wasnt asked to comment on the damage 
to the intake pipe and that no repairs were carried out. 
In my view, therefore, there is evidence that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time 
of delivery to Mrs S. In saying that, I note in particular the findings of the first (independent) 
report. 
Putting things right
I must therefore consider what Oodle should do to put things right  and, indeed, whether its 
already done enough. Mrs S said that she should be allowed to reject the car, and the 
investigator agreed with her.
Oodle says that its terms and conditions said that the dealership had one chance to rectify 
any faults before Mrs S could reject the car, reflecting its understanding of the statutory 
provisions set out in the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Oodle says that the effect of those 
provisions is that Mrs S could reject the car within 30 days of taking delivery of it; since she 
didnt seek to do that within that time, it had to be given an opportunity to carry out repairs. 
I note that Mrs S says she tried to obtain a different car from the dealership within a very 
short time. It was unable to provide anything suitable. I think its arguable therefore that she 
sought a replacement within 30 days of taking delivery. Since no replacement was available 
within a reasonable time, its arguable too that this entitled Mrs S to reject the car. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, I dont believe that the replacement of the gearbox before 
delivery was, for the purposes of the Act, an attempt to repair the car because of a failure to 
conform to the requirement that it be of satisfactory quality. Rather, it was an attempt to 
ensure that the car did conform to that requirement at deliver  albeit an unsuccessful one. Oodle says that it was entitled to attempt a repair, but that none was needed  other than a 
service and clean-through of the gearbox. I note however that Mrs S didnt request a repair 
to the car or agree to one. She simply complained about the problems she was having with 
it. The car was returned for further inspection of the gearbox, not for repairs. In the event, 
there were no repairs to the gearbox. More importantly, the other issues identified in the 
independent engineers report dont appear to have been addressed at all.  
In the circumstances, I believe that a fair and reasonable resolution of Mrs Ss complaint is 
to allow her to reject the car. It wasnt of satisfactory quality and Im not persuaded that 
Oodle has arranged a full repair of the car.          
My final decision
My final decision is that, to settle Mrs Ss complaint, Oodle Financial Services Limited 
should:
cancel the hire purchase agreement; 
arrange for the collection of the car at its own expense at a mutually convenient time 
(and when it is safe and legal to do so); 
refund any hire payments made after 22 August 2019, together with interest at the 
contractual rate from the date of payment to the date of the refund; and
remove any adverse information it may have placed on Mrs Ss credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman