DRN-1300501
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited declined his claim on his 
motor insurance policy following the theft of his car and avoided (treated it as if it never 
existed) his policy. He wants it to pay his claim up to the value hed insured his car for. Mr S 
is represented in this matter by Ms S. 
What happened
When Mr S insured his car with Watford Insurance, he stated its value as £35,288 rather 
than its actual value of £68,000 which led to lower premiums. But when his car was stolen, 
Watford Insurance declined the claim and avoided the policy as it said Mr S had 
misrepresented the value of the car. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr S 
had been asked a clear question about the cars value and hed deliberately answered this 
incorrectly. He thought that if Mr S had given the cars true value, then Watford Insurance 
wouldnt have offered cover. So he thought it was fair and reasonable for Watford Insurance 
to decline the claim, avoid the policy and retain the premiums. 
Ms S replied that when Mr S took out the policy the agent should have realised the true 
value of the car. She thought the broker was responsible for this, not the underwriter. She 
thought it was unfair for Watford Insurance to treat the matter as fraud. She said the 
incorrect valuation for the car was unintentional and a mistake. She thought it was for 
Watford Insurance to ensure that the car was one it could insure. She thought it hadnt 
incurred any extra risks in insuring the car for a reduced value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S feels very upset and frustrated by Watford Insurances decision. I 
can see that this has had a severe impact on him and his family on top of the trauma of the 
theft. Ms S thought the broker was responsible for this matter. But its the insurers decision 
to avoid a policy and decline a claim. So Ive considered this complaint against the insurer, 
Watford Insurance.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Watford Insurance thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he stated in his application via a comparison site that his car was 
worth £35,288 rather than £68,000. 
Ive looked at the question Mr S was asked when he completed the application and I agree 
he failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked How much is the car 
worth? This is asking for the cars value, not how much Mr S wants to insure it for. I think 
this was a clear question asked by Watford Insurance through the comparison site Mr S 
used. 
As the investigator has explained, a consumer cant request a reduced value as the insurer 
is responsible for the full value of the car. The higher the value, the higher the risk. And I 
think its for Watford Insurance to decide what risks it wants to take. 
Mr S completed the sale over the phone with a broker. He was asked if all the details hed 
provided were correct and he answered Yes. But this wasnt correct as hed provided the 
wrong cars value. I think it was Mr Ss responsibility to provide accurate information. I dont 
think it would be reasonable to expect Watford Insurance to check that hed given the correct 
value for the car. And I think this means Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he said the car was worth £35,288.
Watford Insurance has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that if Mr S had 
not made this misrepresentation and provided the correct value for his car it wouldnt have 
offered him cover. This means Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
I also think Mr Ss misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. This is 
because Mr S later told us that he knew hed put in the incorrect value. From what he said, I 
think he was aiming to keep his premiums low. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Watford Insurance was entitled to avoid Mr Ss policy in accordance 
with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Watford Insurance 
does not have to deal with his claim following the theft of his car and its entitled to retain his 
premiums. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation 
cases, I think allowing Watford Insurance to rely on it to avoid Mr Ss policy produces the fair 
and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman