DRN-3735603
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as A, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has 
unfairly failed to compensate the partners for consequential losses arising from the unfair 
actions of the banks Global Restructuring Group (GRG). 
This complaint has been referred to us by a representative on behalf of the partnership. For 
ease of reading, I will refer only to A in this complaint and will treat everything thats been 
said on As behalf as if the partners had said it themselves.
What happened
The partnership is a retail business, which in 2011 began to show signs of cashflow 
difficulties. The bank transferred the connection first to a Specialised Relationship Manager, 
then in January 2012 to GRG. 
In 2017, the bank refunded the partnership £10,150 of management fees, plus interest at 
8%, under its Automated Fee Refund scheme. 
In 2018, the partners complained to the banks voluntary GRG review scheme. NatWest 
upheld the complaint about the management fees (which had already been refunded) and 
offered an additional refund of £974 (plus interest) relating to a security review fee charged 
at a level that exceeded the banks guidelines. The bank didnt uphold other parts of the 
complaint.
The partners accepted the banks offer in settlement of the direct loss complaint and went on 
to submit a consequential loss (CL) claim. They claimed for the following consequential 
losses:
Foregone profits of £166,742,
Losses on the forced sale of a car at below value,
Losses due to failure to make contracted payments under a service agreement,
Refinancing costs,
Professional fees incurred in bringing the claim.
RBS didnt uphold the CL claim, although it offered to pay some of the partners professional 
fees. The partners appealed this outcome to the independent review stage of the banks 
process, which increased the offer for professional fees to £3,237 plus VAT, but didnt 
otherwise change the outcome. The partners asked our service to look at the claim again.  
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt recommend awarding any further 
compensation. He thought that A hadnt shown a link between the losses claimed and the 
upheld direct loss complaint about the management fees. The partners asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint the partners, but Ive reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator, for essentially the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Because the direct loss complaint has already been resolved between the parties, this 
decision starts from an agreed position that the bank should not have charged management 
fees of £10,150 or overcharged for a security review. As complaint is now about 
consequential losses. 
In order to decide whether the bank has acted fairly, I need to look at whether the banks 
error in charging the fees mentioned caused the consequential losses claimed. I also need 
to compare what actually happened with whats likely to have happened if the bank hadnt 
charged those fees. I accept that there is no certainty about this and I cant know for sure 
what would have happened around a decade ago. But that is not unusual in our services 
work. I need to decide, based on all available evidence, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
I note that, in claiming for lost profits of £166,742, the partners have also said the losses 
were caused by a mis-sold interest rate hedging product (IRHP). This product was the 
subject of an earlier complaints process, which concluded with successful direct loss and 
consequential loss claims. The partners accepted compensation in settlement of these 
earlier claims.  
The partners have argued that the cashflow burden would have of course been lower if 
management fees were not paid to GRG and that effective assistance from the bank would 
have prevented the reduction in gross profit margin. I accept that the excessive fees would 
have had some impact on cashflow, but Ive seen no evidence that shows a link between the 
fees and the foregone profits claimed. Given the relative magnitudes of fees and losses, I 
think its more likely than not that there is no link and that even without the fees, the 
partnership would have faced cashflow pressures. 
As our investigator pointed out, its evident that in 2011 and 2012, the partnership was under 
considerable cashflow difficulties, with regular items being returned unpaid. The 
management fees of £350 per month were relatively insignificant in this context, not least 
compared with the impact of the IRHP. 
The argument regarding the lack of effective assistance from the bank is in my view a new 
direct loss complaint and that part of the complaint, as Ive said, has already been settled. 
Aside from that, the partners representatives seem to have chiefly sought to show a link to 
the IRHP product, for which losses have already been claimed and accepted, so I will not be 
reconsidering them here. The claim for the alleged loss on a car sale and on the service agreement were also 
previously claimed (but not upheld) as part of the consequential losses resulting from the 
mis-sold IRHP. In relation to the car, I can see how the partners have arrived at the amount 
claimed (by assuming a discount of 20%), but I havent seen any evidence showing that the 
car was a forced sale or that it was sold at less than the market value. So I dont think the 
partners have done enough to prove this loss. In any case, I also think it unlikely that the 
losses from the management fees, which were charged monthly and therefore only had a 
gradual effect on cashflow spread over several years, would have necessitated this sale. 
The partners have claimed that the dispute regarding the service agreement (which they say 
was caused by cashflow pressures) resulted in costs of £17,042. I understand that this 
agreement was signed in March 2011 and the dispute settled in May 2013. By the time of 
settlement, only around half the management fees had been charged. I think its therefore 
more likely than not that at the time the dispute arose, the impact of the management fees 
on cashflow was relatively small. I dont consider the partners have shown that the losses 
incurred on the contract stemmed from the management fees. 
The partners also claimed for £9,530 of fees incurred as a result of taking out a replacement 
loan with a new lender in May 2012. They say this was taken out to refinance the 
partnerships existing loan. The bank has said that the new lenders loan was to a different 
partnership, making the claim ineligible as the loss wasnt incurred by A. I havent seen 
evidence showing which partnership took out the refinancing loan, nor that the £9,530 costs 
were incurred as a result of the management fees. 
This brings me to the professional fees incurred to bring this claim. The partners originally 
said they had incurred fees totalling £12,000 to bring their claim. They point out that the bank 
provided no assistance and argue that they required professional assistance from a 
specialist firm. The bank initially offered (subject to evidence of fees paid) £2,000 plus VAT, 
its agreed fee level for an initial consultation regarding a CL claim. 
Later, in their appeal regarding the CL claim, the partners revised their claim down to £7,500 
plus VAT. The independent third party considered that one eighth of this amount should be 
paid (in addition to the £2,000 plus VAT mentioned above), in view of the fact that only one 
of As eight original complaints was upheld. 
Although the partnerships complaint covers events that happened some time ago, the 
arguments are not particularly complex or detailed and are in my view understood by the 
partners. It was their choice to have legal representation and I dont think it would be fair to 
expect the bank to reimburse them for this in full. 
Ive thought about these costs carefully, and on balance, I dont intend to require the bank to 
pay anything further. I say this because I dont think legal representation, beyond an initial 
consultation, was necessary in order to make the partners complaint. I also note that a large 
proportion of this claim seems to be based on a claim already made in the IRHP review 
process. So Im not persuaded that a great deal of extra work was required, particularly as 
little evidence seems to have been provided to support the claims on this occasion. 
The partners should contact the bank direct if they now wish to accept the parts of its offer 
not already paid in relation to professional fees.
In summary, for me to uphold this complaint, the partners needed to show that, were it not 
for the management fees and the overcharged security review fee, the claimed for losses 
wouldnt have been incurred. My conclusion is that the partners havent shown this link. So 
Im not going to uphold this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman