The complaint
Mr V, a sole trader, complains about what happened when he switched his business banking 
from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
What happened
Mr V changed his business account using the account switching service. He said the 
account didnt transfer properly. It had an overdraft of £15,000, and Mr V said he was ready 
to pay that, but the payment kept bouncing. He thought RBS had closed the account 
prematurely, which had caused the problem. 
Mr V said he used that account to pay mortgages, and the poor transfer had left some direct 
debits not set up properly. He said he was still being charged interest and fees for an 
overdraft hed repeatedly tried to settle. And he could no longer afford to pay all of the 
overdraft, so he would sell some assets and set up a repayment plan in the meantime.
RBS said it had switched this account out to another bank in June 2019, but Mr Vs old RBS 
account couldnt be fully closed because he had an outstanding overdraft. It said he couldnt 
pay the debt just by BACS or Faster Payment. Those payments would revert to the new 
account. In late August, RBS wrote to Mr V and said this debt would have to be paid by 
CHAPS. In October, it said it would only take payment in cash, or over the phone by card.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that the payments 
werent returned by mistake. That was part of the switching process. Mr V was given the 
option of repaying the debt on 10 September or 14 October. Because hed been given those 
options, our investigator didnt agree that RBS had acted incorrectly. And he didnt think RBS 
was to blame if the money had been used elsewhere, and Mr V then needed to sell other 
assets. Mr V knew the debt was outstanding and repayable on demand. 
Mr V didnt agree. He said hed tried to clear the account by using a CHAPS payment, and 
that wasnt allowed. Hed been told the only way to settle the debt was by cash in one 
particular branch. Mr V also said that RBS had written to him to offer payment by instalments 
directly to it, but then wouldnt do that any more. He didnt want to make payments through a 
debt management agency, as he said he was remortgaging, and didnt want a fault on his 
credit record. 
Our investigator said that he wouldnt change his mind, as the bank had given Mr V other 
options to pay, but he no longer had the money. Mr V said he would like this case to be 
considered by an ombudsman. He said he was also looking for compensation for all the 
stress this had caused him. The case then came to me for a final decision.
DRN-1972658 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I dont think that its RBS fault that Mr V is unable to simply clear this debt now. But 
Im not clear that Mr V has received good customer service from RBS at all points 
during and after the switching process. Ill explain why I think that.
Mr V apparently complained in late June. RBS appears to have passed his complaint 
about repaying his overdraft directly over to Santander. This is what I would usually 
expect, as Santander is responsible overall for the transfer, but in this instance I think 
it may perhaps have assisted to tell Mr V how a payment could be made directly 
towards his debt in the meantime. Then RBS contacted him, and told him he could 
make a payment by CHAPS transfer. Mr V tells us hes tried that twice, and the money 
was returned. RBS latest position is that Mr V can pay by card. 
During this time, Mr Vs financial position has changed, and he had to use the money 
earmarked to pay RBS, towards other debts. Hes now said hes selling his house and 
car to clear his debts. But I note that Mr V has been aware for some time that this 
money was owed. If his financial position has changed, and that payment is now more 
difficult for him, then Im sorry to hear that. But I dont think thats RBSs fault. 
I do think that RBS has increased the stress to Mr V, by not setting out clearly early on 
how he could repay RBS. And I think that RBS should pay Mr V some compensation 
for that. I think that a payment of £100 to reflect the additional stress to Mr V caused 
by lapses in service would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
RBS replied to accept my decision. Mr V replied to disagree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr V said that £100 wasnt close to covering his time, loss of work, stress and phone costs in 
trying to repay this debt. He said that he read the information from RBS and Santander, and 
was informed everything would be taken care of, including the overdraft facility. That turned 
out not to be the case, and still no one had explained why the bank he was switching to 
couldnt settle his RBS overdraft on the transfer date. 
Mr V said he was failed at every turn, as RBS wouldnt let him pay unless he took the funds 
into a specific branch, in cash. But RBS was now blaming him, and charging him interest. He 
also said that he hadnt received a promised transfer bonus from the bank he switched to. 
He felt he was due more compensation, as he was still dealing with an overdraft problem he 
hadnt caused. 
This complaint is only looking at what RBS did in this case. The bank that Mr V switched to 
is primarily responsible, under the rules of the account switching service, for making sure the 
switch goes smoothly. I cant comment here on what the bank that Mr V switched to did, and 
I couldnt ask RBS to pay additional compensation if that bank did made mistakes. Mr V told us that he was still trying to sort this issue out, so he thought he should get much 
more compensation than I suggested. I proposed to tell RBS to pay Mr V £100, because I 
thought that at an early stage in his complaint, it shouldve done more to help him. But I dont 
think thats the primary reason why this issue isnt yet resolved. RBS has now told Mr V that 
he can pay with a card. But, as I set out in my provisional decision, Mr Vs financial position 
changed shortly after he switched banks. I think thats more likely to be why this issue isnt 
yet resolved for him.
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind on the appropriate level of compensation to 
ask RBS to pay in this case. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must pay Mr V £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman