DRN-3481661
The complaint
Mr R complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) hasnt paid a fair 
settlement for his claim following damage to his car.
 
What happened
Mr Rs car suffered collision damage when it slipped on ice and into a hedge in 
January 2021. Mr R is unhappy that the settlement paid by Admiral is less than what he feels 
is the true market value of his car. He feels the amount paid - £10,000 (less the policy 
excess and outstanding premiums) hasnt adequately taken into account the mileage or 
condition of his car.
Admiral has explained that its settlement of Mr Rs claim was based on a report completed 
by an independent engineer. This was because the two motor trade guides it typically uses 
to value cars werent able to provide a valuation for Mr Rs car, owing to its age.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint. He didnt think Admiral had paid a 
reasonable settlement for Mr Rs car. He said the engineers valuation appeared to be based 
on adverts for cars with significantly higher mileage than Mr Rs. He also checked the value 
of Mr Rs car on a third industry motor trade guide, which was able to return a valuation, and 
checked adverts from a classic car sales company. Based on this, our investigator 
concluded that a fair valuation for Mr Rs car would be £14,107.
Admiral didnt accept our investigator's opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy document explains how Admiral can settle a claim:
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either pay:
to repair your vehicle
a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle.
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle.
In this case Admiral elected to pay a cash settlement for the market value of Mr Rs car.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market' refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Our services typical approach when considering complaints about fair market value takes 
into account what three of the market leading motor trade guides say the market value is. 
These guides are Glasss, CAP and Cazoo. These guides are used across the motor 
industry when valuing second-hand cars. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, 
largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. 
The guides also take into account regional variations. Were confident these guides give a 
good reflection of the true market value of a car.
 
In this case Admiral says it attempted to use Glasss and CAP to value Mr Rs car, but due to 
its age they were unable to obtain a valuation. This is why it instructed an independent 
engineer to provide a valuation instead.
Our investigator ran his own valuation using the Cazoo trade guide, which returned a 
valuation of £14,107. But Admiral has raised several issues with this valuation, including that 
the condition of the car was set to good, when the engineer stated the condition was only 
average. Admiral also argues that the engineer actually inspected the specific car, and 
reviewed cars for sale at the time of the incident. So, it says the engineers findings are more 
reliable than the Cazoo historic valuation or the sales adverts our investigator obtained, 
which were more recent than the time of the incident.
Ive thought carefully about everything Admiral has said here. I accept that its engineer 
physically inspected Mr Rs car. But having read the report, it seems to me that the primary 
evidence the engineer relied on when reaching his valuation was the sales adverts from the 
time, albeit overlayed with a consideration of the condition of the car, which he said was 
average. I say this because the report included screen shots of online sales adverts from the 
time and stated:
I place the pre-accident value of this particular vehicle at £10,000 based on research 
from the internet bearing in mind the condition described herein.
 
I fully accept Admirals argument that the more recent sales adverts obtained by our 
investigator are less relevant than the adverts obtained by the engineer closer to the date of 
the incident. But I also agree with our investigator that the sales adverts relied on by the 
engineer are for cars with significantly higher mileage than Mr Rs which would likely have a 
significant impact on the valuation. I also note that both sets of sales adverts (the engineers 
and our investigators) appear to show a broad range of prices.
In any case, I should point out that our service typically finds the motor trade guides to be 
more persuasive than sales adverts, because adverts are often the starting point of a 
negotiation and are what the seller would like to achieve.
Ive also considered Admirals concern about the condition of the car stated when our 
investigator produced the Cazoo valuation. But having run the valuation myself, using both 
good and poor for the condition, I can confirm that this has no impact on the valuation 
figure returned.
In this particular case, Ive given due consideration to all of the various evidence and 
arguments provided. And having done so, I dont find the valuation provided by the engineer 
to be more persuasive than the trade guide. I say this for the reasons explained above, 
namely because the valuation appears to have been based largely on sales adverts form the 
time, which I find less persuasive than the motor trade guides. Particularly as the mileage on 
these adverts was significantly higher than that of Mr Rs car.Based on everything Ive seen, I think the Cazoo trade guide valuation represents a fair and 
reasonable valuation for the market value of Mr Rs car. So, it follows that Ill be asking 
Admiral to increase the value placed on Mr Rs car.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I uphold Mr R's complaint.
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must:
Pay Mr R the full valuation of £14,107, less any excess and charges applicable and 
any amount already paid.
To the amount still due to Mr R, add 8% simple interest* from the date of its initial 
settlement payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
*If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman