DRN-4358848
The complaint
Company V (V) complains Epayments Systems Ltd (Epayments) blocked their account 
and withheld the funds held in it.
What happened
On 11 February 2020 the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) placed 
limitations on Epayments. As a result Epayments were not able to process any transactions 
until the limitations were lifted. So, because of this V couldnt access their funds.
Unhappy with its actions V complained. Epayments upheld Vs complaint but explained that 
due to the FCAs actions it was withholding their funds and that it would continue to 
safeguard them.
V referred their complaint to this service.
The original FCA restrictions were later lifted on 23 February 2022 and Epayments began 
the process of reviewing its customers accounts and refunding them. In September 2022, 
Epayments announced it was closing its business and started reviewing its customers 
accounts in line with its legal and regulatory obligations before processing any payments.
V say they have received the funds in the account. One of our Investigators looked into Vs 
complaint. In summary they found: 
- Epayments is responsible for V not having access to their funds. Thats because its 
accounts were restricted due to weaknesses in its financial crime controls that were 
identified by the FCA
- As V were deprived of their funds, Epayments should compensate them by paying 
8% simple interest on them from when they were first blocked up until settlement
- Epayments should pay V G £150 compensation for the inconvenience theyve 
suffered
- Epayments, and its partners, may have charged currency conversion fees and 
commissions when refunding any balances. Its not fair for V to pay any fees or 
charges for accessing their funds  so Epayments should refund such fees and 
charges if imposed against V
V agreed with what our Investigator recommended. Epayments didnt agree it should pay V 
8% simple interest on the funds. It added that the majority of Vs funds were released on 
22 August 2022, but that 19.42 Euros still remained in the account. And in order to comply 
with its Know Your Customer (KYC) obligations it asked V to complete a form in 
March 2023 and return it back, but this still hasnt been received. 
Epayments say without fulfilling its KYC obligations there can be no claim for interest. It also 
argues there is no way of knowing how V would have used the funds, and so interest 
shouldnt be added to them. And this service should refrain from making any interest award 
which interferes with Epayments ability to wind down in an orderly manner. 
Epayments then made alternative offers to V which ranged from £750 compensation to 1% 
of the balance. As V refused these offers, their complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
As a regulated business, Epayments has certain obligations which it must comply with. 
Epayments is subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments 
for reasons widely publicised and also detailed on its company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended its operations. This significantly impacted V, given they had no 
access to their funds from February 2020 up until they were released to in August 2022.
Whilst the FCA requested Epayments to suspend its activities there was nothing it could 
have done in relation to returning Vs funds. But when it could, the funds were returned to V, 
Epayments say it shouldnt be held liable for any detriment to V whilst the FCAs limitations 
were imposed.
After carefully considering this, Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint to find Epayments didnt do anything wrong. I say that because Epayments 
had to suspend its operations due to failures on its part. So I think Epayments should put 
things right by addressing the fact V was deprived of their funds through no fault of their 
own.
V has received most of its funds, but a nominal amount remains in the account. Epayments 
say V hasnt returned a form related to the KYC checks it needs to carry out  and it wont 
release the remining funds until its satisfactorily completed these checks in line with its 
obligations. 
As a regulated business, Epayments must comply with extensive legal and regulatory 
obligations. These generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  from 
application to eventually the end of the relationship. This includes Know Your Customer 
(KYC) checks and/or Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
So any refund of funds should be subject to these checks. Its worth noting these checks 
include not just the verification of a customers identity, but also establishing the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship and origin of funds.
I agree V should complete any KYC checks its required to before 19.42 Euros can be 
returned to it, and before any interest is paid by Epayments against this amount. But 
Epayments wouldnt have released most of the funds in August 2022 without discharging its 
KYC or CDD obligations. So Im satisfied it needs to pay 8% simple interest on the funds it 
has already released from restriction up until settlement.  
I note Epayments dont agree with 8% simple interest being added because there isnt any 
way of knowing how V would have used their funds should they have had access to them. 
Awarding 8% simple interest when a consumer has wrongly been deprived of their funds is 
in line with the approach at this service. I havent seen compelling enough reasons as to why 
V shouldnt be awarded compensation in this way, so Im satisfied this is fair redress.So, in summary, Epayments should pay 8% simple interest on the funds it has released up 
until settlement on 22 August 2022. It should also pay 8% simple interest on the 19.42 
Euros from when the account was restricted up until settlement after its successfully 
completed it KYC checks. 
Im aware Epayments is going through a winding down process. To be clear, its not my 
intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of its business  thats not the role of our 
service. My role here is ultimately to decide what a fair way to resolve individual complaints 
between businesses and their customers, based on the individual facts of the complaint.
Im also satisfied £150 compensation is fair award for the inconvenience this matter has 
likely caused V. In reaching this award, Ive considered V has been inconvenienced when 
chasing Epayments for answers, and how having such a substantive sum withheld in this 
way would cause added inconvenience. 
I dont think its fair or reasonable for Epayments, or its banking partners, to charge V any 
conversion or commission fees if these have been applied  or will be. So if any such 
charges have been made, or are intended, they should be refunded to V.
Putting things right
To put things right, Epayments must: 
- Pay 8% simple interest on the funds it released to V on 22 August 2022 from when it 
first restricted their access up until settlement*
- Pay 8% simple interest on 19.42 Euros from when it first restricted Vs access up 
until settlement* subject to any KYC checks being satisfactorily completed 
- Not apply any fees or charges for releasing any funds to V  as detailed above. If it or 
its banking partner do apply such charges, they should be refunded
- Pay V £150 compensation for the inconvenience it has caused
*If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell V how much its taken off. It should also give V a tax deduction certificate if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Epayments Systems Ltd must now put things 
right as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman