DRN-2619005
The complaint
Mrs U complains that Scottish Widows Limited delayed sending her a forfeiture payment for 
her endowment policy.
What happened
In 1996, Mrs U took out a savings endowment policy with Scottish Widows. The policy had a 
term of 20 years and was due to mature in April 2016.
The policy was forfeited in late 2001 because Mrs U hadnt kept up to date with her 
premiums. Scottish Widows says it wrote to Mrs U advising her of the forfeiture value and 
enclosed a form for her to claim payment. 
In December 2019, Mrs U complained that Scottish Widows had failed to forward monies 
owed to her. Scottish Widows paid Mrs U the forfeiture value of £819 in January 2020.  In 
response to her complaint, it said it didnt believe it had caused a delay in the payment or 
held Mrs Us proceeds unnecessarily. It said it had been trying to contact Mrs U since 2001 
to arrange the payment but it hadnt received any instructions from Mrs U until December 
2019.
Mrs U asked Scottish Widows to review its decision. She also raised concerns that Scottish 
Widows hadnt paid her money owed to her from its demutualisation in 2000. Scottish 
Widows said it didnt feel it had held on to Mrs Us forfeiture funds without due cause. It also 
said it had sent her a cheque for £688.34 for the demutualisation payment in August 2000.
Mrs U remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Following this, 
Scottish Widows said it had received a letter from a family member of Mrs U in February 
2019, which was written on behalf of the family and said they believed Scottish Widows had 
monies that were due to them. Scottish Widows acknowledged that it could have traced   
Mrs Us policy from the details that were on the letter, but nothing was done. It offered to pay 
Mrs U 8% per annum simple interest on the forfeiture amount for the period February 2019 
to the date it had made the payment to her. It also offered to pay her an additional £150 in 
recognition of the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs U didnt think Scottish Widows offer was enough to resolve her complaint. She thought 
Scottish Widows should pay the 8% simple interest from the date of forfeiture in 2001 to the 
date of settlement in 2020. She thought it would also be fair for Scottish Widows to pay her 
£250 for trouble and upset.
Our investigator considered Mrs Us points but thought Scottish Widows offer was fair. She 
was satisfied that Scottish Widows had done enough to let Mrs U know about the forfeiture 
payment at the time. She also thought Scottish Widows was likely to have sent Mrs U the 
demutualisation cheque in 2000 and she was likely to have cashed it.
Mrs U accepted what our investigator had said about the demutualisation payment. But she 
didnt agree with her findings on the forfeiture payment. So, her complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Mrs U has accepted our investigators view regarding the demutualisation aspect of her 
complaint. So, I wont comment any further on this, other than to say I believe the conclusion 
the investigator reached was fair.
Mrs U believes Scottish Widows should have paid her the amount due when her policy was 
forfeited in late 2001. She says she didnt receive any of the letters advising her that £819 
was due to her prior to December 2019 and that Scottish Widows told her the letters it sent 
to her were returned but didnt give a reason for this. Shes also questioned why Scottish 
Widows didnt pay the forfeiture value directly into her bank account.
Scottish Widows has provided copies of letters it sent to Mrs U. In April 2001 it informed her 
that the policy would be forfeited if Mrs U didnt bring her payments up to date by October 
2001. A letter dated December 2001 told her the policy had been forfeited and included a 
form for Mrs U to complete and return to claim the forfeiture value of £819. It sent her 
another form to claim the forfeiture value in December 2003. Mrs U says she didnt receive 
these letters. But Im satisfied they were sent to the correct address. 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mrs U again in September 2016 saying that it had completed a 
review and had identified she hadnt claimed proceeds of a matured policy which was in her 
name. The letter said Scottish Widows held £819 that it would like to pay to Mrs U. I can see 
that theres no house number in the address on the letter. So, I dont think Mrs U is likely to 
have received it. 
While I dont think Mrs U is likely to have received the September 2016 letter, Im satisfied 
that Scottish Widows made reasonable efforts to let her know the money was due to her. I 
say this because the letters dated April 2001, December 2001 and December 2003 appear 
to have been sent to the correct address. 
Ive also considered Mrs Us comment that Scottish Widows should have paid the money 
directly into her bank account. But Scottish Widows says it required her to return the 
paperwork before it released the money. And its not this services role to comment on a 
businesss processes. So, this point doesnt make a difference to the conclusion Ive 
reached. 
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mrs U when Scottish Widows didnt take the appropriate 
action in February 2019. But I think its offer to pay 8% per annum simple interest from 
February 2019 to the date the forfeiture payment was made is fair compensation for the 
delay. I also think the £150 its offered to compensate Mrs U for the trouble and upset shes 
experienced is reasonable. 
Putting things right
Scottish Widows should:Pay Mrs U 8% per annum simple interest on the forfeiture amount (of £819) from the 
date it received the letter requesting it pay monies owed to her in February 2019 until 
the date it made the forfeiture payment to her.*
Pay Mrs U £150 for trouble and upset.
*If Scottish Widows considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the interest it 
should let Mrs U know how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs U a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customers if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Widows Limited to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman