DRN-4199221
The complaint
Mr M, a sole trader, is unhappy with the actions of National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) surrounding their pursuit of him for an outstanding Bounce Back Loan (BBL). 
What happened
Mr M received a £10,000 BBL from NatWest in January 2021, and he became liable to make 
monthly payments towards the loan from February 2022 onwards. But Mr M didnt make any 
payments towards the BBL from that time, which meant that the loan fell into arrears. 
Mr M explained to NatWest that his sole trader business was no longer operating and that 
because of this he didnt feel he was obliged to repay the BBL. But NatWest didnt agree, 
and because Mr M continued to not make any payments towards the loan, they defaulted the 
BBL and passed Mr Ms debt to a debt recovery agency (DRA). Mr M wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
NatWest responded to Mr M and said they didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong by 
administering the BBL as they had, including that they continued to consider Mr M to be 
personally liable to repay the balance outstanding. Mr M wasnt satisfied with NatWests 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel NatWest had acted 
unfairly in how it had managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Mr M states that he applied for the BBL on the basis of government guidelines which said 
that BBL borrowers faced no penalty or consequence should they fail to repay the loan. And 
Mr M has explained that this stipulation was written into the BBL contact he signed.
However, the guidelines that Mr M refers to here apply to limited companies  which can 
benefit from a limitation of liability regarding corporate borrowing. But Mr M didnt receive the 
BBL on a limited company basis. He received the BBL on a sole trader basis. Because of 
this, the limitations of liability to which Mr M refers here dont apply. And it must be noted that 
an individual who receives a loan on a sole trader basis remains personally liable for that 
loan, even if the sole trader business for which the loan was taken ceases to trade.
It also isnt the case that the limitation of liability to which Mr M refers is written into his BBL 
contact. Ive read the BBL agreement which Mr M signed and accepted in January 2021, and 
I note that the first section on the first page of that BBL agreement includes the following:
The customer is responsible for the repayment of this loan The Customer remains 
responsible for repaying the whole of this loan at all times (including in the event of a 
default) and if the Customer fails to do so this may negatively affect the Customers 
credit score or rating with credit rating agencies.
It therefore seems that Mr Ms belief that he shouldnt be considered liable for his 
outstanding BBL balance is based on a misunderstanding by Mr M regarding liability 
restrictions which dont apply to him. And in accordance with the above, Im satisfied that 
because Mr M received the BBL on a sole trader basis, it is fair for NatWest to continue to 
consider him liable to repay the BBL balance, even in consideration that Mr Ms sole trader 
business no longer trades. 
Mr M has also said that he believes NatWest have already recovered the BBL balance via 
the government guarantee and so should no longer pursue him for that balance. But the 
government guarantee requires lenders to attempt to recover a BBL balance by all 
reasonable means. And its only when a lender can confirm to the government that they 
have tried to recover the balance from the borrower by all reasonable means that the lender 
can then seek to reclaim the money that theyve lost from the government. 
Additionally, NatWest arent expected or obliged to provide information or evidence to Mr M 
about any recovery they may or may not have made regarding the government guarantee. 
Although given that the BBL borrower remains liable for the debt at all times, NatWest would 
be expected to reimburse any money recovered from the borrower to the UK Government if 
such a need arose. 
Mr M is also unhappy that NatWest have passed his BBL debt to a DRA. But the transferal 
of debt to DCAs is a common practice and one which is addressed and permitted by the 
terms of the BBL agreement  specifically, section 12  which Mr M agreed and consented 
to when he took the BBL. And NatWest didnt require any further authorisation from Mr M 
beyond this to transfer his debt to a DRA as they did.
Finally, Mr M feels that his repaying the BBL should be contingent on the position of his sole 
trader business. But, as alluded to above, there is no legal distinction between a sole trader 
and the person who is the sole trader. And this means that when a person takes a loan on a 
sole trader basis, and then the sole trader business ceases to trade, that person who was 
the sole trader remains personally liable for that loan.
All of which isnt to say that Mr M can reasonably afford to repay his BBL here, and I accept 
that Mr Ms personal financial position may be such that repayment of the BBL isnt 
reasonably affordable for him at this time. But I am satisfied that its fair for NatWest to 
consider Mr M to be personally liable to repay the BBL, regardless of the state of his sole 
trader business. And Im also satisfied that its fair for NatWest to pursue Mr M for the 
outstanding BBL balance in the manner they see fit, in order to satisfy their own 
requirements and obligations, including in regard to the government guarantee.
Ultimately, Mr M received £10,000 from NatWest here, which he hasnt paid back. And its 
almost always going to be the position of this service that its fair that a person who has 
received loan funds can be pursued for that money in line with the terms of the loan. And 
given all that Ive explained above, I see no reason why that shouldnt be the fundamental 
expectation here.I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take any alternative action. I 
hope Mr M will understand, given all Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman