DRN-2197538
The complaint
Mr W complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited hasnt accepted an offer of settlement hes 
made regarding the repayment of a debt. He also complains about the entry its recorded on 
his credit file and says it misleading.
 
What happened
Mr W tells us that hed been making payments relating to a credit card debt through a 
payment arrangement with a business Ill refer to as N. H says the debt was transferred 
(assigned) to Hoist although he says he didnt initially receive notice of this. But he later saw 
that Hoist had recorded with a credit reference agency (CRA) that the account was pre 
default. And not as the payment arrangement which hed entered. He feels this might lead 
potential future lenders to assume the account was on the brink of default. He also says he 
made a reduced offer of £1,500 to settle the debt in full. And he doesnt feel that Hoist was 
fair in refusing this.
Hoist told us that the debt was assigned to it and a notice of assignment was sent to Mr W in 
September 2018. It said that in March 2020 Mr W had made an offer of £1,500 in full and 
final settlement of the debt which at the time was around £2,800. It said that for business 
reasons it had declined to accept this offer. And it didnt accept that it had done anything 
wrong in its handling of the case. Hoist further stated that it was reporting the status on the 
account to CRAs as 0. It said this showed that the account was not in arrears nor had it 
defaulted.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
there was no requirement for Hoist to accept a reduced amount in settlement of a debt. She 
accepted that the title of the debt recorded with the CRA was Hoist Portfolio Holding Pre- 
Default. But she confirmed the debt was reported as status 0 which meant no arrears. And 
she said shed not seen anything to show that the title had affected any lending application 
which Mr W mightve made.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr W has experienced financial difficulties. And I understand that this can be 
an upsetting and stressful situation. I recognise that hes taken responsible action in entering 
a payment arrangement to enable the debt to be repaid.
Mr Ws complaint is in relation to three separate issues and Ill deal with each item 
separately as I hope this might make for better clarity.
He says he wasnt made aware that his account had been transferred from the previous 
owners N, to Hoist; that his offer of settlement was refused; and that the reporting of the 
account as pre-default - as opposed to being in a payment arrangement - is likely to give a 
false impression to prospective lenders. 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive seen a copy of the notice of assignment which was sent in September 2018. This 
appears to be correctly addressed. Although Mr W may not have received the letter, I cant 
hold Hoist responsible for any failure of a third-party delivery service if a correctly addressed 
notice isnt received. As it doesnt appear to have resulted in any financial loss and Mr W is 
now aware of the changed arrangements, I shant ask Hoist to do anything further.
I appreciate that Mr W is anxious to be free of this debt as soon as possible. But a business 
which owns a debt isnt required to accept a lesser sum than the amount owed. I can see 
that Hoist has offered to reduce the monthly payments if Mr W cant afford these. And thats 
what Id expect it to be prepared to do if his finances showed he was no longer able to afford 
the amount previously agreed. I mention this only for completeness and accept that in this 
complaint Mr W isnt suggesting the payments are unaffordable.
In terms of the manner in which the debt has been reported Ive seen the title of the entry 
about which Mr W complains. And I can understand why he might think it would give 
prospective lenders the impression he was about to default.
Businesses that report to CRAs are required to ensure that the information reported is fair, 
accurate and up to date. But I think its important to look at the overall context in which the 
entry was made. And the screen shot of a page from his credit file, which Mr W has supplied, 
simply lists the suppliers and titles of accounts in his name which are currently open.
The recording of the current status of the account is contained on a different page within a 
separate entry. Hoist has provided a copy of this entry which shows the payment status 
between April 2019 and August 2020 as 0. Account status is recorded as OK. These 
entries indicate no arrears of payments. And the balance of account is also displayed which 
shows the debt is gradually reducing. So that in April 2019 the debt total was £3,434. But by 
August 2020 this had reduced to £2,692. 
Its not in dispute that Mr W entered a payment arrangement. Such an arrangement is 
usually made when a borrower cant afford to make the full amount of contractual payments 
which are required under a loan agreement. Thats what happened here.
Ive seen a letter from the original owners of the loan, N, which confirms that it took the 
commercial decision to sell the loan to Hoist. And that at the time it did so the loan was in 
arrears but had not reached the level at which it (N) wouldve defaulted the account. Hoist 
has confirmed that when it acquired the debt, it reset the recorded status to 0.
One of the purposes of a payment arrangement is to try and assist the borrower to avoid a 
default. And whilst the payment arrangement itself is recorded on Mr Ws credit file its not the same as a default. Prospective lenders would know that it indicated that less than the 
original contractual payments were being made. But they would also see from the status 
figure that the payment arrangement itself was being maintained. 
Whilst the headline title may appear rather stark, it doesnt affect Mr Ws credit rating.
The content of the entry itself, is complete and represents a fair, accurate and up to date 
recording of the status of the account. And also the account balance.
Our investigator explained that its not the role of this service to direct a business to alter its 
business policies or procedures. So Im unable to require Hoist to change the title description 
it applies to accounts it reports to CRAs.
In summary, I dont find that Hoist has acted unfairly or done anything wrong in these 
circumstances. And whilst I recognise that Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, Im not 
upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman