DRN-3161674
The complaint
Mr T complains AWP P&C SA unfairly cancelled his motor warranty and refused his claim.  
  
What happened
In August 2021 Mr T took out an AWP motor warranty. Soon after he made a claim. There 
was a problem with the cars gearbox. AWP declined the claim and cancelled the policy. It 
refunded him the premium. It said the car hadnt met the servicing requirements of the 
policy. It said he wasnt a private owner, instead he was a member of the motor trade, so the 
policy wasnt suitable for him. It also felt the damage claimed for pre-existed the policy start 
date. 
Mr T made a complaint. He said the damage wasnt pre-existing, hes a private owner and 
the car had been serviced in line with the policy requirements. 
Our investigator felt AWP had unfairly cancelled Mr Ts policy. She also said its decision to 
refuse his claim was unreasonable. To put things right she recommended it pay the claim 
minus the cost of the policy. Mr T felt he should be paid some compensation. In response 
the investigator recommended AWP pay him £100. AWP didnt accept, so the complaint was 
passed to me.
In November 2021 I explained my thoughts on the complaint to AWP and Mr T. In summary I 
said I intended to require AWP to settle the complaint by paying him £5,600. My reasons are 
set out below.
The policy terms describe a private owner as an individual not engaged in the business of 
purchasing, selling or servicing motor vehicles. AWP had said Mr T wasnt a private owner 
because he had changed the oil in the car a few times. I said that was an unreasonable 
position. There was nothing to show Mr T was engaged in any motor related business. 
I said I hadnt seen enough to persuade me the gearbox problem pre-existed the policy start 
date. AWP had relied on records of previous work. That was provided by a garage. I said 
Mr T had previously explained the garage had made a mistake  the work on the relevant 
date was said to be to do with a recall. I said this had been explained by Mr T, the garage 
and our investigator but AWP hadnt engaged with the point. I also said I wasnt persuaded 
by AWPs argument that low mileage showed the problem was pre-existing. 
I noted that the policy terms have service and roadworthiness conditions. I said if AWP 
wanted to rely on these to refuse the claim it would need to set out clearly how these had 
been breached.
I explained AWP so far hadnt explained exactly how the manufacturers servicing 
recommendations werent met. Neither had it set out why the vehicle wasnt roadworthy. I 
said I needed to see more to be persuaded either condition had been breached.  
I said, in any event, the FCAs ICOBS 8.1.2(3)(b) only allows an insurer to reject a claim, for 
a breach of a condition, when its shown the breach was connected to the claim. I said AWP 
needed to show any failure to meet the servicing requirements was in some way linked to, or 
the cause, of the breakdown. I said I hadnt been shown that. 
 
I said, for those reasons, AWP hadnt shown it could fairly refuse Mr Ts claim or cancel his 
policy. I explained I was persuaded the policy covered the fault. Mr Ts diagnosis from his 
garage showed the fault was with the gearbox  a component covered by the policy. I said 
felt the issue was most likely a mechanical failure - as covered by the policy. So it was 
reasonable to say the breakdown was covered by the policy.
I said all this meant AWP had unfairly refused Mr Ts claim. To put things right I said I 
intended to require it to cover the cost of the repairs with a cash settlement. I took in to 
account a repair estimate for £5,061, diagnosis cost of £91 and a policy excess of £100. I 
said a claim limit of £5,000 would usually apply. 
However, as the estimate was from August 2020 it was likely repair costs had increased 
since then. I said I didnt think it fair that Mr T should fund the difference  after all it was 
AWP who unfairly refused to pay the claim in 2020. So I said intended to require AWP to pay 
an additional £350 to cover the likely higher cost of the work - £5,350 in total.  
I said £250 would be a fair amount for AWP to pay Mr T to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused. I explained that, despite the vehicle being the third one in the 
household, not having access to it for more than 14 months would probably have caused 
some inconvenience. I also felt the unfair refusal of the claim had caused Mr T some 
distress.
I also noted that AWP could deduct any policy premium refund, already paid to Mr T, from 
the total settlement of £5,600. Mr T accepted my proposed outcome, but AWP didnt 
respond. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out my reasons for upholding Mr Ts complaint  and for the proposed redress. He 
accepted without objection. AWP didnt respond. So I dont have any reason to change my 
position or outcome. 
So to make up for unfairly refusing Mr Ts claim and cancelling his policy AWP will need to 
pay Mr T £5,600  although it can deduct form that any refund of policy premium already 
paid.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, AWP P&C SA must pay Mr T £5,600 to settle his complaint. It 
can deduct any refund of policy premium already paid to him. AWP should pay Mr T within 
28 days of us telling it Mr Ts accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it should 
add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final decision to the date it 
makes payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman