DRN-3722961
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) didnt fairly 
settle their claim for damage to their roof under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Q noticed some internal damage to their property which looked like it had been 
caused by water. They pro-actively commissioned their own roofer to inspect the problem 
and he identified two holes in their fibreglass roof that he thought had been caused by a 
sharp object. In his opinion, he thought it likely the damage was caused by a joiners 
hammer. He recommended 45 square metres of the roof to be replaced at cost of over 
£10,000.
Mr and Mrs Q proceeded to make a claim for the damage to Lloyds under their insurance 
policy. Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to validate the damage. The loss adjuster said only a 
small area of the roof required a patch repair where a claw hammer had punctured a small 
area of the flat roof. The loss adjuster also identified internal damage to the one bedroom 
and a small area in the dining room.
Mr and Mrs Q complained that Lloyds wouldnt cover the replacement of the roof. Lloyds 
reviewed all the evidence that had been provided and maintained the decision of the loss 
adjuster to patch repair the roof and rectify the internal damage to the bedroom.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. Shes reviewed the photographs and 
report provided and thought Lloyds made a reasonable settlement of the claim. She didnt 
see any evidence that a large section of the roof should be covered under an escape of 
water claim. Mr and Mrs Q disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In setting out its response Lloyds pointed out a policy exclusion under accidental damage in 
the policy. The policy excludes accidental damage caused by a person whilst they are 
employed to conduct maintenance, repairs, building work or home improvements at your 
home. Lloyds said It is likely the damage found was as a result of a roofer carrying out 
previous repairs as the customer claims. However, the damage could have occurred at 
anytime, hence on this occasion weve given the customer the benefit of doubt.
Both Mr and Mrs Qs roofer and the loss adjuster concluded the damage was likely caused 
by a sharp object such as a joiners hammer. Mr and Mrs Q havent indicated they have 
been on the roof and caused the damage themselves, so I think its likely this was the cause. 
However, as Lloyds couldnt be completely sure of this, they decided to give Mr and Mrs Q 
the benefit if the doubt and it accepted their claim. I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The crux of this complaint is the level of damage that Lloyds was willing to cover compared 
with what Mr and Mrs Q believe should be covered as advised by their own roofer. So, Ive 
considered this.
Lloyds said the loss adjuster had concerns with the amount of damage the customer 
reported. The customer claimed water had travelled from the left-hand corner of the roof 
(where the holes are) to the right-hand side/corner, then passed through a bedroom and into 
the kitchen on the ground floor.
There was no visible damage internally below the flat roof (and bedroom ceiling/walls in that 
area where the claw hammer had punctured the roof were completely dry). These areas 
were also tested with a moisture meter which confirmed they were dry.
If the repairs are as the customers roofer quoted i.e., replace 45 square foot of wood and 
OSB boards, insulating wool and gypsum-carbon panels due to water damage. We would 
expect to see further internal damage to justify this. Theres also no evidence to suggest the 
whole roof would require replacing due to two small holes. Wed expect the areas inside to 
measure high for moisture if the customers builder was correct.
The loss adjuster confirmed the required repairs include a small patch repair of the fibre-
glass roof (not the whole roof) along with internal repairs to the bedroom only.
The settlement to repair the damage areas as confirmed within the scope of work is fair and 
reasonable and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs Q said we definitely want to have this complaint looked at again as the 
information you have is incorrectin particular, the photos showing no internal damage. 
That is exactly how we realised there was a problemthe internal damage!
We had to instruct a roofer to look and see what the problem was as we cannot access the 
roof ourselves, and we have a duty of care to ensure no further damage is being donethat 
is why the roofer did an immediate temporary repair.this was obviously accidental damage 
as no one went onto the roof to damage it maliciously and neither was it wear and tear.
I have reviewed the reports and photographs that have been provided and Im going to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs Q as Im not going to uphold this complaint. I think Lloyds has been 
fair in how theyve settled this claim. Ill explain why.
I can see Mr and Mrs Q thought their claim should be treated as an escape of water claim 
rather than accidental damage. I dont think it matters as Lloyds have accepted the claim.  I 
cant see how the claim could be categorised as escape of water as the water would need to 
be leaking from a fixed water source such as a burst water pipe. So, I dont think Lloyds has 
looked at this complaint unreasonably. As I said previously, I think its been fair in considering 
the claim and not declining the claim due to the exclusion clause.
Lloyds loss adjuster has provided a comprehensive report, it is accompanied by many 
photographs and I can see moisture readings were taken throughout the property. 
Therefore, I find the report and conclusions persuasive. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Qs roofer 
has suggested a large section of the roof needs replacing, however, he hasnt provided 
evidence to support this. I have viewed the photographs of the roof and generally it looks in 
good condition, there doesnt appear widespread damage that would require a large part of 
the roof to be replaced. As Lloyds loss adjuster had said, I wouldve expected much more 
extensive damage to be visible internally if the roof needed replacing. The loss adjuster 
added, wed expect the areas inside to measure high for moisture if the customers builder 
was correct.I think Lloyds has been reasonable in basing its decision on the loss adjusters findings. I 
find the loss adjusters findings to be fair based upon the evidence that has been presented. 
So, in conclusion, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman