DRN-2441631
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way that Fairmead Insurance Limited has handled their 
home insurance claim for damage caused to their house by a fallen tree. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ss home was damaged by a 70ft local authority owned tree, situated on their 
boundary, that came down in a storm in March 2019. The damage caused to the garden, the 
building and its contents was significant. Mr S made a claim to Fairmead. The claim was 
initially handled by Fairmeads underwriting agent, P, under a delegated authority 
arrangement. P accepted the claim on behalf of Fairmead (under the Fallen Tree peril) and 
appointed a loss adjuster to assess and validate it. 
The loss adjuster carried out his first site visit a few days later. He noted extensive damage 
to the rear of the house and placed an initial reserve of £82,500 on the claim. He noted the 
buildings sum insured was adequate at £1million. He also noted the contents sum insured 
was £75,000 and said in his first report to P a few days later, that the only adequate way to 
establish the value of the contents at risk was to prepare a fully costed inventory. 
Make safe works were undertaken (and reimbursed by P) and, on the loss adjusters 
recommendation, Mr and Mrs S appointed damage restoration experts to assess the 
affected contents. In the loss adjusters second report to P in mid-April it was again noted 
that that the only adequate way to establish the value of the contents at risk was to prepare 
a fully costed inventory. 
At the start of July, the loss adjuster that had been handling the claim left and was replaced 
by a colleague who reported again to P in early July. He said that three tenders were being 
sought from building contractors including one from insurers approved network. The report 
also commented that the restoration experts had now reported that there were many high-
value items damaged beyond economical repair. A first (incomplete) version at risk 
calculation inventory of contents provided by Mr and Mrs S had, by this point, valued their 
contents at £109,000. The loss adjuster noted that the contents sum insured of £75,000 was 
clearly inadequate and that the existing reserve was insufficient to cover the extent of the 
loss. He recommended to P that the reserve was increased to £220,000 for buildings and 
the full £75,000 for contents. 
Upon receipt of the report, P noted that there was substantial underinsurance which, it 
thought, may have implications for the claim acceptance. The claim was referred to 
underwriters in mid-July and A reservation of rights letter was purportedly issued to 
Mr and Mrs S at the same time. Mr and Mrs S sent P their contents list on 9 July. The 
tenders for the building work were sent to P on 29 July 2019.
Between 9 July and 25 September 2019 Mr and Mrs S heard nothing from P despite chasing 
it numerous times (via the loss adjuster). Mr and Mrs S remained in their damaged home 
throughout.  On 23 September they made a formal complaint to P. Mr and Mrs S asked P to 
make a final decision about their claim which was now 28 weeks old. They said that P had 
had the tenders for over 8 weeks and all the information about their contents before that, yet 
they had received no information about the status of their claim. Mr and Mrs S said that all 
they had received were holding responses from the loss adjuster in reply to their emails. 
They said that P had ignored their requests about the provision of alternative 
accommodation and theyd continued to live in their badly damaged home with one of their 
elderly, unwell mothers since March. Mr and Mrs S said they had reduced living space, that 
parts of the house were unsafe and that P had done nothing to resolve their situation. Mr 
and Mrs S listed the 10 dates on which they had emailed insurers for an update on the 
status of their claim which had all gone unanswered. Mr and Mrs S said they were 
experiencing ongoing disruption and upset in their lives. 
P wrote to Mr and Mrs S on 25 September 2019. It said it would review their complaint 
separately but in the meantime it had concerns over whether their contents had been 
undervalued when cover was taken out (in early 2019). P said the type of policy 
Mr and Mrs S had only allowed a maximum sum insured for contents of £75,000 but it now 
appeared the actual value of the contents in their home was more than double that amount. 
P said if it had known this then it wouldnt have issued Mr and Mrs P with a policy. P said 
Mr and Mrs S were under a duty (set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012  CIDRA) to take reasonable care when making 
representations. P said that where incorrect information had been provided it was, in certain 
circumstances, permitted to avoid the contract. 
P said it hadnt yet reached a final decision about what to do but in the interests of fairness it 
asked Mr and Mrs S to provide a very clear and detailed explanation of why the information 
presented in relation to the value of their contents was so significantly misrepresented. 
Mr and Mrs S sent P their 16-page detailed response on 22 October 2019. In it they 
explained how they had acquired their contents over the years (often from auction websites 
so they had no idea what the retail price of an item would be) and how they had no idea 
when they applied for cover that their replacement value was much more than their purchase 
price. They said they hadnt misrepresented the value of their contents and explained in 
detail how they truly believed that £75,000 was way more cover than they actually needed. 
They said they understood the average clause contained in their policy as the first loss 
adjuster had explained it to them earlier in the claim. Mr and Mrs S said they accepted it was 
likely to apply in their circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S said that where, for example, the replacement value of their dining room table 
and chairs was cited as £23,000 by the restoration experts, they had bought it second-hand 
in 2017 for £4,350 (proof of payment was provided) and they had no idea when they 
purchased the items that they were worth that much. Mr and Mrs S said that they had valued 
their contents as being worth no more than £54,500 so, in taking out £75,000 of cover they 
honestly thought they were adequately protected. 
Mr and Mrs S asked that Fairmead take what theyd said into account and accept their claim 
and move it along. 
P wrote to Mr and Mrs S on 21 November 2019. The letter was both Ps final response to 
their complaint of 23 September and to their more recent letter of 22 October 2019. P said 
that underwriters had recently agreed that Mr and Mrs S hadnt carelessly or negligently 
underinsured their contents. P said their explanation demonstrated that the valuation of their 
contents had been honestly made so it would not be avoiding the policy. P said it 
appreciated that itd taken some time to reach this decision and that thered been a delay in 
the progression of the claim. P said the first loss adjuster had failed to recognise that the 
contents were underinsured which resulted in the issue not being notified to underwriters 
until July 2019. P offered Mr and Mrs S compensation of £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd been caused by the delay in progression of their claim. P said the loss adjuster would be in touch with them shortly to discuss progression and settlement of their 
claim. 
By the time P issued its final response letter of 21 November 2019, Mr and Mrs S had 
already made a complaint to this service (complaint 1). That complaint related to events 
between the date the claim was notified (March 2019) and the date of Ps decision not to 
avoid the claim in mid-November 2019 and was upheld by our investigator in July 2020. He 
recommended that Fairmead pay Mr and Mrs S a further £400 (in addition to the £400 it 
offered in November 2019) for poor claims handling and avoidable delays. Fairmead 
disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for that complaint (complaint 1) to be 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
Following Ps final response letter of 21 November 2019, the loss adjuster contacted 
Mr and Mrs S and by 13 December a settlement amount for the damaged contents had been 
agreed (having applied the policys average clause) along with some outstanding expenses 
theyd paid. A revised sum for the building repairs was also negotiated and agreed between 
Mr and Mrs S and the loss adjuster such that by 17 January 2020 the loss adjuster 
confirmed to them that this was the amount he was recommending to Fairmead to cash 
settle the claim. 
Despite several chaser communications from Mr and Mrs S to the loss adjuster and from the 
loss adjuster to P/Fairmead, no payment for either the building or contents parts of the claim 
had been paid by the beginning of February 2020. Frustrated by the lack of progress, Mr and 
Mrs S again approached this service. Mr and Mrs S continued to live in their damaged home 
throughout with Mrs Ss aged and infirm mother who at times they had to send to stay with 
relatives due to the cold and dangerous state of the house. Mr and Mrs S explained to our 
investigator that P/Fairmead remained uncommunicative and that they were considering 
raising a second complaint. 
Shortly after, Mr S told our investigator that the contents claim had been settled by Fairmead 
(for just over £41,000). 
Mr and Mrs raised a second complaint with P on 14 February 2020 which it acknowledged 
shortly after. When the 8 weeks in which Fairmead was required to respond to 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint had passed, they wrote to our investigator again to ask that this 
service set up this second complaint. They said their claim was now 57 weeks old, that no 
alternative accommodation had been provided, that no green light had been given to start 
the building works, that theyd received no update on the status of their buildings claim and 
no response from Fairmead to their complaint. They said the situation was upsetting and 
stressful. 
Our investigator set up this (second) complaint against Fairmead. In the meantime, 
Mr and Mrs S continued to chase Fairmead (via the loss adjuster) about the status of their 
claim. At the end of May 2020, the loss adjuster told Mr and Mrs S he was meeting with 
Fairmead the following week and was optimistic something concrete would emerge from the 
meeting. When, by mid-June 2020 they had heard nothing again, Mr and Mrs S contacted 
the loss adjuster. They said they had no contact from Fairmead for over six months yet they 
continued to live in hardship, the quality of their life had been compromised and that not one 
deadline for payments, complaints, response promises etc. had been met by Fairmead 
during the duration of the whole claim. Mr and Mrs S said they had suffered incalculable hurt 
and spent hours of wasted time trying to get answers. 
Our investigator looked into this second complaint for Mr and Mrs S. In turn Mr and Mrs S 
continued to push the loss adjuster through to the end of August. He told them at the end of 
June 2020 that the settlement proposals agreed in January were always subject to Fairmeads approval. He said Fairmead had raised specific issues regarding the inclusion in 
the settlement amount of certain provisional sums that ultimately may not be required and 
the inclusion of VAT without the provision of invoices first. The loss adjuster said he hoped to 
get instructions from Fairmead and have news for them soon. Mr S said he couldnt 
understand why itd taken Fairmead six months to ask these questions. 
On 16 September 2020, Mr S let our investigator know that Fairmead had paid the majority 
of the cash settlement into his account (£190,082.72). 
Our investigator issued his findings into this complaint on 8 December 2020. He explained 
that this complaint related to the period between 21 November 2019 and 16 September 
2020. He said he thought P/Fairmead had unreasonably delayed the claim despite being 
aware of Mr and Mrs Ss personal situation as carers for their two elderly mothers. He 
thought Fairmead had caused Mr and Mrs S a lot of un-necessary additional distress for 
which it should pay them compensation of £1,500. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted our investigators findings. P replied to say Fairmead wanted the 
complaint referred for an ombudsmans decision; it provided no other comments.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is the second of two made by Mr and Mrs S to this service about their home 
insurance claim for damage caused by a falling tree. As stated above it relates to the period 
after P/Fairmead issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Ss first complaint on 
21 November 2019 and the date it partially settled the buildings aspect of their claim on 
16 September 2020. 
For the sake of completeness only, I note that whilst this second complaint was awaiting 
allocation to an ombudsman Mr and Mrs S continued to keep our investigator up to date 
about the claim and the ongoing issues they continued to experience with P/Fairmead. 
Specifically, they forwarded our investigator an 18-page letter theyd sent Fairmeads chief 
executive in March 2021 setting out a complete account of everything they had experienced 
in the last two years. In that letter they also asked Fairmead to pay the balance of their 
buildings claim settlement and the cost of their alternative accommodation. Ill refer to this 
letter as Mr and Mrs S third complaint.
In response to their third complaint, P wrote to Mr and Mrs S to say it was prepared to pay 
them a further £56,402.16 for their buildings claim, another £12,441.56 to reflect inflationary 
cost increases during the claim and £50,000 for alternative accommodation. In total, P has 
offered Mr and Mrs P an additional £118,843.72 in full and final settlement of their claim. 
A senior complaints consultant at Fairmead then began to look into Mr and Mrs Ss third 
complaint, writing them an interim letter on 15 April 2021 addressing many of the questions 
they had raised over the preceding two years. Fairmeads final response to this complaint is 
still pending. 
These are issues that, if not resolved by Fairmead to Mr and Mrs Ss satisfaction, will need 
to form part of a third complaint to this service. Im afraid I cant look at them here. It is however, clear to me that P/Fairmead failed Mr and Mrs S between November 2019 and 
September 2020. I can see that P wrote to the loss adjuster on 26 November 2019 informing 
him there would be no policy avoidance and that the claim was to proceed to settlement on 
best terms. The loss adjuster then proceeded a fourth interim report for P on 17 December 
2019 settling out the calculation for the contents settlement. Fairmead appeared from an 
email exchange to have agreed the payment in late January 2020 and told P to pay it. P then 
forgot to do so until 6 February 2020. 
The next report from the loss adjuster wasnt until 5 May 2020 stating the estimated building 
repair costs had been negotiated and further information from the surveyor had been 
requested. No mention was made of why it had taken six months since the underinsurance 
matter had been resolved to get to this point nor was there mention of when the claim would 
be paid or the works start. Mr and Mrs S have said that agreement regarding the buildings 
aspect of the claim had been agreed with the loss adjuster on 17 January 2020. I can see 
that the loss adjuster told them in May 2020 that this agreement was subject to Fairmeads 
approval. 
What isnt clear to me is why it took between November 2019 and January 2020 for an 
agreement to be reached regarding the buildings settlement (the tenders having been with 
Fairmead for some time by this point). Nor is there any explanation for why it took from 
January 2020 to May 2020 to request further information from the surveyor. And it is unclear 
why Mr and Mrs S had to repeatedly chase Fairmead via the loss adjuster from May through 
to September 2020 to try and ascertain the status of their claim. The delays with their claim 
seem to me  even allowing for Fairmead to take some time to check a few matters prior to 
paying the claim  to be entirely unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs S repeatedly made P/Fairmead aware of the distress and inconvenience they 
were being caused by having to remain in their damaged and, (throughout the winter) cold 
home and how hard it was for them to care for their mothers in such circumstances. Yet 
despite doing so Ive seen no evidence of any urgency on the part of P/Fairmead to move 
the claim forward or bring it to full and final settlement since the loss adjusters 
December 2019 report which indicated work would start following a meeting with the 
contractor. 
I can see  as set out above  there were certain other costs (VAT, contingency, cost 
increases etc.) that Fairmead wanted and needed clarifying before finalising settlement. And 
of course, it is entirely reasonable for an insurer to want to check such costs before settling 
the claim. But is only fair that a reasonable amount of time is taken to do so. Given the 
circumstances of this claim, and the point it had reached by December 2019, I dont think 
Fairmead taking a further 9 months to part-settle the buildings aspect of the claim was fair or 
reasonable. And all the while Mr and Mrs S were largely in the dark about the status of the 
claim and the reasons why it was all taking so long. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr and Mrs S have shown great patience, fortitude and 
tolerance throughout their claim. Unfortunately for Fairmead, its customer service standards 
have been poor throughout and its my view that its treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly and 
unreasonably by delaying their claim, not communicating with them adequately and causing 
them significant, un-necessary and avoidable trouble and upset in the process. I think that 
the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs S had already endured during the first eight months of the 
claim meant the trouble and upset they endured during the next ten months through to 
September 2020 was exacerbated. And Ive borne this in mind when thinking about the 
amount of compensation they should fairly be awarded for this, their second, complaint. 
I think that Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs S £1,500 for the significant shortcomings in its 
customer service during the period November 2019 to September 2020. That the claim 
wasnt moved forward in a timely manner meant Mr and Mrs S remained in a house exposed to the winter weather and which remained a somewhat hazardous place to live. On top of the 
delays caused by Fairmead in the first 8 months of their claim, I can see that this has caused 
them increased, additional, avoidable distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
All insurance claims, by their very nature, attract a certain degree of inconvenience and often 
distress for a policyholder. But where an insurer, through its words or actions, makes an 
already distressing situation worse, this service can recommend that it pays compensation to 
the consumer. Ive thought about the avoidable trouble and upset that Fairmead and P put 
Mr and Mrs S to after Fairmead confirmed the claim would be moving forward in November 
2019. I agree with our investigator, for the reasons Ive set out above, that Fairmead should 
be required to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs P of £1,500 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused to them from November 2019 to September 2020. This is in line 
with awards made by our service in similar circumstances.
 
Fairmead firm must pay the compensation awarded within 28 days of the date we tell them 
that Mr and Mrs S have accepted my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs S compensation of £1,500 for the trouble and upset they were caused as Ive 
explained above in the Putting things right section of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman