DRN-3679230
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. Mr S said that hed been 
told he may have to make minimal contributions to the loan at the start, but the benefits 
would repay the loan within the term of the loan. 
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Omni didnt agree saying it didnt feel Mr S had substantiated his claim with evidence and 
that the complaint had been upheld solely on Mr Ss testimony. Omni also felt that the credit 
agreement would only ever have the financial information related to the credit and not 
information related to the product it was used to purchase. It said the installer likely gave 
Mr S estimated benefits document which would have compared the benefits with the costs  
as it has done so in other cases. It also set out that the solar panel system seemed to be 
working as designed and Mr S had received some benefit. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Omni is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I understand Omni feels that the complaint has been upheld based on Mr Ss testimony 
alone and theres no corroborative evidence. It adds that the installer usually used an 
estimated benefits document which would have compared the benefits with the costs. 
I can see the contract given by the installer does have the power generation figure on the 
same page as the cash price  but the estimated performance was set out as a SAP figure 
rather than what that means in financial terms. Given Mr S was not the expert in solar panel 
performance and annual generation, I think he would have relied on the installer to help him 
understand what that means. And he says he was assured that the solar panels would be 
self-funding within the loan term, albeit he may need to make small contributions at an early 
stage. Mr Ss testimony has been clear and consistent throughout, so I think its reliable 
evidence.
I appreciate credit agreements would not usually have any estimated benefit information. 
Where estimated benefits are discussed, there is usually an estimated benefits document 
completed and a copy left with the consumer. So wed normally expect to see a document 
setting out the costs and benefits which would help us decide whether the installer had made 
it clear to consumers what the likely benefits of the panels were, and how that would impact 
their payments. 
Ive thought carefully about Omnis comments, that the estimated benefits document usually 
used by this installer would have compared the benefit with the cost. However, weve seen 
no evidence that this was used in Mr Ss case, whether it was completed correctly, if at all. 
Additionally, even if one had been used, the figures may well have pointed to the solar 
panels being self-funding. We must decide each case on the individual merits of that case, 
and Ive seen no evidence Mr S was given this document, or what the figures might have 
been. And Mr S says he wasnt given a document with any figures to keep, so he cannot 
produce something he does not have. He was only assured that the solar panels would be 
self-funding. 
So, while I understand Omnis concerns, Im still satisfied that Mr Ss testimony is reliable. 
And I think the documents he has produced gives a good indication of the likely discussions 
Mr S had with the installer. And they do not make it clear that the benefits the solar panels 
will likely produce, would not be sufficient to cover the finance payments.  
And while the solar panels may well be working as designed and producing some benefit, 
Mr Ss complaint is that he was assured these benefits would be sufficient to make the solar 
panel system self-funding within the 10 year term of the loan. 
So, having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for him.
So, I think that Omni didnt treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Omni did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Omni needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for Omni to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over a 10-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Omni needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr S by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Omni to 
restructure Mr Ss loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 10-year period.Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr S has settled the loan, Omni should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Omni and Omni should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Omni loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Omni that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Omni should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman