The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the way Allianz Insurance Plc has handled a claim hes made on his 
buildings insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the time it took for the claim to be dealt 
with, the proposed remedial work and the claim for loss of rent being declined.
What happened
In June 2017, Mr T made a claim on his buildings insurance policy for damage to his 
property. Allianz accepted the claim and Mr Ts property was then the subject of monitoring 
for some time in connection with the subsidence. Much of this issue is covered by another 
complaint considered by this service. 
This complaint concerns matters after Allianz issued its final response on 18 November 2019 
until it issued a further final response on 20 January 2020.
Between the two final responses, there have been further monitoring readings. Allianz 
believes the property is now stable and Mr T disagrees. Allianz intends to proceed with 
repairs to the damage caused by subsidence, but Mr T disagrees and believes Allianz 
should underpin the property.
Mr T also says his ceiling is not safe and wants Allianz to provide cover under loss of rent. 
Hes said he wouldve rented part of the property out after his mother passed away. Allianz 
has said the conditions for loss of rent under the policy have not been met.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She felt that Allianzs decision to proceed with 
repairs without underpinning was fair as the property was shown to be stable. She said loss 
of rent was not payable under the policy as the property wasnt uninhabitable. She also felt 
that Allianzs apology and feedback for the late appointment arrival in November 2019 was 
fair and there was no evidence of unavoidable or unreasonable delays.
Because Mr T didnt agree with our investigator, this case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This includes the additional points Mr T 
raised following our investigators view. Ive reached the same conclusions on this complaint 
as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The evidence Ive seen shows Mr T raised concerns about the monitoring readings provided 
by Allianzs chosen company and Allianz therefore agreed to get a new monitoring company 
DRN-1742667to attend  the new company attended on 2 January 2020. In-between this time Mr T made a 
claim for loss of rent and raised concerns about the condition of the property  Allianz 
reviewed and responded to these points, asking Mr T for further evidence to help it review 
further. I cant see that further evidence was provided by Mr T.
Ive not seen any evidence of avoidable delays caused by Allianz from 18 November 2019. 
From what Ive seen, Allianz has taken a reasonable amount of time to arrange further 
readings by a different company to address Mr Ts concerns and has reviewed the other 
points he raised. I can see that one of Allianzs representatives was late to arrive for an 
arranged appointment in November 2019, but I consider Allianzs apology and internal 
feedback to be sufficient to address this.
Loss of rent
Mr T claimed for loss of rent so Ive considered what the policy terms say about this. The 
policy only provides cover for rent Mr T would have received if the home cannot be lived in. 
There is also a maximum amount of £25,000 payable for any one claim under this section.
Cover for loss of rent would only apply when the property cannot be lived in. Mr T says this 
requirement is met because there are cracks in the ceilings and walls and the property would 
be impossible to rent out. Id consider that a property cannot be lived in where it was proven 
to be unsafe to live in or that it is without essential facilities. Ive not seen sufficient evidence 
to show this was the case here. 
But even if I were to accept the property was uninhabitable it appears there was no tenant - 
and therefore no rent - prior to or during the claim, so I dont consider Mr T has 
demonstrated that he wouldve received rent in line with the terms. Allianz has asked him for 
evidence of this but Ive not seen that this was provided.
Mr T says he wouldnt be able to rent the property out but a home being unable to be lived in 
is different to it being inconvenient to live in or unattractive to prospective tenants. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mr T was unable to live in his home, so I think Allianz 
has acted fairly in declining cover for loss of rent. 
Ceiling safety
Mr T has raised concerns about the safety of his ceiling but I cant see hes responded to 
Allianzs request for further information so it can review this and carry out repairs to make 
this safe where necessary. On this point, I dont think Allianz needs to do anything more until 
Mr T is able to provide this information. If at any point the home was proven or deemed to be 
uninhabitable, Allianz would only have to provide loss of rent/alternative accommodation 
cover for the time taken to ensure the home can be lived in. This could mean immediate 
action to address any safety concerns (such as the ceiling if proven) and may mean this 
cover still wouldnt be necessary.
Other remedial work
Finally, Mr T claims the property isnt stable and that Allianz therefore needs to underpin it. 
Allianz has relied on the evidence provided by two different specialist monitoring companies, 
both of which have concluded, following inspection and readings, that the property is now 
stable. Mr T hasnt provided sufficient evidence to support his view that it isnt. Im satisfied it 
was reasonable for Allianz to rely on the evidence available to say the property is stable. Mr T wants Allianz to underpin the property in order to prevent future damage and to avoid 
alternative repairs affecting its future sale. He also said the property needs to be brought 
back to level.
The evidence so far shows that the offending vegetation was the cause of the subsidence 
and that removal of the vegetation put a stop to the movement and ensured the property is 
stable. Where root induced clay shrinkage is the cause of subsidence, addressing the cause 
- in this case, the vegetation - is usually sufficient to ensure that the soil beneath the property
is able to return to its previous volume without the effects of the roots extracting moisture.
Ive not seen any evidence to show this isnt the case here, or expert opinion to say
underpinning is the only reasonable cause of action to address the damage.
Furthermore, the insurance policy Mr T has with Allianz only provides cover for when a loss 
occurs. It doesnt exist to provide cover for actions necessary to prevent future loss. All 
Allianz needs to do is take action to ensure a lasting and effective repair and there is no 
evidence to show what Allianz proposes to do doesnt amount to this. 
The policy also specifically excludes cover for loss in the market value of the property as a 
result of repairs. So although Mr T may be right that repairs could affect the future sale, this 
doesnt mean Allianz is obliged to underpin the property.
Mr T has said on a number of occasions he wants to arrange an inspection by his own 
structural engineer but so far hasnt done this. My decision has been based on the 
information we have. Allianz has always said it is willing to review any further evidence Mr T 
can provide, so if Mr T does obtain any further information, he should send this to Allianz for 
it to review.
Overall, based on everything Ive seen on this complaint, I dont think Allianz has acted 
unfairly in how its decided the claim and I dont think Allianz has caused unreasonable 
delays.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman