DRN-2323552
The complaint
Mr N has complained that damage was caused to his car when he sought assistance under 
his Rescue Insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr N said he had a slow puncture and he requested roadside assistance under his Rescue 
Insurance policy. UKI arranged for his car to be taken to a nearby garage as Mr N didnt 
have a spare tyre to replace the slow punctured tyre.
Mr N said that when he collected his car, he found a different tyre had been slashed. He said 
the garage told him his car had arrived that way. Mr N took his car to another garage to 
repair the slashed tyre.
Mr N complained to UKI. He said the tyre had been slashed while in their care.
UKI contacted the agent who collected Mr Ns car and sent photos Mr N provided of the 
damaged tyre. The collection agent said the damage couldnt have been caused by their 
equipment as they use soft straps. The damage was a clear straight cut, which most likely 
had been done with a blade. The collection agent said if their equipment could cause 
damage to a tyre like Mr Ns, it would cause damage to most of the vehicles it collects in the 
same way. 
Mr N remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He was unhappy that he 
wasnt provided with paperwork to record pre-existing damage by the collection agent. Mr N 
wanted UKI to cover the costs to repair the tyre and compensate him for the inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there was 
evidence to show UKI was responsible for the damage Mr N claimed for. He found that a job 
sheet had been completed online but due to Covid 19 restrictions no signature was 
recorded, so he didnt think UKI had acted unreasonably in not providing paperwork. 
Mr N didnt agree. He says that he is being punished through no fault of his own as he didnt 
cause damage to the tyre. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has provided a copy of the job sheet provided by the collection agent. This didnt 
specifically identify damage to Mr Ns other tyre. I understand Mr N is unhappy that the 
garage told him it didnt see or sign a job sheet for delivery of his car. 
However, the collection agent provided photos of both sides of the car which showed the 
nearside (left) rear tyre was flat. It isnt possible to tell from the photos if there was damage 
to the offside (right) rear tyre, which is the cause of Mr Ns complaint. This is because the car 
is parked tightly against a kerb. But I wouldnt have expected the agent to take close up 
photos of the other tyres - as the reason for the callout was due to a punctured tyre on the 
other side of the car.
The collection agent explained that they dont use anything sharp when moving vehicles. 
And so they said it isnt possible for the slash damage to have been caused by their 
equipment. 
I think theres been some confusion regarding the collection agents comment that  if their 
equipment had caused the slash damage to Mr Ns tyre, it would cause damage to all tyres 
of the vehicles it collects. Mr N has asked how it was possible for the collection agent to 
move his car without causing damage to the other tyres, based on this statement. The point 
the agent is making is that it doesnt believe its possible their equipment caused the damage 
because they use the same method to collect many vehicles - but the damage Mr N is 
claiming for isnt something theyve found with other collections. 
The garage provided a quotation which reads that Mr Ns car was brought in for a puncture 
to the offside (right) rear tyre and that on inspection, they noticed that the nearside (left) rear 
tyre had a slash mark. So the garage referred to the tyres as the other way around to Mr N 
and the collection agent. But Im satisfied this is an administration error by the garage  as 
photos clearly show the nearside (left) rear tyre was flat. 
I understand Mr N believes the slashed tyre must have been damaged either by the 
collection agent or the garage. And I realise Mr N will be very disappointed with my decision. 
But there isnt sufficient evidence to show that the slash damage was done while under the 
care of UKI. I think its possible the damage was already there when his car was collected for 
the punctured nearside rear tyre. And so this means I dont think UKI should cover the costs 
of its repair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman