DRN-2965954
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Calpe Insurance Company Limited calculated his premium refund 
after he cancelled his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A cancelled his car insurance policy with Calpe a little under two months after it began. 
After realising that hed receive only a partial refund of his premium, Mr A complained to the 
insurer.
Calpe explained that the premium it charged and its refund rates take in to account the 
higher level of risk associated with the early stages of an insurance policy. So it would only 
provide a 60% premium refund in line with its policy terms.
Mr A asked this service to review the matter. Our investigator concluded that Calpe had 
applied its policy terms fairly. Remaining unhappy, Mr A asked for an ombudsman to carry 
out a final review of his complaint.
My provisional decision
I recently issued my provisional findings, explaining why I intended to uphold this complaint:
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy set out the premium refund that would be due to 
him if he cancelled the policy early. The relevant part of these terms explains that Mr A 
would be due a 60% refund if he cancelled the policy after receiving up to two months of 
cover. Mr A cancelled his policy after it had run for a little under two months  so Calpe said 
it will only provide a 60% refund of his premium. But I dont think this is fair.
Calpe says its refund rates reflect the spread of risk across the policy term. Calpe sent us 
data to show that more claims are made in the first few months of a policy year than the last 
few months. But Calpe doesnt provide any refund to customers who cancel their polices 
after eight months. So, in my view, this doesnt reflect the actual spread of claims, as the 
refund rates suggest no claims are made in the final few months of the year. But Calpes 
data shows that claims are in fact made in the final few months of the year  albeit a lower 
amount. 
I dont think this is fair as the refund terms seem to be very much one-sided, so Mr A ends 
up paying a disproportionate amount for the time he was on cover. In my opinion, it would be 
fairer to charge Mr A for cover on a pro-rata basis.
Mr A didnt provide any further comments. Calpe disagreed with my findings  it said that the 
premium Mr A was charged isnt based on risk alone, as it takes in to account the costs 
Calpe incurs in providing its policies to customers. Calpe says the fixed costs of providing its 
policies outweigh the small premium refund that would be offered for cancellation during the 
latter period of the policy term  where the residual risk is low.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Calpes additional comments, but my decision remains the same. 
Calpe hasnt evidenced or persuaded me about the actual impact on the premium caused by 
the business costs it refers to. Calpe makes it clear in its policy terms that it charges 
administration fees for different reasons  among others, this includes fees for making 
changes to a policy and for cancellation. So its unclear to me why the insurer feels its 
reasonable for its business costs to outweigh the need to charge Mr A proportionately for the 
time on risk. 
In my opinion, the premium charged for the time on risk should be proportionate to the actual 
risk. So Im still upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, Calpe should charge Mr A only for the time he was on cover. If this 
means a refund is due to him, then it should pay this to him and pay 8% simple interest on 
this amount  calculated from the date of cancellation to the date of settlement. 
As HM Revenue and Customs requires Calpe to deduct tax from the interest, if Mr A 
requests one, Calpe will need to give him a certificate to show how much was deducted.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Calpe Insurance Company Limited should settle this complaint 
in line with what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman