DRN-2732582
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to 
her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Miss B had two credit cards with Barclaycard. One had a limit of £3,200 (Card 1) the other a 
limit of £1,000 (Card 2). In August 2019 she called Barclaycard to let them know shed been 
made redundant. She paid off the balances on both cards.  She continued to use the cards 
and in February 2020 both cards were cancelled, and defaults registered.
Miss B complained. She said Barclaycard shouldve cancelled the cards when she called 
them in August 2019  as she said then she was struggling. Shed been made redundant 
and had no prospect of any work - she was also pregnant and had to take time off. But they 
let her keep the cards and she continued to spend on them. She said her other lenders 
either cancelled her cards or reduced her limits, so Barclaycard shouldve done the same. 
She accepted shed spent the money, but she was tempted  also, she was a single parent 
with three children and had to support them. She wanted the defaults removed from her 
credit file.
Barclaycard said that on the call in August 2019, Miss B asked that her accounts remained 
open. Miss B told them in February 2020 she was in financial difficulty. An income and 
expenditure form completed then showed she had negative monthly disposable income of 
£244. Interest and fees were stopped, the cards suspended, and a notice of default sent to 
Miss B. She didnt respond and so they registered defaults on both cards on her credit file.
Miss B brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that Barclaycard hadnt acted 
entirely fairly. She felt that on the call on 16 August 2019, Miss B gave enough information to 
show she was in financial difficulty and they should therefore have completed further checks 
to find out about her situation before letting her use the cards further. Our investigator said 
Barclaycard should refund interest and charges from August 2019 until February 2020  at 
which point Barclaycard suspended interest and fees. She said the defaults should remain.
Barclaycard disagreed and asked that Miss Bs complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. 
They said that on the call in August 2019, Miss B said she could afford to pay her priority 
bills and repaid the card balances in full. It wasnt their policy to do an income and 
expenditure analysis unless a customer stated they were in financial difficulty. If theyd 
completed an income and expenditure form then, it would have been ok  as she had cash 
of £3,300 to pay off her cards. Miss B had then chosen to spend on her cards again  and 
some of it was non-discretionary spending.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Miss Bs complaint is what was discussed when she called Barclaycard on 16 
August 2019  and how this shouldve been interpreted. Ive listened to the call, and there 
are arguments for both sides. But - in cases like this, I must make a balanced judgement of 
what was intended to happen. 
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether 
Barclaycard acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
Looking at the background to what happened before the call  Miss Bs two accounts had 
missed payments before then  one for two consecutive months, one for three months. Card 
2 was on hold  i.e. suspended. On the call, Miss B says that she asked for both cards to 
be suspended when shed called earlier in the month  and asked why that hadnt 
happened. She asked if she can come to an agreement to settle the accounts (i.e. in full and 
final settlement). The call handler says he understands shes pregnant  and that shes not 
looking for a job  Miss B confirmed that to be correct. She said shed been made redundant 
and said I cant pay them regardlessIm using my redundancy to pay off my debtsif not 
Ill just have to go to a debt companyId rather settle with you rather than go to a debt 
company as thats not going to work out for either if us is it?...I have loads of debts I want to 
pay off. Youre the first one Ive rungso if I pay £3,000 and settle the other account they 
will be closed and finished?
The call handler then negotiates with Miss B and they agree she can pay £3,000 on Card 1 
in full and final settlement  but her credit file would be marked as a partial settlement. Miss 
B then says she would pay off both cards. The payment request sent to her bank was then 
declined twice and she agreed to call back to make payment.
The call handler asked Miss B twice if she could pay her priority bills  and she said she 
could. He also said she could either cancel the cards or continue to use them. 
Barclaycard told us their policy is not to do an income and expenditure form unless 
customers state theyre in financial difficulty. And if they had, it would have looked ok 
because Miss B had her redundancy money. We cant say for certain what it would have 
shown  but Miss B showed us evidence she was on income support of £1,260 per month at 
the time and had to take loans of £1,193 from DWP to pay rent and bills.
But  on balance, I think there was enough evidence on the call in August 2019 which 
shouldve alerted Barclaycard that Miss B was in financial difficulty. So, they shouldve asked 
more questions of her  by asking her to fill in an income and expenditure form, what were 
her other debts and commitments, and intentions to return to work in the future. Had they 
done so, I think it was likely they wouldve cancelled her cards or at least reduced the limits 
on them.  
Putting things right
 Miss B repaid both cards on 19 August 2019  and then ran up debts again on them up to their limits. Which she couldnt afford to repay. I think it was up to Miss B whether she spent 
more money on the cards again  so the debts are her responsibility. And shes had the 
benefit of the goods and services she paid for. So  I dont think its fair to ask Barclaycard to 
remove the defaults from her credit file. But I agree with our investigator that they should 
refund all interest and charges on both cards from 19 August 2019 to the point when they 
agreed an interest and charges freeze in February 2020. And its also sensible for both Miss 
B and Barclaycard to agree a mutually agreeable payment plan for the debts from now and 
going forward.   
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should:
Refund all interest and charges on Miss Bs two credit cards from 18 August 2019 up 
to February 2020.
Agree a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Miss B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman