DRN-4410662
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) wont refunds a payment it didnt make. Mr A, who is a director of W, brings the 
complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In September 2023, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I intended to uphold Ws 
complaint. Both sides accepted my findings, so I see no reason to depart from what Ive 
said. For completeness, Ive explained my reasons again below. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that W 
isnt liable for payments it didnt authorise. So Ive firstly considered whether this 
disputed payment would be regarded as authorised under the PSRs.
These explain that to consider a payment authorised, W must have given its consent 
to it  and that consent must have been in the form, and in accordance with the 
procedure, agreed between it and NatWest.
NatWest hasnt provided us with the applicable terms and conditions from when the 
disputed payment happened to determine the agreed form and procedure. So Ive 
considered the practical steps that needed to happen for this disputed debit card 
payment.
Its my understanding that Mr A wouldve needed to enter Ws card details on the 
merchants website, and when prompted, enter a code received by text.
Its not been disputed that fraudsters used Mr As stolen card details on the 
merchants website and entered the code they tricked him into sharing by saying it 
would approve a refund for a fraudulent payment.
It follows that I cant reasonably say that Mr A gave his consent to the payment using 
the agreed form and procedure.
Ive also considered whether Mr A could reasonably be said to have given permission 
for someone else to go through the agreed form and procedure on his behalf.
Mr A acknowledged that he shared a code and replied to a fraud alert. But as Ive 
said, he was tricked into doing this, thinking he was speaking to PayPal and hed get 
a refund for fraud. And it seems the fraudsters had stolen Ws card details prior to the 
call. Given this deception, I dont think I could reasonably conclude he gave 
permission for someone else to consent to the payment. It follows that Im satisfied 
this payment was unauthorised in line with the PSRs.
Ive gone on to consider whether, in line with the PSRs, NatWest has shown theres a 
reason W shouldnt be refunded. While its not explicitly stated a reason, its pointed 
out how Mr A shared a code with fraudsters. So Ive looked at whether he failed with 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep Ws personalised 
security details safe  something which, if proven, would mean W wouldnt be entitled 
to a refund under the PSRs.
To assess this, Ive reflected on the circumstances on the scam. Mr A received an 
email that appeared to come from PayPal, asking him to call a number if he didnt 
recognise the payment. When he did, they said his account had been compromised  
he recalled they knew lots of personal and sensitive information and a message 
appeared on his PayPal account when he logged on. So I can see why he trusted the 
call was genuine and why he became concerned for the safety of Ws money. I think 
lots of people wouldve done in these convincing circumstances.
Mr A recalled he was instructed to share a code from a message hed receive from 
NatWest  this was to refund him for fraudulent payments. Ive noted this message 
said not to reveal it, as well as how it confirmed a purchase and how only a fraudster 
would ask for it. But Mr A explained he didnt read this properly at the time  instead 
he trusted the instructions from who he thought was PayPal.
Im mindful Mr A wasnt an expert in a fraud  so I can how it seemed plausible he 
needed to share the code for a refund. And I recognise Mr A was acting in the heat of 
the moment with someone he was cleverly duped into trusting  so I can also 
understand how he simply focused on and shared the code. Indeed, I note its 
underlined and in another colour on his phone, making it easier to spot.
I recognise Mr A also replied Y to a message asking him to confirm whether he just 
made a transaction. But hes pointed out that the message also said that replying will 
not cause the transaction to go through. In the circumstances when Mr A thought he 
was following PayPals instructions for a refund, I can see how he could have thought 
a transaction referred to a refund  and how the messages reassurance that it 
wouldnt make money leave meant it didnt ring alarm bells.
Of course, this isnt to say Mr A acted perfectly reasonably. Indeed, its possible to 
call these actions careless. But, based on what Ive seen, Ive not been persuaded 
that he acted with very significant carelessness to conclude that he failed with gross 
negligence.
It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider W can be fairly held liable for 
this unauthorised payment and NatWest needs to put things right  by refunding Ws 
losses from the payment alongside 8% simple interest per year to compensate it for 
the time its been out of pocket.
Ive also got questions about whether NatWest shouldve done more than simply 
message Mr A, given it had concerns about the payment. Afterall, its difficult to see 
whether the message does much more to reassure NatWest than the message with 
the code. But given Im minded to uphold this complaint under the PSRs, Ive not explored this further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold Ws complaint and tell National 
Westminster Bank Plc to:
Pay W the total of the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or refunded 
 I understand this to be £12,110.82.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the dates of the unauthorised 
payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman