DRN-3830304
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs O complain that a cheque was paid out of their account with Santander UK 
Plc (Santander), even though it was more than six months old.
What happened
This complaint is brought by both Mr O and Mrs O but, for ease of reading here, Ill refer to 
the submissions as having been made by Mrs O only.
In July 2021, Mrs O wrote out a cheque for £500 in favour of two people. They asked her to 
send them the money by bank transfer instead as they didnt hold an account in their joint 
names. They told her they would destroy the cheque. Mrs O made the bank transfer. 
But, in February 2022, the cheque was cashed. Mrs O called Santander as soon as she 
noticed the funds had debited her account. She asked how the cheque could have been paid 
as it was more than six months old and there wasnt an account in the names of both 
payees. She says that Santanders agent agreed the cheque was out of date and arranged 
to send a copy of it to Mrs O so that she could take it to her local branch. 
Mrs O says that, when she visited the branch, the assistant also agreed that the cheque was 
out of date. She says the assistant told her he would find out what account it had been paid 
into and send the information to her in the post. Mrs O received a further copy of the cheque 
in the post but nothing else, so she went into the branch again.  She says she was told to 
call the cheque dispute department.
Mrs O says she had difficulty getting through to that department on the phone, having to wait 
for long periods of time and being cut off more than once. She went back into the branch, but 
the staff said there was nothing they could do there. Later on, Mrs O received a call from 
Santander explaining that there is no time limit on a cheque. She was advised to contact the 
payee or speak to a solicitor as there was nothing more that Santander could do.
Mrs O wasnt happy with Santanders response and brought the complaint to this service. 
She explained that the situation has been very distressing and says she cant contact the 
person who cashed the cheque. She says the recipient has had the money from her twice, 
by bank transfer and now by cheque as well. She says that Santander should be able to find 
out where the cheque was paid in. She wants to know why it was accepted, given its age 
and the fact that it was payable to joint payees. She would like Santander to refund the £500 
to her account.
Santander says it has no way of knowing where the cheque was paid in. It also says that it 
was Mrs Os responsibility to ensure the cheque was destroyed if she no longer wanted it to 
be paid.
Our Adjudicator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong here. But Mrs O was 
disappointed with the outcome and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs O further, but Im afraid Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Cheques dont expire after six months as they remain legally valid for six years. If a cheque 
is presented more than six months after it was written and dated, its for the bank or building 
society to decide whether or not to accept it. If theres a significant delay before its cashed, 
a bank or building society may reject it to protect their customer from having funds withdrawn 
much later than theyd anticipated.
The collecting bank (where the cheque was paid in) accepted the cheque in this case. Ive 
thought about whether Santander should have paid it and I think it was reasonable for it to 
do so. It was a valid cheque and the date it was paid in was only just over six months from 
the date on the cheque. 
I understand that Mrs O was told by branch staff that the cheque was out of date. That 
information wasnt quite correct, as Ive outlined above. But Im satisfied that Santander gave 
Mrs O the correct information once she was in touch with the cheque department. I dont 
think the comments from the branch staff had any impact on what happened to the funds, as 
the cheque had already been paid at that point and couldnt be stopped.
Mrs O says the cheque shouldnt have been accepted as it was payable to joint payees and 
there isnt an account in those joint names. I dont know what name was on the account 
which the cheque was paid into. I think possibly it shouldnt have been accepted by the 
collecting bank as it seems likely there was a mismatch between the account name and the 
payees on the cheque. But Im afraid that isnt something I can decide here as its an issue 
which would need to be taken up with the collecting bank, not Santander. 
I havent been able to identify any stamps or endorsements on the cheque which help to 
identify where it was paid in. Santander has said it has no way of knowing which bank 
collected the funds. I understand thats very frustrating for Mrs O, so Ive asked Santander 
about it further. Santander has confirmed that unfortunately it cant trace which bank the 
funds were paid to and doesnt have any record of this. So Im afraid I dont think theres any 
more it can do here. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs O and the situation she finds herself in. I understand 
that she doesnt feel she can approach the person who likely cashed the cheque. And, 
without knowing which bank collected it, she cant pursue a complaint against that business. 
But Im only looking at the actions of Santander here and, as Ive explained, I dont think it 
did anything wrong. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman