DRN-2893975
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited declined his critical 
illness insurance claim after he was diagnosed with dementia. 
Mr A is being represented by his son in law, Mr F, but for ease Ill refer to Mr A throughout 
the decision. 
What happened
In 2004 Mr A took out a life and critical illness policy. Sadly, in 2020 Mr A was diagnosed 
with dementia so he contacted Royal London to make a claim under his policy. 
Royal London reviewed the claim but decided to decline it. Royal London recognised that 
Mr As condition was progressive, but at this time there was no evidence it had deteriorated 
to the extent Mr A needed continual supervision and the assistance of another person. So, it 
couldnt accept the claim. 
Mr A was unhappy with Royal Londons decision, so he made a complaint to this service. He 
said the definition of dementia in his policy is outdated and Royal London hasnt offered him 
the opportunity to update any of his definitions since 2004.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he wasnt satisfied Mr A 
met the definition of dementia in the policy because he didnt need continual supervision and 
assistance. And he didnt think Royal Londons definition of dementia in this policy was 
outdated or too narrow. 
Mr A disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said a previous complaint 
this service had considered was upheld due to the policy definition of a particular critical 
illness being too narrow. He said that Royal London should consider the seriousness of his 
condition due to it being life limiting and degenerative. He added that some insurers have 
changed their definitions of dementia since 2004 and removed the continual supervision part 
of the definition. Mr A says this shows that Royal London shouldve updated or renewed his 
policy, so it was clear, fair and not misleading in line with the guidelines set out by the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI). And its failure to do so, meant he wasnt being treated 
fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator. I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Mr A and Id like to assure him I havent made this decision lightly. In 
doing so, Ive looked at and considered all the evidence he and Royal London have provided 
to us  and Id like to assure him that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I 
havent considered it, instead Ive focused on whats important to the outcome.
I would also like to make it clear that each complaint is decided by our service on its own 
facts and merits and Im not bound by what our service might have found in other cases, 
whether similar to this one or not. 
I should explain that in considering this complaint its not for me to reach a medical opinion 
on whether Mr A met the above definitions. Instead, I have to consider whether 
Royal London assessed the claim fairly and reasonably in light of the medical evidence and 
opinions it was presented with. Having carefully considered all the available evidence, Im 
satisfied that it did.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say that for a claim to be accepted Mr As 
dementia has to progress to the extent he needs continual supervision and the assistance of 
another person. 
Ive reviewed the medical evidence that was available to Royal London when Mr A made his 
claim. Having done so, Im satisfied Royal London fairly declined it based upon the definition 
of dementia in his policy. The medical evidence doesnt suggest Mr A currently needs 
continual supervision and the assistance of another person, so I cant fairly ask 
Royal London to accept the claim. 
Mr A says his dementia definition is too narrow and doesnt meet the industry guidelines set 
out by the ABI. And Royal London shouldve reviewed and updated his policy. But I dont 
agree that Royal London had to make changes to this policy. Mr A took out term assurance, 
meaning the terms and conditions were agreed at the outset and remained in place to the 
end of the policy term. This is common practice and I dont consider it to be unreasonable. 
Its standard industry practice for insurers to define which critical illnesses, such as 
dementia, they are willing to provide cover for, and set the premiums for this policy based 
upon the risks they are willing to insure at the point of sale.
Mr A has mentioned the ABI guidelines and that he thinks he hasnt been treated fairly. In 
the ABI guidelines for minimum standards, it says insurers should ensure they treat 
customers fairly and that their products are clear, fair and not misleading. Ive reviewed 
these carefully. But Im not satisfied Mr A has been treated unfairly here. And I dont believe 
his policy is unclear or misleading. Nor do I think the policy definition is too narrow. 
I agree the ABI guidelines do set a minimum standard that should be adhered to, but they 
also say they apply to new policies. In the ABI statement of best practice, which came into 
effect from May 2003 and so was in place when Mr A applied for the policy, there was no 
detailed example given for dementia. And as long as Royal London applies the dementia 
definition consistently to all customers with a similar policy to Mr A, then I dont consider it to 
be treating him unfairly. 
So, Im satisfied this policy has clearly set out what is and isnt covered and as a result, Mr A 
wasnt treated unfairly when the claim was declined. 
I know my decision leaves Mr A in a difficult position following his diagnosis and his current 
state of health. Im sorry to disappoint him, but overall, Im not satisfied Royal London has 
made a mistake or treated him unfairly here. So, Im not going to ask it to take any further 
action. 
Mr A can make a further claim to Royal London, whilst his policy is still active, if he has 
further medical evidence which shows he meets the policy definition.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman