DRN-1212462
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a Tech and Travel pack in 
January 2017. Mr C says he did not agree to these packs and was not notified that his 
Additions Active account was going to be changed to these two packs.
He is also unhappy with the way that Barclays dealt with his complaint.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this already and he did not believe that Barclays acted 
incorrectly when these packs were added to Mr Cs account. Mr C did not agree with this 
and therefore this complaint was referred to me to issue a decision. This decision only 
relates to the packs added to Mr Cs account in 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should highlight that these packs were not sold to Mr C. What actually happened 
was that Mr C had held an Additions Active packaged account for a number of years. And in 
2017, Barclays decided to change the products it offered and withdrew the Additions Active 
account. So account holders could continue to benefit from the insurance products, it 
replaced it with various packs. It has referred to this change as a migration.
Barclays is entitled to change the types of accounts it offers its customers and to withdraw 
certain accounts. However, when taking these actions Barclays needs to notify its customers 
and explain the changes clearly. 
Barclays has provided copies of two letters it sent to Mr C  one before it migrated his 
account, and one to confirm it had been migrated. I note that the letters are personally 
addressed to Mr C at his current address. The first letter, sent in September 2016, gave Mr 
C information about the upcoming changes that would be happening on his account. The 
second page of the letter gave several options, including opting out of the migration and 
choosing a fee-free account instead. It gave Mr C the option of calling to make this change, 
or visiting a Barclays branch to do so. The second letter was sent in January 2017. It 
confirmed that Mr Cs account had been changed. And again on the second page it 
highlighted that Mr C could remove these packs if he wished to do so.
So I think that Barclays did enough to highlight that Mr Cs account was changing from an 
Additions Active account to a fee-free current account, with a Tech and Travel pack added. 
And that it highlighted to Mr C that he could opt out of having these packs if he wished to do 
so.
 
I cant see that Mr C contacted Barclays to either opt out of the change, or query it. So I cant 
say that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the changes that happened on the 
account or that it needs to refund the fees Mr C paid for either packs since they were added 
to his account.
I note that Mr C said that he requested that all documentation be sent via e-mail or mobile 
phone. However, its my understanding that all documentation issued to a consumer is also 
available on the mobile app, so I think that he still couldve accessed these letters 
electronically as well.
Mr C has also mentioned that Barclays were unable to sign him up to the two packs without 
his written consent. But as explained above this was not a new sale it was Barclays 
essentially transferring insurance products, that Mr C had already agreed to, from a single 
packaged account to multiple packs - which gave account holders the added flexibility of 
being able to pick and choose which ones to carry on with. And as Ive established above, 
Im satisfied that Barclays gave Mr C sufficient notice of the changes that took place on his 
account. So I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to this.
Finally, I note that Mr C is unhappy with Barclays complaint handling. The rules which apply 
to all complaints referred to us are called the Dispute Resolution rules and rule 2.3 (found at 
the website: fshandbook.info/FS/html/handbook/DISP/2/3) sets out which activities fall within 
our remit. I have looked at these activities and complaint handling is not one that is listed 
and therefore it is not something this service can look at. 
I understand that Mr C will be frustrated by this as he clearly feels very strongly about his 
complaint and that his complaint was not handled well by Barclays. However, for the reasons 
above I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the migration to the packs 
and I cant look into its handling of his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman