DRN-2685798
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, lent to him irresponsibly by providing, 
and increasing the credit limit on, a credit card.
  
What happened
Mr H applied for a credit card with NewDay in December 2013. NewDay agreed to provide 
this. The initial credit limit was £250.
In April 2014 NewDay increased Mr Hs credit limit to £600. And in July 2014, it increased 
the limit to £1,500.
The amount outstanding on the account was cleared in August 2015 and the account was 
closed.
In May 2020 Mr H complained to NewDay that it had acted irresponsibly when lending and 
increasing his credit limit. He said, at the time of the lending, hed had several short-term 
loans as well as a debt management plan for existing outstanding debt. He also explained 
hed had a gambling problem  although Mr H has acknowledged he hadnt made NewDay 
aware of this previously.
NewDay didnt think that the decision to provide the card or increase the credit limit in April 
2014 were wrong. It said that these were done in line with its lending criteria based on an 
assessment of the information available at the time. It did however say that, upon review, it 
felt it shouldnt have offered the limit increase in July 2014. To put things right it offered to 
refund charges and interest incurred as a result of that limit increase.
Mr H did not accept NewDays offer and asked our service to consider the complaint.
One of our investigators looked into things. She thought that the complaint should be upheld. 
She felt that the checks carried out by NewDay when it took all three lending decisions 
hadnt gone far enough. And if Newday had done more detailed checks, she was satisfied 
that it wouldnt have lent. As a result, she recommended that NewDay refund all interest and 
charges applied to the account  to make it so that Mr H had only repaid what hed 
borrowed, with no additional costs.
NewDay did not agree with the investigators findings. It said it remained of the opinion that 
the information available at the time supported its lending decisions in December 2013 and 
April 2014.
As NewDay did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend a business needs to ensure it does so in a responsible manner. 
There isnt a set requirement of what a business must do in every instance. But they are 
expected generally to carry out appropriate and proportionate borrower focused checks 
around the affordability of any lending, before providing it, and to ensure a borrower can 
afford to make and sustain the repayments, taking account of their financial situation.
NewDay says that when agreeing to provide the card in December 2013 it considered the 
information Mr H provided as part of his application and information from credit reference 
agencies. And based on this, it said the application met its lending criteria. Im not 
commenting on NewDays lending criteria  as that is a matter for its commercial judgement. 
And I think the information it reviewed does seem to be largely in relation to Mr Hs own 
specific circumstances. But based on what Ive seen I dont think I can reasonably say the 
checks it carried out prior to lending were sufficient.
The application information, which NewDay has provided a copy of, includes information it 
recorded about Mr Hs annual salary. It has also recorded information about outstanding 
balances on short term loans as well as total unsecured debt. The figure that is recorded as 
Mr Hs annual salary is less than the total he apparently owed at the time on short term 
lending alone. And it is roughly one third of the total unsecured debt figure NewDay has 
recorded. I think, based on this information, NewDay shouldve done additional checks 
before agreeing to lend as this makes it seem that Mr H was already significantly over 
extended.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs current account statements. And these show that the figure 
NewDay has recorded as Mr Hs annual income is incorrect  he was earning more than 
NewDay had listed. So, if NewDay had done additional checks, it wouldve found this out. 
But I think, in doing this additional, and in my view appropriate, additional checking, NewDay 
would also have found that the other information it had recorded, and apparently relied on, 
was incorrect. 
For example, the total unsecured debt figure it has recorded when approving the application, 
so assessing the affordability of repayments, was £6,600. But, having reviewed Mr Hs credit 
file I can see he had one personal loan, taken out in August 2013, on which he owed almost 
£22,000 at the time he took the NewDay card  almost four times the total indebtedness 
figure NewDay used. And that was only one account, not including the other outstanding 
amount Mr H owed to other creditors, including numerous short-term lenders. NewDay has 
also said that its records show that a search of credit reference information it carried out at 
the time showed Mr H had no debt management programs in place. But Mr H has provided 
evidence which indicates he was in a debt management plan and was making regular 
contributions towards this from his current account. And looking at Mr Hs current account 
statements, it appears that, although his income was higher than the figure NewDay 
recorded, he didnt have a great deal of disposable income available  and was relying on 
short term lending quite significantly. All of which I think indicates that Mr H was already 
stretched financially.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think NewDay did sufficient checks when agreeing 
to provide Mr H the credit card and if it had, I think it is unlikely it would have lent. So, I dont 
think this lending decision was responsible.
NewDay increased Mr Hs credit limit from £250 to £600 in April 2014 and from £600 to 
£1,500 in July 2014. In the context of the lending I think both credit limit increases were 
significant as they both doubled the potential borrowing.Looking at the increase to the credit limit in April 2014, NewDay has said that it again relied 
on the salary information from the initial application and information from credit reference 
agencies as well as the conduct of Mr Hs NewDay account when granting this increase. And 
based on that it felt the lending increase was appropriate.
Looking at how the credit card account with NewDay had been run, I agree that between the 
account opening and this first limit increase, it appears to have been run relatively well. It 
had remained within its credit limit and payments had not been made late. Although the 
maximum available credit was largely utilised.
But I think the issue is again with the other information used. The same significant questions 
marks over the salary and general affordability information from the original application 
remained  specifically that what NewDay understood Mr H was earning in a year was less 
than his short-term lending alone and roughly a third of his total indebtedness. Again I think 
this shouldve prompted further checks around affordability. And if these had been done, 
looking at Mr Hs credit file, it wouldve seen that his overall position hadnt largely improved 
from when the credit card was initially taken  in fact hed taken on more borrowing, 
including further short-term lending. 
NewDay has said it gave Mr H the opportunity to opt out of the credit limit increase. But 
giving this option doesnt excuse or allow a business to lend in an unaffordable way.
So again, based on what Ive seen, I dont think the checks NewDay did before granting 
Mr H the credit limit increase in April 2014 were sufficient. And if it had done more, I think, 
the available information wouldve meant that it would not have lent. So again, I dont think I 
can reasonably say it acted responsibly.
NewDay has already acknowledged that it doesnt think it shouldve provided the second 
credit limit increase in July 2014. So, I dont intend to review this further other than to say, 
based on what Ive seen, including how the account was operated in the months prior to this 
increase, that I agree it shouldnt have been granted.
So, as I think NewDay has made errors here, Ive thought about what it should do to put all 
of this right.
The card was paid off and closed in 2015. Mr H has had the use of the credit while he held 
the card. So, I dont think itd be reasonable to say that the principal amount borrowed in 
using the card should be refunded. 
But, as I dont think any of the lending decisions were responsible, I do think the costs 
incurred associated with the borrowing  all interest and charges applied to the account - 
should be refunded, as they would never have been incurred by Mr H, had the lending not 
been incorrectly provided to him in the first place. 
And as these are amounts that Mr H repaid to NewDay throughout the period for which the 
account was open, he has been without this money and been unable to use it since that 
time. So, I also think itd be reasonable for NewDay to pay interest at a rate of 8% on the 
amounts to be refunded from the point Mr H initially repaid them, until the settlement is paid. 
In terms of the information recorded on Mr Hs credit file about this account, I dont think it is 
unreasonable that the existence of the account be noted. But I dont think any adverse 
information should be recorded. NewDay has provided evidence to show that there is no 
adverse information recorded in respect of this account. And it has confirmed that all 
information relating to the account will stop being reported from August 2021. I think that is 
reasonable, so I dont think it needs to take any further action in respect of Mr Hs credit file.My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
To put things right NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, should;
Refund all interest, charges or fees applied to Mr Hs credit card account, for the 
duration of the credit agreement.
Pay 8% interest* on these amounts from the point Mr H initially repaid them until the 
date of settlement. 
NewDay should send a copy of the calculation of the above amounts to Mr H for reference.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to above. NewDay must give Mr H a certificate showing how much 
tax it has deducted if he asks them for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman