DRN-4418756
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd rejected his claim for compensation under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to a car he says was mis-sold to him.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr S bought a used car, which had been registered in 2018 and had had 
one previous owner. He used his NewDay credit card to pay £100 towards it (and paid the 
balance using other payment methods). At the time, he asked the dealership in an email 
Was it previously used as a Lease car, hire car company car or a taxi? The dealership told 
him the answer was no. But then in the following September, the dealership told Mr S that 
the car actually was previously a  Contract Hire vehicle, which  is a form of lease. Mr S 
then complained that the vehicle had been misrepresented to him, as he would not have 
bought it if he had known it was ex-lease, because he had previously found such cars to be 
unreliable and to have mechanical faults. He said the dealership had intentionally deceived 
him. He also said there had been a breach of contract because the car had not been as 
described. And he also complained about a smell of smoke coming from the air vents, and a 
rattling sound.
In a series of emails back and forth between Mr S and the dealership, the dealership insisted 
that there had been no mis-sale, and that Mr S was only arguing about semantics. The 
dealership said that its use of the term lease only referred to how the previous owner had 
funded his ownership of the vehicle, not how the car had been used  it had not been a 
rental car with many different drivers, if that was what Mr S had been concerned about. The 
dealership offered Mr S a modest gesture of good will. But Mrs S did not accept that 
explanation, and he objected to the dealership introducing the word rental into 
correspondence when he had never asked about whether the car had ever been a rental 
car. He said this was nothing to do with what he had meant when he had asked if the car 
had ever been leased, and he argued that this was further evidence of the dealerships 
dishonesty. In October 2022 Mr S asked NewDay to refund him the entire purchase price of 
the car (over £19,000) under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
NewDay did not agree that the car had been mis-sold, nor that there had been a breach of 
contract. Mr S then brought this complaint to our service about NewDays decision. But our 
investigator decided that NewDay had done nothing wrong, as it had been correct to find that 
there had been no misrepresentation and no breach of contract. She added that the burning 
smell and the rattling noise had been repaired and had not returned.
Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the dealerships use of the word rental was done in bad faith. I think that they 
were just trying to make sure that they and Mr S were not talking at cross-purposes, so they 
clarified that when they had told him that the car had previously been leased, they were only 
discussing the financial arrangement used by the previous owner, rather than the purpose 
the vehicle had been used for.
The real issue in this case is how the car was used before Mr S acquired it. That was 
important to him because of his previous experience with cars that had proved to have 
issues. So I can understand why he has been tenacious in his pursuit of an answer. 
However, there is no evidence that the car was previously used in the manner he fears  
other than one possible interpretation of what the dealership told him in a phone call, which 
is not the only way in which that remark could have been meant. In light of the subsequent 
clarification, which I accept, I do not think the dealership meant what Mr S has argued it 
meant.
The rattling noise and the burning smell have now been fixed. So I am satisfied that the car 
was of satisfactory quality and was not misdescribed or misrepresented, and that the bank 
was entitled to reject Mr Ss claim under section 75.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023. But apart from that, this final decision brings 
our involvement in this matter to an end.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman