DRN-2130630
The complaint
Mr L complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited placed on his car under his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ls car was involved in an accident and it was deemed to be beyond economical repair. 
esures engineer made Mr L an offer in settlement of the total loss of his car. When Mr L was 
unhappy with this, he increased his offer. Mr L remained unhappy and esure made him a 
final offer of £4,932. Mr L remained unhappy with this, the way the valuation was made, the 
process esure used to agree the settlement, and the level of service provided by esures 
engineer. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esures 
valuation was fair and reasonable. She thought esure had reasonably increased its offer to 
resolve Mr Ls complaint. She didnt see evidence that it had coerced Mr L into accepting its 
offer. She thought esures engineer was professional and knowledgeable. 
Mr L replied that he thought esure had short-changed him by £100. Mr L asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr L would want a fair settlement for his claim for the loss of his car. 
He said he couldnt replace his car for esures offer. But I can see that his policy provides for 
the cars market value in the case of total loss. And I think this is clearly defined in the policy.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Mr L did his own market research into what a replacement car would cost. But 
we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices 
and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide 
evidence of likely retail selling prices. I can understand that Mr L disagrees with our 
approach, but we use this to be fair to consumers and businesses alike. 
Our investigator thought esures final settlement offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive 
looked to see how she came to this conclusion. I can see that she looked for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ls in the guides we use. 
Of the three valuations she found, she rejected one as being out of line with the others. I 
think that was correctly done according to our approach. She thought the average of the two 
other guides valuations was within the range of esures offer, without any deduction for pre-
existing damage. I think that was also the correct conclusion in keeping with our approach. I 
can see that Mr L thinks esures offer should be increased by a further £100. But I think this 
difference isnt significant in proportion to the total valuation. 
Mr L also provided evidence of work hed had done to his car. But we consider this to be 
maintenance and I dont think this would lead to an increase in the cars valuation. 
So I agree that esures settlement offer for the total loss of Mr Ls car is fair and reasonable 
and I dont require it to increase this. 
I can see that Mr L found the process esure used to arrive at its final valuation offer to be 
disagreeable. But I think esure was reasonably looking for a way to resolve his 
dissatisfaction and then his complaint. I dont think its unusual or unfair for insurers to review 
their offers if consumers arent satisfied with them.
Mr L said he felt coerced into accepting esures offer. He said he was sent an email with a 
tick box to agree to accept its offer, with other options not immediately apparent. Ive looked 
at how the valuation was presented to Mr L. And I agree with the investigator that esure 
presented options for him to choose to either accept or reject its offer. I cant see that Mr L 
was coerced into accepting esures offer. 
Mr L was also unhappy with the level of service provided by esures engineer. Ive listened to 
the relevant calls. I can understand that Mr L would feel at a disadvantage. But I didnt find 
the engineer to be unprofessional or discourteous. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman