DRN-3655797
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited trading as 
Abacus Associates Financial Services (Tavistock) to transfer the benefits from his defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He 
thinks the advice may have been unsuitable as it has already caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the employers DB scheme (the BSPS) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (the BSPS2). Alternatively, members were 
informed they could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr D chose to join the BSPS2 to protect his position but as he wasnt sure what was best for 
him, he got in touch with a representative of Tavistock. Tavistock gathered information about 
Mr Ds circumstances and objectives. It recorded that Mr D was 44, married with three 
children (one dependent). That Mr D and his wife ran their own company, with Mr D having 
left British Steel in 2013. They also owned their own home, which was subject to an interest-
only mortgage of £89,000 ending in 2028. It recorded that Mr and Mrs Ds monthly income 
exceeded their expenditure and Mr D had personal savings of around £5,000, but also kept 
a balance of £10,000 in the company business account.
Tavistock noted Mr and Mrs D hoped to retire at age 55 but that Mr D realised this would be 
difficult and he would need to make further provisions for his retirement. So, he agreed that 
retiring at his state pension age should be his target for now. It noted Mr and Mrs D intended 
to repay their mortgage by age 55 and had been making overpayments on an ad-hoc basis, 
which they would continue to do. Tavistock recorded that Mr D wanted the improved death 
benefits a transfer offered because he didnt want his DB scheme pension to cease on 
Mrs Ds death. He thought transferring could provide a legacy for his children.
Tavistock completed an attitude to risk assessment with Mr D and noted he had a 
cautious/moderate attitude to risk.
In February 2018 Tavistock produced a suitability report setting out its analysis and 
recommendations. It advised Mr D to transfer his BSPS benefits to a SIPP and invest his 
funds via a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM), who would actively manage the invested 
funds on Mr Ds behalf. Mr D accepted this advice and £336,251.73 was transferred from the 
BSPS to a SIPP.
In 2022 Mr D complained to Tavistock about the advice he received, believing it may have 
been unsuitable for him. He said since the transfer his funds had performed poorly and he 
was worried about the long-term impact on his retirement.
Tavistock maintained the advice was suitable as transferring would give Mr D flexibility of 
income and would provide death benefits that would be available to Mrs D and their children. 
And the adviser recalled Mr D was very unhappy with the way his former employer had 
changed the pension so he wanted to transfer out of it. He said Mr D was also keen to 
secure the enhanced cash equivalent transfer value (CETV'). Tavistock said it had a 
responsibility to take the emotion out of the situation and ultimately made a recommendation 
that was in Mr Ds best interests. It also made sure Mr D was aware of the risks of 
transferring. Unhappy with Tavistocks response, Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. She said the 
advice to transfer, based on the income Tavistock thought Mr D might need from age 67, 
was difficult to justify when Mr D was so far away from his expected retirement. She noted 
that Tavistock had concluded Mr D would need to make further retirement provisions, 
whether he remained in the scheme or transferred out. So, she thought that him remaining in 
the DB scheme until his retirement needs were known was in his best interests. The 
Investigator didnt think taking advantage of an enhanced CETV, or the potential for higher 
lump sum death benefits was a good enough reason to transfer. She also didnt think 
Tavistock had done enough to allay Mr Ds concerns over his employers influence on the 
pension. The Investigator recommended Mr D should be compensated based on him having 
opted to join the BSPS2 and that Tavistock should pay him £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice.
Tavistock didnt agree  it said the regulator had warned against basing advice on the 
growth rates required to match the DB scheme benefits (the critical yield), and the 
Investigator had placed too much emphasis on this. It had carried out cash flow analysis 
showing Mr D would have a sustainable fund in retirement, whilst also meeting his objectives 
of flexibility and improved death benefits. Tavistock said it also thought Mr D wouldve 
transferred his pension regardless. It questioned whether Mr D had taken any steps to fix his 
income, for example by taking an annuity and if not, this suggested he was happy with his 
existing arrangements, including the flexibility it gave him. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tavistocks actions here.PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave. I've summarised my 
findings below.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable and that a transfer should only be considered suitable if the 
advising firm can clearly demonstrate it is in the consumers best interests. Im also mindful 
that under COBS 9.2.1R Tavistock needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation to Mr D was suitable for him. And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied Tavistock took reasonable steps to ensure the advice to transfer 
was suitable for Mr D or that it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
At best, I think Mr D couldve hoped to match the benefits he was entitled to through the 
BSPS2 at age 65 by transferring. But I think it was more likely that Mr D would receive 
pension benefits of a lower overall value in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme 
to a SIPP. I say this because:
Tavistock carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the 
regulator, showing how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). The TVAS 
showed that the critical yield at age 65 was 5.43% if Mr D took a full pension; if he took 
tax-free cash (TFC) and a reduced annual pension it was 4.60%. The PPF critical 
yields were lower but as Mr D had already joined the BSPS2 and the scheme was 
almost certain to go ahead by the time the advice was delivered, Tavistock determined 
these were not as relevant.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where 
a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 
similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. 
Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given.
The discount rate was 4.5% for 20 years to retirement at age 65. But Tavistock 
assessed Mr Ds attitude to risk as cautious/moderate  which I take to mean 
low/medium. So, I think Mr D couldve expected growth between the regulators lower 
and middle projection rates of 2% and 5%, and I note Tavistock based its cashflow 
modelling on annual growth of 3.5%. As the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and the growth Mr D could likely achieve given his low/medium attitude 
to risk, I think Mr D was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value at retirement.
I recognise its possible Mr D couldve matched the TFC and reduced pension he was 
entitled to through the BSPS2 at age 65. But there would be little point in Mr D giving 
up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the 
same level of benefits outside the scheme. Apart from his state pension, this 
represented Mr Ds only other retirement provision, so I dont think he had the capacity 
to risk his pension funds in this way in any event.
Tavistock says it carried out cash flow modelling showing that Mr Ds funds would last 
him until age 90 if he transferred to a SIPP, even if it assumed modest growth of 3.5%. 
But significantly Tavistock recognised that whether Mr D transferred out of the BSPS 
or remained in it, he would need to build up further pension funds to support his 
retirement in later life. Its evident whatever other pension arrangements Mr D made, 
this would be on a defined-contribution basis. So, I think these were strong grounds for 
recommending that Mr D remained in his DB scheme, because he would still need to 
build up extra pension funds and those funds would be subject to investment risk. 
Overall, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests to transfer out of the BSPS as he was 
likely to receive lower overall benefits at retirement. I also dont think Mr D needed to risk his 
guaranteed pension in this way, given this represented his main pension provision and he 
had a low capacity for loss. So for this reason alone, I dont think Tavistock has shown that it 
was clearly in Mr Ds best interests to transfer out of the BSPS.
However, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. Other 
objectives might mean a transfer is suitable overall, as Tavistock argues here, so Ive 
carefully considered these.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr D needed to transfer out of the BSPS in order to have flexibility in retirement. 
And I think he couldve most likely met his income needs in retirement if he joined the 
BSPS2. This is because:
Mr D was interested in retiring early but after discussions with Tavistock, recognised it 
wasnt likely to be affordable, though he would keep an eye on things as he got older. 
So, at the time of the advice, the aim was to retire comfortably at age 67. Tavistock 
says Mr D needed £3,000 per month in retirement, but in reality it was too early to say 
with any certainty what Mr D would need. And based on the income and expenditure 
analysis this appeared to be an overestimate, given Mr and Mrs Ds children would no 
longer be dependent on them and their mortgage would be repaid.
At age 65 Mr D could take around £85,000 in TFC and a reduced pension of around 
£13,000. By this time Mrs D would be in receipt of her state pension of around £8,000 
per year and a small DB pension of her own worth around £1,000 per year (although 
this isnt likely accurate given Mrs D had around 12 years service). And Mr D would 
also be entitled to a state pension of around £8,000 per year. So, together from Mr Ds 
age 67, theyd have guaranteed income of at least £30,000 per year or around £2,300 
net per month (taking account of their personal allowances). Mr D wouldve also had a 
significant tax-free sum to supplement whatever additional income they needed. So, 
I think being able to draw on the TFC as and when needed gave them sufficient 
flexibility of income.Furthermore, as is clear from the advice, Mr D agreed he needed to build up further 
pension provisions between then and his expected retirement, so that he would have 
additional security in his later years. So, I think Mr D couldve had additional funds to 
draw on, which would give him extra flexibility if he needed it. 
Mr D was at least 10 years away from being able to access his pension, and 20 years 
from when he actually expected to retire. So, although having extra flexibility was likely 
appealing, it wasnt necessary at the time of the advice. And in any event, I dont think 
that was a decision he needed to make at this time  by joining the BSPS2, he 
retained the option to transfer out of the scheme closer to his retirement age if his 
circumstances required it. That a future CETV couldve been lower should not have 
had an impact on what was suitable for his circumstances at the time of the advice.
Tavistock says if Mr D hasnt yet purchased an annuity, it suggests hes happy with his 
SIPP and the flexibility it provides. But ultimately Mr D has a SIPP because of the 
advice Tavistock gave him; how he manages this going forwards is not relevant to the 
suitability of the advice Tavistock gave him in 2018.
Overall, I think that Mr D had more chance of meeting his income needs in retirement 
through the BSPS2 and using his TFC entitlement. And this provided him with a higher 
amount of guaranteed income for life, thereby decreasing his overall risk in retirement. So, 
I dont think it was suitable or in Mr Ds best interests for Tavistock to advise him to transfer 
his DB pension, exposing him to the risks of the financial markets, just to have extra 
flexibility that he didnt need. 
Death benefits
I dont think Mr D shouldve been encouraged to give up his guaranteed pension in order to 
provide extra death benefits that couldve been achieved in other ways without risking his 
own security in retirement. I say this because:
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course most people would like their loved 
ones to be taken care of when they die. And Im sure that the idea of leaving a large 
sum to his family in the event of his death sounded attractive to Mr D, as it would to 
most people. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, 
Tavistocks role was to advise Mr D on what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme already offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that 
couldve been valuable to his wife in the event of his death. Under the BSPS2, this 
would be based on the pension available to Mr D before he took TFC, it was 
guaranteed and it escalated each year.
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, 
but the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. 
As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced 
by any income Mr D drew in his lifetime. And the cash flow model showed the fund 
would be depleted by age 90 if Mr D transferred his benefits to a SIPP and took total 
income of £3,000 per month from age 67. So, it might not have provided the legacy 
that Mr D thought it would. 
Tavistock identified that Mr D had a need for life assurance because it noted Mrs Ds 
income before or after retirement largely depended on Mr D. So, it provided some 
whole of life assurance quotes based on a sum assured of £336,250. Tavistock noted 
this was affordable now, but could become unaffordable in the future. But I dont think 
that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr D. Ultimately, Mr D wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family, which would be a lot less than 
this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting point 
ought to have been to ask Mr D how much he would like to leave to his family, and this 
couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to 
be a lot cheaper to provide. And I think Tavistock ought to have formally recommended 
this as a solution if Mr D genuinely wanted additional protection for his family.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And ultimately Tavistock should not have 
encouraged Mr D to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his own security in retirement.
Control and concerns over the financial stability of the DB scheme
Tavistock ought to have addressed Mr Ds concerns about his former employers influence 
over the DB scheme. Had it done so, I think Mr D wouldve most likely been assured by this.
Mr D may have legitimately held concerns about how his former employer had handled 
his pension in the past and was inclined to transfer for this reason. But it was 
Tavistocks role to objectively address those concerns. As Tavistock said in its final 
response letter, it had to take the emotion out of the situation. But it seems to me that it 
did the opposite; as it said in the suitability report, it considered a transfer met Mr Ds 
emotional requirements at the time.
I think Tavistock ought to have emphasised that the BSPS2 was well-funded and if 
there were future issues, it would still be covered by the PPF. So, even if Mr D might 
have perceived there to be risk attached to the BSPS2, I think Tavistock ought to have 
emphasised that he would be taking on greater risk by exposing his pension funds to 
the volatilities of the investment markets. Furthermore, it ought to have reassured Mr D 
that the BSPS2 trustees were in place to act in the best interests of all members, and 
as such, his former employer couldnt simply make changes to it without consultation.
I also think Mr Ds desire for control over his pension was overstated. I cant see that 
he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his 
own. And the recommendation was given on the basis hed receive, and pay for, 
support with his pension by way of ongoing advice and using the service of a DFM. So, 
I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr D, it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
I dont think that Mr Ds concerns about his former employer shouldve led to Tavistock 
recommending Mr D transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. And Im mindful hed already 
chosen to join the BSPS2 in the interim, so I think that demonstrates he was prepared to 
stay in the DB scheme if Tavistock considered that to be suitable for him.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ds best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr D wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr D received from Tavistock 
was unsuitable for him. As such, Tavistock should calculate redress owed to him on the 
basis that hed joined the BSPS2.
Mr D says that transferring his pension has already caused him a financial loss, following 
world events over the last few years that affected the value of his pension fund. And this has 
caused him a lot of worry. Its evident that the redress calculation Im asking Tavistock to 
undertake will compensate Mr D for any financial loss hes experienced as a result of transferring his pension. But I also think that Tavistock should pay Mr D £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience the matter has caused him. I think Mr Ds concern over the loss to his 
pension fund, and how this could affect his future retirement, is completely understandable. 
And ultimately if he hadnt been advised by Tavistock to transfer his pension, he wouldnt 
have been impacted by the events that caused his pension fund to drop. So, I think that it is 
fair for Tavistock to pay Mr D £300 to recognise the personal impact of its unsuitable advice.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Tavistock to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would most 
likely have joined the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Tavistock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tavistock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation, together with supporting evidence of what Tavistock based the inputs into 
the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tavistock should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts Tavistocks offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the calculation, 
even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tavistock may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr D 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Pay Mr D £300 for the distress and inconvenience the unsuitable advice caused him.
 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Tavistock Partners 
(UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services to pay Mr D the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services pays Mr D 
the balance. 
If Mr D accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Tavistock Partners 
(UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services should 
provide details of its calculations to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman