DRN-3116232
The complaint
E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc restricted its business bank account without 
sufficient prior warning which affected its ability to pay its staff and suppliers.  
Mr H, Es director, brings this complaint on Es behalf along with his representative, Miss H.
What happened
NatWest wrote to E on 12 September 2019 as its account was due to have a Business 
Profile review and they required some information to enable them to complete the review. In 
the letter, E was told it would need to register for access to NatWests online portal as this is 
where the information NatWest required would need to be uploaded.
A further letter was sent on 12 October to remind E it needed to complete the review 
process. This letter specified that the deadline for supplying this information was the 11 
November to prevent account restrictions from being applied.
E set up its access to the online portal on 29 October but there was no information submitted 
by it at that stage. 
As no information had been uploaded by E before the deadline of 11 November, NatWest 
wrote to it again on this date to give notice that account restrictions were about to be applied 
to the account. The letter advised E to urgently arrange for the requested documentation to 
be uploaded.
E submitted the information to NatWest on 18 November and, following a review of the 
information, NatWest requested a copy of Mr Hs passport in a letter dated 26 November. 
This document was required by 11 December to ensure the account wasnt restricted. 
E uploaded a copy of the passport before the 11 December deadline; however, it was not a 
certified copy of the passport as was required.
As the correct documentation had not been received by the deadline, NatWest wrote to E on 
11 December to inform it they would be placing restrictions on its account. Es account was 
restricted between 17 December 2019 and 8 January 2020.  The account restriction was 
lifted once NatWest received a certified copy of Mr Hs passport.
Miss H complained to NatWest on Es behalf about the impact of the account restrictions on 
its business, and about the customer service shed received when shed tried to log a 
complaint on 3 January 2020. NatWest explained the restrictions were applied as the 
information they requested hadnt been provided but as a gesture of goodwill they had 
refunded £60 in unpaid item fees. They apologised for the service Miss H had experienced 
on the call in January.
Mr H was unhappy with this outcome, so he brought Es complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into matters and said he didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong 
when they restricted the account. Mr H has since asked for an ombudsman to look at Es 
complaint, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
Mr H has asked me to consider the following points:
NatWest sent SMS reminders as well as letters to E but the phone number they held 
was incorrect, so the SMS messages were never received
The letters NatWest sent didnt stipulate what would happen if the information they 
requested wasnt received. However, a newer version of this letter, which E received 
for a new review in July, was much more informative about what would happen to the 
account if the information wasnt received
The letters were sent via post during an extremely busy time of year, which resulted 
in delays in them being received and some not being received at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator and Ive explained my 
reasons below. 
The incorrect telephone number
Mr H has provided me with evidence to show that the number NatWest sent the SMS 
messages to was incorrect. So first I need to decide what the impact of not receiving these 
messages was for E.
The SMS messages were sent on 19 September, 19 October, 18 November and 18 
December 2019. These messages were all sent a week after the letters as a reminder to E 
to action the content of the letters. E set up its access to the online portal on 29 October, 
which means that E received at least one, if not both letters, sent to it by NatWest in 
September and October 2019. All of the information required for the review was available 
once the online portal was accessed.
So, although I agree that NatWest could have ensured the phone number was correct and 
up to date, I am satisfied that E was aware that a review was required and that someone 
from E had successfully logged into the portal and therefore knew what information was 
required by NatWest. As a result, I dont uphold this part of the complaint as I cant see that 
receiving these messages would have changed anything that E did in relation to the review.
Information in the letters
Mr H told us that the letters received from NatWest didnt clearly stipulate what would 
happen if the information NatWest requested wasnt received. Mr H sent us copies of two 
letters E received from NatWest in relation to business profile reviews to illustrate this point. 
He also showed us that NatWest had recognised that their letter was unclear as they had 
since updated it to state more clearly what action NatWest would take if the requested 
information wasnt received. The first letter Mr H supplied was dated 11 December 2019 and 
the second from 9 July 2021. 
I have reviewed both letters and agree that they are different but thats because they were 
sent at different stages of the review process. If Mr H compares the letter of 9 July 2021 to 
the letters dated 12 September and 18 November 2019, he will see that the same information about how the account would be restricted is provided. So, I cant agree that 
NatWest didnt provide adequate information about how the account would be restricted if 
the information wasnt received on time.
Letters not received
As Ive detailed above, E set up its access to the online portal on 29 October, which 
indicated E received at least one, if not both letters, sent to it by NatWest in September and 
October 2019.
Mr H told us that the letter of 11 December must have been delayed in the post as it wasnt 
received by E until after the restrictions were applied to the account. I appreciate this may be 
the case, but the evidence provided by NatWest shows the letter was posted on 11 
December and I cant find NatWest responsible for delays with the postal service.
Additionally, in respect of Mr Hs comments about the time of the year these letters were 
posted, I would respectfully point out that NatWest first contacted E on 12 September asking 
for the initial information they required to be provided by 12 October. This information was 
not provided by E until 18 November, which therein delayed NatWests ability to ask for the 
additional identification document they required. So, I think its fair to say that had E 
responded sooner it would have made a difference in respect of the postal delays.
The account restrictions
A representative of E uploaded a copy of Mr Hs passport to the portal in early December, at 
which stage Mr H thought E had complied with the information request, so I can appreciate 
that he would have been surprised to find the account had been restricted on 17 December. 
Ive thought about whether NatWest treated E unfairly as Mr H thought the required 
document had been uploaded, but I dont think they have.
Ive seen how the online portal works and there are links to show what action needs to be 
taken before any information is uploaded. It is clear that the passport needed to be a 
certified copy, which it wasnt, so I dont think NatWest have acted unreasonably in 
restricting the account. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont think NatWest have treated E 
unfairly or unreasonably in this situation. So, I wont be asking them to take any further 
action in respect of this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf of 
E, to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman