DRN-3674969
The complaint
Mrs H complains about incorrect information given by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) during a phone call. 
Mrs H is being represented in her complaint by Mr H. 
What happened
During a phone call between Mr H and RSA, a member of RSAs staff referred to a phone 
call they had with either Mrs H or Mr H two days before about a claim that had been made. 
Mr H confirmed no call had taken place with either him or Mrs H. After the call ended, the 
member of staff realised theyd made an error and it was in fact a call between RSA and 
their loss adjuster. The member of staff tried calling Mr H back and also sent him an email 
confirming this. Mrs H complained about the incorrect information given and about the 
member of staff not logging a complaint during the call. 
RSA responded and accepted theyd made an error and acknowledged the incorrect 
information led to Mr H believing RSA had spoken to someone else about the claim and 
agreed this caused confusion. RSA also agreed the member of staff couldve handled the 
call better. RSA apologised for the errors and, as well as reallocating Mrs Hs claim to 
another case handler, they credited Mrs Hs account with £100.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs H. She thought RSAs payment of compensation 
was reasonable and wouldnt be asking them to do anything further. Mrs H disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think RSAs payment of compensation is a fair way to resolve matters. So, 
I dont uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs H will be disappointed by this but Ill explain 
why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs H. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. RSA have admitted they got things wrong when their member of staff incorrectly told 
Mr H that a call had taken place with either Mrs H or Mr H. RSA also agree the member of 
staff couldve handled the call better than they did. The only issue I have to decide is 
whether the payment of compensation theyve made is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that RSA should compensate Mrs H for the worry and upset caused by their 
poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation should be, 
Ive looked at the errors by RSA and what the impact of those errors have been. 
I acknowledge Mrs H was understandably concerned when she found out either her or Mr H 
were a party to a call  something which clearly wasnt the case. While I understand the 
worry this will have caused, I think its important to take into account the impact of this was 
limited as the member of staff acts promptly to correct this error. I can see the member of 
staff leaves a voicemail on Mr Hs phone shortly after the original call ended and they follow 
this up with an email. I think this wouldve reassured Mrs H that no call had taken place with 
a party not connected with their claim. 
Mrs H raises a number of issues about the member of staffs approach and its clear she lost 
confidence in their handling of her claim. I can see RSA have acknowledged this and, as 
well as the compensation already paid, I think they took reasonable steps by reallocating the 
claim to another case handler. 
I can see Mrs H raises a number of issues about RSAs complaints handling. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the 
law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into 
things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take 
into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this 
case, I cant say the issues which Mrs H raises about the complaints handling are an 
extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint 
handling part of the complaint. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ive focussed on what I believe are the key issues. I wish to reassure Mrs H 
Ive read and considered everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular 
point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I 
dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy 
and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.      
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman