DRN-4305236
The complaint
Mr W complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund all of the money he lost when he fell 
victim to an authorised push payment scam and transferred money to an account held at 
Starling.
He brings this complaint with the benefit of professional representation, and his 
representatives have submitted arguments and information on his behalf. But for clarity in 
what follows I will refer throughout to Mr W.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them at 
length here. But in summary, Mr W was the victim of a vehicle purchase scam. Hed seen a 
van advertised for sale on an auction website. Believing that his money would be held by an 
escrow service hed then sent a bank transfer of £9,000. Unfortunately, and unknown to 
Mr W at the time, in reality hed been dealing with a fraudster and did not receive the van or 
recover his money.
He made transfers from his own bank account to an account held at Starling. Starling, once 
notified of the fraud, restricted the recipient account. However, it said that only £427.01 
remained to be recovered by the time Mr W had reported the scam. This left Mr W 
significantly out of pocket.
Mr Ws bank and Starling are both signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides additional 
protection for the victims of APP scams such as this. But it does not mean that all scam 
payments must be refunded in full. 
Mr Ws bank and Starling both accepted they could have done more to protect Mr W. But 
both banks said Mr W wasnt entitled to a full refund of what hed lost, because hed not had 
a reasonable basis for believing he was sending a payment for a genuine van from a 
legitimate seller, or that he was paying the person he believed he was paying. Each bank 
said that the resultant losses should be shared equally between the three parties involved  
Mr W, his bank, and Starling. 
As a result, I understand that Mr Ws bank has refunded him £3,000 and similarly, Starling 
has refunded him £3,000, leaving Mr W with the remainder of the loss. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service for an impartial review and our Investigator 
looked into things. 
The Investigator didnt recommend that Starling needed to do anything further, and said she 
thought it had assessed Mr Ws claim fairly under the terms of the CRM Code. She didnt 
think Mr W was entitled to a full refund and thought that it was fair for the three parties to 
share the blame for the loss in equal proportions. And she didnt think Mr W was entitled to a 
larger refund than hed received from Starling for any other reason.
Mr W didnt agree. He said Starling was at fault in what had happened, and it should have 
done more. He said he was aware of other similar complaints where the receiving bank 
(here Starling) had been required to pay the full value of the loss not just one third. He 
thought he should receive the full amount outstanding from Starling. 
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Ws complaint on 2 August 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint and offered 
both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of 
that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but Im not upholding his complaint about Starling. I know 
hes been the victim of a cruel scam, and that hes been left significantly out of pocket 
despite the partial refunds hes received from his own bank and from Starling. But that 
originates from the actions of the criminals who deceived him. It doesnt necessarily 
follow that Starling should be held liable for the full amount of the remaining loss.
Having reviewed everything in detail, I dont believe Starling has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in its response to Mr Ws complaint. Im satisfied that the sum Starling has 
already paid Mr W was fair in all of the circumstances, including but not limited to the 
requirements of the CRM Code. So in short, I dont find Starling is liable for the balance 
of Mr Ws loss. Ill explain why in more detail.
As noted above, the CRM Code exists to provide additional protection to victims from 
the impact of APP scams. Im satisfied that the payment made by Mr W here falls within 
the scope of the CRM Code. 
The CRM Code requires signatory firms to meet a range of standards (either as the 
sending or the receiving firm). Where a firm hasnt met one or more of the relevant 
standards, and this is found to have been material to the success of the scam, the Code 
will usually require at least a partial refund to be made.
In its final response to Mr Ws complaint, Starling accepted it could have done more and 
that it hadnt met all of the required standards. It accepted a share of the responsibility 
and has correspondingly made a partial refund to Mr W. That refund reflects an equal, 
three ways share of the loss, with a third being apportioned to Starling, a third to Mr Ws 
own bank, and the remainder to Mr W himself.
The CRM Code permits firms to share equal responsibility for the loss with the customer 
where (amongst other things) it can be established that the customer made the payment 
without having had a reasonable basis for believing they were: paying for genuine goods 
or services; dealing with a legitimate person or business; or paying the person they 
believed they were paying.
Starling says it has established this applies here, and so it seeks to share responsibility 
for the loss. Ive considered whether I agree this is fair in the circumstances. In other 
words, I need to determine whether Mr W made this payment without having had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was paying for a genuine goods or services, dealing 
with a legitimate person or business, or paying the person he believed he was paying.
Mr W found the van advertised on a popular auction website. Mr W says hed not used 
this auction site before, and he was making a relatively large purchase. I think in those 
circumstances it would be reasonable to expect hed have taken more care than usual 
before making a payment by bank transfer.
Having researched the vans true value at the time, Im satisfied that the quoted price was around half the normal market value (or less) for the van Mr W was intending to 
purchase. The van was described as being in perfect condition, supposedly being sold 
due to lack of use. It doesnt appear Mr W was given a plausible reason for the price 
being so low, especially given that the seller said they had a lot of interest from other 
buyers. Rather, I think this deal was simply too good to be true. 
The seller had no reviews on the auction site - which Mr W says he assumed meant it 
was a new seller. But that also meant he had nothing to rely on in terms of prior sales 
history. When Mr W asked to collect in person, he was told that wasnt possible as the 
seller was away through work. So, he was sending the money without having been able 
to verify that the seller actually had the vehicle. This was a significant amount of trust to 
place in a relative stranger and sending this size of payment for a vehicle found online 
and sight unseen was a risk.
Mr W says he didnt carry out an HPI check because the vans registration number 
looked valid when he checked it against the governments MOT website. But while that 
would have shown that a vehicle of that registration existed (and had been MOT 
checked at a point in time) this information was limited in use. It wouldnt show that the 
purported seller actually owned the van or its status.
The seller provided the names of two well-known and legitimate companies  
supposedly acting as an escrow company and a delivery company. Had this been true it 
could have provided a degree of reassurance. But Mr W was told hed need to pay an 
individuals personal bank account, not a business account belonging to either company. 
I think this unusual arrangement and apparent inconsistency in the story ought to have 
raised further concerns with Mr W.
Overall, having considered all of the evidence here, I dont think Mr W had a reasonable 
basis for believing he was paying who he expected to pay, nor that he was paying a 
legitimate seller for genuine goods. So, under the terms of the CRM Code, Starling is 
entitled to share responsibility for the loss with Mr W (and with Mr Ws bank). I dont find 
Starling needs to refund Mr W more than the one third share it has already paid him.
Of course, I would not think it either fair or reasonable if the CRM Code (to which Mr W 
was not himself directly a party or even necessarily aware of) meant he would be left 
worse off than had the Code not existed. But I do not think that is the case here. For 
similar reasons as detailed above, I consider it fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint that Mr W bears a one-third share of those losses, to 
reflect what I consider the fair apportionment of liability.
In saying this, I understand Mr Ws point that in some instances this service has found 
the receiving bank to be wholly liable for the loss incurred. But I must decide each case 
on its own merits and based on what I consider is fair and reasonable given the specific 
facts and circumstances applying to that complaint. Having done so here, I am satisfied 
that for the reasons set out above it would not be fair for me to require Starling to pay a 
greater proportion of the loss than it already has done.
In my provisional decision, I asked both sides to provide any further arguments or 
information by 16 August 2023, after which point, I said I would issue my final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has responded to my provisional conclusions with additional information or 
arguments. In light of this, I see no reason to depart from the findings and the resolution I 
proposed in my provisional decision as quoted above, and for the same reasons. 
In short, for the reasons set out above, it is my final decision that Starling has already paid 
Mr W a fair settlement, and I do not require it to do more than it has already done.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I do not uphold Mr Ws 
complaint about Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman