DRN-2369772
The complaint
Mrs P complains that an advisor from The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited
recommended and sold her a policy which he said would guarantee to pay out £35,000
when she died i.e. it was a whole of life insurance policy. She has just discovered the policy
is a 20-year term assurance policy and is about to expire.
What happened
An investigator at this service felt her complaint should be upheld as the evidence indicated
Mrs P had been looking for permanent cover to provide a lump sum to help pay for the living
costs of her disabled son after her death. As such, this policy was not suitable.
He said Royal Mutual should reconstruct Mrs Ps policy, going forward, on the basis of what
would have been a more suitable recommendation. He then explored various options in
terms of what type of policy might have been available at the time and what level of cover
would have been possible. This involved a degree of speculation about what Mrs P might
have wanted/been able to afford, what Royal Mutual could have offered and what other
providers might have provided.
While Royal Mutual had initially rejected Mrs Ps complaint, it now said it didnt dispute the
investigators findings but didnt believe his proposed options going forward were either
appropriate or deliverable. It didnt accept that Mrs P could have acquired a whole of life
policy at an affordable price back in 2000 and said it definitely wasnt possible to source a
new affordable policy now.
Mrs Ps daughter did some investigations of her own and said such a policy would be
available for around £50 to £60 a month.
As no agreement could be reached the case was referred to me.
In order to fully understand Mrs Ps situation back in 2000 - and therefore what would have
been a more appropriate recommendation  I spoke to her at length about her
circumstances and objectives and her recollections of the meeting with the advisor. Some of
this information was in the original file and was taken into consideration by the investigator in
reaching his view.
Mrs P said that the advisor fully understood her situation, having visited regularly to collect
their general insurance premiums. He knew that shed recently been widowed and was now
the sole carer for their disabled son. This is why he recommended life insurance. It was he
who suggested that a monthly premium of £22 (plus) would provide £35,000 cover and
made very clear that this was a guaranteed sum to be paid out after her death.
There was no suggestion that it was a time-limited policy. She was 50 at the time and would
not have wanted a policy that ended when she was 70 as the sole purpose was to deliver a
sum of money to help pay for her sons ongoing support after her death. She said had not
thought about either how much cover she wanted or how much she wanted/could afford to
pay for it. The figures had been entirely driven by the advisor, who did not offer any
alternatives.
She said she might have been able to pay more in premiums but couldnt say, with hindsight,
how much and crucially this had never been suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In a Provisional Decision, I said:
I acknowledge that the advisor recorded that Mrs P was only looking for cover for 20 years
till her disabled son was (financially) independent but I am not persuaded that this was an
accurate summary of her situation.
Based on Mrs Ps written and oral testimony, which I found persuasive and convincing, I am
satisfied that she wanted  and was led to believe  that the proposed policy was cover for
life i.e. it would pay out whenever she died.
I also think it is impossible to safely say what Mrs P would have done if the advisor had fully
explored the realistic options available to her, including what cover would be possible at
what price. This is partly because Mrs P herself says she was never asked how much she
could afford to pay or how much cover she ideally wanted. 
I understand why the investigator explored the possibility of a longer-term policy, including 
one for 29 years which Royal Mutual did offer at the time. But I do not think there is sufficient 
evidence to safely say what Mrs P should have been recommended or what she would have 
chosen if better advised.
In these situations the only appropriate redress is to refund the premiums a customer has
paid. I therefore intend to instruct Royal London to pay back the £5,000 plus Mrs P has paid
in premiums, adding 8% simple interest per annum to each premium from the date it was
paid to the date of settlement of this complaint (by which time her policy will have expired).
This unfortunately leaves her woefully short of the £35,000 of life insurance which, I
understand, she has been relying on to support her son after her death. But I am not
persuaded that she could have afforded a non-reviewable whole of life policy with a £35,000
sum assured, the likely premiums being very considerably more than her disposable income
at the time.
However, I do believe that Royal London has caused Mrs P very considerable trouble and
upset, along with distress going forward, as a result of its poor advice. And, in practice, has
prevented her from putting in place affordable cover from now on. While Mrs Ps daughter
sourced some apparently affordable policies these quotes did not take into account Mrs Ps
current health issues, issues which would almost certainly mean she wouldnt be eligible to
take up these quotes.
Further, its impossible for me to say what other provision Mrs P might have tried to make for
her son over the past 20 years if aware she did not have the cover she was relying on. She
may, for example, have sought to build up a savings pot for her sons eventual benefit.
Given these factors, I intend to instruct Royal Mutual to pay Mrs P £2,500 in lieu of the
trouble and upset its failings have caused. This sum falls within the Serious bracket of ourproposed scale of awards for trouble and upset payments and I am satisfied this is 
appropriate in this case.
Mrs P accepted my proposed compensation. Royal Mutual did not reply.
Putting things right
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited must refund all the premiums Mrs P has 
paid on this policy, adding 8% simple interest per annum to each premium from the date it 
was paid to the date of settlement of this complaint (by which time her policy will have 
expired).
It must also pay her £2,500 in lieu of the very considerable trouble and upset its poor advice 
has caused her.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay 
compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman