DRN-1540834
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (previously Bristol & West Building 
Society) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr and Mrs D took out in 1998 alongside a mortgage 
they'd arranged in 1994. It provided cover for Mr D in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
For ease of reference, Ill refer to Bristol & West Building Society as Bank of Ireland 
throughout this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities - that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why below.
Theres limited information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs D in 
1998, which isnt unusual given the sale took place over twenty years ago.
Mr and Mrs D say they were put under pressure to take the policy, and that Bank of Ireland 
told them they couldn't get the mortgage they wanted if they didn't have the policy. Bank of 
Ireland has said it can't be sure how the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs D, but it thinks it's 
possible they bought it by way of a mailshot. I've thought very carefully about everything the 
parties have said. I'm also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and that 
exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Bank of Ireland's records show Mr and Mrs D's mortgage started in 1994, but the bank didn't 
start collecting the PPI premiums until early1999. This suggests to me that the policy was 
sold some time after Mr and Mrs D's mortgage had started. So I don't think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to say that Bank of Ireland put Mr and Mrs D under pressure to buy the 
policy as they suggest. On balance I think its more likely that Bank of Ireland gave Mr and 
Mrs D a choice about the PPI, and that they chose to take it.Mrs D has mentioned that she was in a stable job and that she also had two other jobs that 
would've funded the mortgage repayments. Mrs D is unhappy that she wasn't covered by the 
policy.
There isn't enough evidence for me to say why Mrs D wasn't covered by the policy, but I 
understand that she had periods of part-time work before returning to the profession in which 
she originally trained. As Mr D was the main earner, this could explain why only he was 
covered by the policy. And it wasn't unusual for only one party to be covered by a PPI policy, 
even where the borrowing was in joint names.
As only Mr D was covered by the PPI, it's his circumstances that I've considered in deciding 
whether the policy was mis-sold.
There isn't enough evidence for me to say whether or not Bank of Ireland recommended the 
policy to Mr and Mrs D. But even if I were to decide that the PPI was recommended to Mr 
and Mrs D, I dont think Bank or Ireland was wrong to recommend it to them. Ill explain why.
From what I've seen, I think its likely Mr D would have been eligible for the cover. And I cant 
see he would have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as 
pre-existing medical conditions or people who were self-employed.
Mr and Mrs D have told me they were entitled to employer benefits if they were off work sick, 
and that they had other insurance policies in place.  They've also said they had some 
savings they could've used to pay their mortgage if things went wrong.
I've seen a copy of an insurance policy that would've paid the equivalent of Mr D's salary if 
he was off work sick. But that policy wouldn't have paid out until Mr D had been away from 
work for a year. So I think the PPI would've provided a useful benefit during that time. 
The PPI would've also paid out in addition to Mr D's employer benefits. And it would've 
meant Mr and Mrs D could use those benefits and their savings to pay for other expenses. 
So I think Mr and Mrs D would've had some use for the policy, despite their existing 
arrangements. 
I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs D before 
they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs D took out the policy knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I 
think it unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Bank of Ireland gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr D wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs D would have made a different decision if better information had been provided 
 overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman