DRN-3124523
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Pension Insurance Corporation Plc wont honour her late brothers 
wish that she be paid a dependents pension from his pension plan.
Mrs C is represented in her complaint by Mr C, Mr Rs nephew and the executor of his 
estate. 
What happened
Mr R was a member of the occupational pension scheme (OPS) from his employment with a 
company Ill call T. Mr R had never married and had no children, so had no dependents 
according to the pension scheme rules. Mr R retired and took benefits from his pension in 
1987.
In November 2004 Mr R wrote to the trustees of the T pension scheme to nominate his sister 
Mrs C as his specified dependent, as they lived together and were financially 
interdependent. In January 2005 the trustees exercised their discretion to accept Mrs C as 
Mr Rs specified dependent, who in the event of Mr Rs death would receive a reduced 
pension of £2,963 per year.
In 2008 the trustees entered into an agreement with Pension Insurance Corporation Plc 
(PIC), whereby on the payment of a premium it would buy-out the T pension plan. PIC 
assumed responsibility for paying the scheme benefits by way of Individual Annuity Policies 
for each scheme member.  
In 2010 Mr R was sent a revised schedule of benefits which explained that in the absence of 
a spouse, civil partner or dependent child, a dependents pension may be payable after the 
members death to any other person who qualifies as a dependent of the Member at the 
Members death for the purposes of the Finance Act 2004. 
In 2015 PIC wrote to Mr R to explain responsibility for the administration of his pension 
would be passing to firm M, but that nothing else would change. 
Mr R sadly passed away in 2020, and so Mr C contacted PIC to claim a dependents 
pension for Mrs C. PIC asked Mrs C to provide evidence to support her claim, but ultimately 
said that under the scheme rules a sister wasnt entitled to a dependents pension.
Mr C provided a copy of a nomination form Mr R had signed in 2005, showing the trustees of 
T had accepted Mrs C as Mr Rs specified dependent. The transfer of the scheme to PIC 
hadnt changed that. So he complained on Mrs Cs behalf.
PIC didnt uphold the complaint, saying the new schedule of benefits issued in 2010 outlining 
the terms of Mr Rs annuity superseded what was in place before, and this didnt include 
specified dependents. 
Unhappy with this Mr C referred Mrs Cs complaint to this service, saying the wording of the 
letter Mr R received in 2010 led him to believe the agreement with T would be honoured by 
PIC. Mr C said if Mr R had known his sister Mrs C would no longer be accepted as his 
specified dependent, he wouldve made additional provision for her. As Mr R wasnt told, he 
said PIC should follow Mr Rs wishes and pay a dependents pension to Mrs C. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying the scheme trustees acceptance of Mrs 
C as Mr Rs specified dependent didnt form part of the agreement when responsibility was 
passed to PIC. 
Mr C disagreed, saying PICs 2016 letter advising of the administration moving to M, had told 
Mr R he didnt need to take any action. So as PIC hadnt made Mr R aware of the change it 
should follow his wishes. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont comment on the decision taken by the trustees of the T pension scheme to enter into 
an agreement with PIC, and which benefits it was agreed would be covered. This service 
has no jurisdiction over the trustees of an occupational pension scheme. In this decision Im 
just looking at whether PIC has acted fairly in refusing to honour the decision of the pension 
fund trustees, to allow Mr R to nominate his sister Mrs C as his specified dependent". 
Mr R retired from T in 1987, so by 2004 hed already been receiving his pension for around 
17 years when he asked the pension scheme trustees if they would allow him to nominate 
his sister Mrs C as his beneficiary. He had none of the necessary relationships as hed never 
married or entered into a civil partnership and had no children. 
Clause 35(1) of the T pension scheme rules allowed the trustees to award discretionary 
benefits. This included the discretion to award a pension or allowance to a person who is 
dependent on a Member, former Member or deceased Member for all or any of the ordinary 
necessaries of life. Trustees have a responsibility to act in the interests of the scheme as a 
whole, so asked Mr R for evidence to show Mrs C met this definition, acceptance of Mr Rs 
nomination wasnt automatic. In January 2005 the trustees wrote to Mr R confirming theyd 
accepted Mrs C as his specified dependent, but this would change if Mr R married or if Mrs 
C was no longer financially dependent on him at the time of his death. So I think Mr R was 
put on notice Mrs Cs status as a dependent was subject to review. 
Under the terms of the buy-out, PIC accepted a premium payment, in exchange for which it 
assumed responsibility for the liabilities of the OPS for Mr Rs employer T. PICs role is to 
pay the pensions already in payment, and to ensure it can pay the future pensions for 
existing members and their dependents, following the scheme rules. 
But point 6.4 of the agreement between PIC and the T pension scheme specifically excluded 
any discretionary benefits as follows Quotation Benefits, Initial Benefits and Verified 
Benefits will not include any discretionary benefits (except to the extent the relevant 
discretion has already been exercised).. I think this meant PIC would continue to pay any 
discretionary benefits already in payment but going forward would only pay dependents 
according to the scheme rules. 
Point 3.2 of the scheme rules limit the payment of a dependents pension as follows: The 
annuity may be payable to the Members widow or widower or surviving civil partner, or to such a person who was married to or a civil partner of the Member when his annuity 
commenced, or to such a child, or other person who qualifies as a dependant of the Member 
at the Member's death for the purposes of the Finance Act 2004, as specified in the 
Schedule. So the criteria of being dependent for the ordinary necessaries of life no longer 
applied. 
Paragraph 15 Schedule 28 of The Finance Act 2004 defines a beneficiary as 15(1) A 
person who was married to the member at the date of the member's death (a) is a 
dependant of the member (b) has reached that age and, in the opinion of the scheme 
administrator, was at the date of the member's death dependant on the member because of 
physical or mental impairment. I understand Mrs C is elderly and in poor health now, and 
Ive been told by Mr C she was diagnosed with the lung condition COPD in 2010. But the 
trustees agreed to accept her as a specified dependent due to her financial dependency, 
not because of physical or mental impairment.  
The Schedule of Discretions dealt with each of the discretionary decisions the trustees had 
made. This made clear PIC hadnt adopted the powers under clause 35(1) to award 
discretionary benefits. And whereas trustees were able to exercise their discretion based on 
evidence of financial interdependency, PIC is only obliged to pay a survivors pension to in 
order of priority, a legal spouse, legal civil partner, an individual of either sex in a relationship 
closely resembling marriage, or children up to the age of 16 (or 23 if in fulltime education). 
This was reflected when PIC wrote to Mr R in November 2010 with an updated schedule of 
benefits which had been purchased by the trustees of the T pension scheme as part of the 
buyout by PIC. Part B section 10.1 dealt with the recipients of the Members death benefits, 
which will only be paid to (10.11) a spouse or civil partner, (10.12) a dependent of either sex 
in a relationship with the member closely resembling marriage or civil partnership, or (10.13) 
a qualifying child. 
I think its likely Mrs C was financially dependent or interdependent on her brother Mr R, as 
theyd lived together all their lives. According to Mr C theyd lived with their parents in the 
family council house, and after their death the tenancy passed to Mr R, enabling him to 
purchase the property in 1987. Mrs C married in 1952 and was widowed five years later, but 
her husband moved into the family home with them. Mr R provided the roof over Mrs Cs 
head and paid the bills. But I dont think their relationship was one closely resembling 
marriage. Such a relationship isnt defined, but I think its natural meaning denotes 
unmarried couples who were cohabiting but could have married. Mr R and Mrs C were 
unable to marry as they were siblings. So Im satisfied under the terms of the buyout 
agreement PIC wasnt obliged to pay a dependents pension to Mrs C on Mr Rs death. 
Mr C says even if PIC wasnt obliged to pay a dependents pension to Mrs C, it should follow 
Mr Rs wishes as it hadnt let him know, meaning he was denied the opportunity to make 
alternative arrangements for her. Theres no mention of discretionary benefits in the 
November 2010 schedule, but the letter does say I would like to reassure you that the 
Trustee, with our help and the help of its legal and actuarial advisors, has satisfied itself that 
your (and your dependants) pension entitlements under the [T] Pension Fund are properly 
reflected in the Individual Annuity Policy. So I think Mr R assumed the discretionary decision 
taken by the trustees would be adopted by PIC. Other than the updated schedule, he hadnt 
specifically been told the agreement by the trustees hadnt been adopted by PIC. 
So Ive thought about what Mr R is likely to have done if PIC had made it clear that they 
would limit the payment of a dependents pension as set out in the scheme rules, and being 
siblings meant Mr R and Mrs Cs relationship didnt closely resemble marriage. Mr C says Mr 
R wouldve made provision for Mrs C and had the financial means to do so. Ive not seen 
evidence of Mr Rs finances, but Im prepared to accept he might have wished to provide for Mrs C should he predecease her. For example by contributing to a savings product or a life 
assurance policy (which given their ages wouldve been quite expensive). But any such 
payments made in the ten years prior to Mr Rs death wouldve come from his income, rather 
than being paid by PIC, which wouldve had the effect of reducing the size of his residual 
estate, which Mrs C has inherited as his sole heir. 
I dont think the 2016 letter is relevant, as it only advised Mr R that M would be assuming 
responsibility for administrating his pension. I wouldnt expect it to mention anything relating 
to the buyout which had taken place several years previously.  
Although Mr R was under the impression hed secured a dependents pension for Mrs C, Im 
satisfied following the buyout by PIC she wasnt entitled to one. The agreement didnt 
include discretionary benefits, and Mrs C didnt meet the definition of a dependent as set out 
in the scheme rules. While it doesnt look like PIC specifically explained the implications of 
the buyout to Mr R, other than providing the revised schedule in 2010, I cant fairly say it 
should make an exception for Mrs C and agree to pay her a dependents pension. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman