DRN-2290453
The complaint
Mr S complains about the handling of his property insurance claim by Society of Lloyds 
(SoL).
What happened
Mr S made a claim under his policy after being told about crack damage at his rental 
property. 
SoL arranged for a loss adjuster to carry out an inspection. A claim for subsidence damage 
was accepted and SoLs contractor carried out the repairs.
Mr S complained to SoL about the claim. He was unhappy with the time it took for the repairs 
to take place, as well as some other issues.
SoL didnt uphold the complaint, and so Mr S brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought SoL had carried 
out appropriate investigations into the claim, and there hadnt been excessive delays in 
doing so. She also considered SoLs expenditure on the claim was necessary for the repairs, 
and pointed out that Mr S would have only been liable for the excess. Although Mr S paid for 
some repairs himself, those were the repairs that werent caused by subsidence. Finally, the 
investigator thought the loss of rent payment made by SoL had been reasonable.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been referred to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr S became aware of a crack in the property, he arranged for a surveyor and his own 
builder to look at it. He says they both advised him the cost would be below £2,500 and that 
it would take around two weeks to repair. Mr S is therefore unhappy with how long it took 
SoL to deal with the matter, and the cost of the repairs. 
As our investigator has pointed out, SoL arranged for drain investigations to take place (to 
see if the drains were causing the subsidence), which delayed matters. I also see that 
materials containing asbestos were found on site  these needed to be tested and then 
removed, with additional repairs needed as a result. The repairs themselves were able to 
start at the beginning of May 2019, and were completed on 5 June 2019. 
Taking into account the investigations and work that took place, the length of time it took to 
complete the repairs doesnt seem excessive. And as the investigator has explained, the 
total cost of the repairs was necessary for them to be completed. Whilst this was more than 
Mr Ss surveyor and builder had estimated, the investigations carried out by SoL and the 
asbestos issues likely increased the overall cost. 
Mr S says that SoLs loss adjuster was intoxicated during the initial visit. The loss adjuster 
denies this, and theres no way for this service to establish this either way. So I cant 
consider this further. However, it seems Mr Ss concerns centre around the loss adjuster 
advising him that the repairs would take around two to four weeks to complete, but they 
ended up taking several months. 
The repairs themselves apparently took around five weeks, which wasnt much more than 
the loss adjuster had thought  the delay in the repairs starting was due to the various 
investigations that took place, the asbestos, as well as SoL obtaining estimates for the 
repairs etc. And Mr S accepts that the loss adjuster had advised him the drains would need 
to be inspected before the repairs could begin, so he knew they wouldnt be able to start 
immediately. 
Mr S says that SoL divided some of the damage in the property into insured repairs and 
uninsured repairs. And that SoLs contractor requested he pay £1,800 for damage not 
related to subsidence. He says he felt he had no choice but pay this.
The loss adjuster emailed  Mr S on 1 May 2019, before the repairs had started, to say the 
scope of works included some work (mainly decorative elements) that he didnt think could 
be attributed to subsidence. And that for the sake of expediency, he suggested they award 
the works (to the contractor) based on the estimate and agree any omissions over the 
coming days. 
I understand Mr S was then in contact with SoLs contractor about the uninsured works.
I think the loss adjusters email could have made it clearer which elements of the scope of 
works werent going to be covered under the claim. Though its also the case that Mr S could 
have asked for further clarification on this if hed wanted.
Whilst the loss adjuster suggested they go ahead with the contractor based on the estimate 
provided for expediency reasons, I agree with our investigator that if Mr S hadnt wanted to 
do that, he could have asked for the scope of works to be adjusted so that it only included 
the subsidence damage. Or alternatively he could have arranged for his own contractor to do 
the uninsured repairs. Whilst this may well have caused a delay to the repairs, I dont think 
its correct to say that he had no choice in the matter. 
Mr S says the house was uninhabitable, and so hes suffered a loss of rent for the time the 
property was without a tenant. 
The policy says the following in respect of loss of rent:
If the premises becomes uninhabitable following loss or damage which is covered by an 
Insured Eventfor:
i) The amount of rent due to be paid to you which is lost, or
ii) The reasonable cost of similar accommodation for your tenant(s), and
iii) The amount of ground rent payable by you
but only in respect of the period necessary to repair the premises.
SoL doesnt agree that the property was uninhabitable as a result of subsidence damage, 
and instead thinks there was additional damage caused by exploratory works carried out by 
Mr Ss builder. Ive read Mr Ss surveyors report (which was obtained before the claim was made to SoL). 
This says the rear of the property had rotated away from the front with the lightest crack at 
the ground floor level, widening up into the attic  pictures were provided of this. The report 
estimated the repair costs to be in the region of £2,000.
Based upon this information, it doesnt seem that the crack damage caused by the 
subsidence meant the property was uninhabitable. Mr S says his tenant moved out of the 
property because of the crack, but that in itself doesnt mean the property was uninhabitable. 
Mr S has confirmed that he instructed his builder to remove the plaster around one crack, 
which then showed a large gap in the wall. So I think SoL was likely correct when it said 
further damage was caused by the exploratory work Mr S had arranged. If that then meant 
the property became uninhabitable (as Mr S says), then this wouldnt be covered under the 
loss of rent section of cover.
Even though Mr S didnt have a tenant living in the property when the repairs took place, 
SoL has paid him loss of rent based on rental income of £450 per month for the five-week 
period that it was carrying out the repairs. It has also covered his council tax payments. I 
think that was reasonable, as Mr S couldnt have found another tenant to live in the property 
at that time. So I dont require SoL to make a further payment in respect of loss of rent.
Mr S asked SoLs contractor to share information about the repairs it had carried out with his 
own surveyor. The contractor sought permission from SoL before doing so. Although Mr S 
was frustrated by this, given that the contractor had carried out the repairs on SoLs behalf, I 
dont think it did anything wrong by obtaining SoLs permission before providing this 
information to Mr Ss surveyor.
Mr S says the smoke alarms werent reinstalled after the repairs were completed. He 
therefore arranged this himself and submitted an invoice to SoL. However, SoL hasnt paid 
this because it says the invoice was for all new smoke detectors in the property, but not all 
the rooms were involved in the repairs. 
Weve asked SoL for more information about this. It says that Mr S couldve asked its 
contractor to reinstate the smoke alarms whilst they were on site. Nonetheless, it says it will 
consider making a contribution towards the new smoke alarms for the ones it removed.  
SoL was only obliged to cover the cost of reinstalling the smoke alarms it removed. If Mr S 
chose to have new smoke alarms installed throughout the property, then SoL doesnt need 
to cover that cost. I see that SoL has attempted to engage with Mr S further about the 
matter, but Mr S hasnt pursued it. If Mr S still wants SoL to make a payment towards the 
smoke alarms he had installed, he should provide it with confirmation of the smoke alarms 
its contractor had removed, so that it can work out how much it needs to contribute towards 
the invoice.
Mr S doesnt think all the damage caused by subsidence has been repaired. He thinks SoL 
should arrange for another loss adjuster to visit the property, or arrange for an independent 
survey to take place. I agree with our investigator that it was reasonable for SoL to rely upon 
its loss adjusters findings, and Mr S hasnt provided any evidence to support his view that 
theres other damage caused by the subsidence that SoL needed to repair.
Mr S thinks that SoL should take responsibility for the problems found with the drains. Whilst 
I understand there were issues with the drains, SoL didnt think this was causing the 
subsidence (or vice versa), and Mr S hasnt provided any evidence to support that the 
problems with the drains were linked to the subsidence. Nor has he shown that the drainage issues would be covered elsewhere under the policy. Im therefore satisfied that SoL didnt 
need to repair the drains. 
Mr S also says one of the cracks that was repaired has opened up again. I understand hes 
already raised this with SoL, which was the appropriate action. Id expect SoL to consider 
whether further investigator is needed into this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman