DRN-2937484
The complaint
Mr L complains about a fixed term loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
L2G, which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
L2G provided Mr L with a loan of £600 on 1 September 2018. The loan was to be repaid 
over 18 monthly instalments of £135.93. If Mr L made each payment when it was due, hed 
pay £2446.74 in total. 
Mr L says through his representative that L2G gave him a loan that was unaffordable.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
L2G gathered some information from Mr L about his income and expenses before it agreed 
the loan. It also carried out a credit check.
As Ive already mentioned, Ive seen how L2G asked about Mr Ls financial circumstances by 
checking his credit file and verifying his income. But Im not satisfied that these checks went 
far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 18 months and L2G needed to ensure the repayments 
were sustainable over that relatively long period of time;
L2Gs analysis showed discrepancies between its checks and Mr Ls declared 
income and credit expenditure;
The discrepancy between Mr Ls declared expenditure (£315) and what it had 
calculated it to be (£628.28) was significantly wide as was the income that it had 
verified. There was a difference of around £525 in what Mr L had declared his 
monthly income to be and what it found out.
For the above reasons, I consider L2Gs checks should have included a full review of Mr Ls 
financial circumstances, including further verification of his expenditure so it could ensure 
that the loan repayments were affordable and sustainable.
I need to think about what L2G would have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Our adjudicator, on 26 March 2021, asked Mr L to provide his bank statements from around 
the time he applied for the loan. Im not suggesting here that this is the check that L2G 
should have done. But I think looking at his bank statements would give me the best picture 
of what the lender should have seen.
Mr L has not provided our service with bank statements from before and around when he 
took out the loan though. And it hasnt provided any other supporting information either 
regarding Mr Ls finances either such as a credit report. So, I havent been able to see what 
L2G would have most likely seen if it had carried out further checks. So, because of this, I 
am unable to safely conclude that Mr L was given a loan that was unaffordable for him. 
Finally, Mr Ls complaint was initially upheld because our adjudicator felt L2G didnt make a 
fair lending decision based on what it would have seen within the credit search that it carried 
out at the time. I have looked through the results of the credit check L2G carried out, and 
although I can see there are two CCJs listed, it does look like this is one CCJ that has then 
been duplicated as it is for the same amount, with the same reference number and date. 
When I consider this one CCJ listed and also the rest of the credit search results, I havent 
seen enough that would indicate that the amount of debt Mr L had, or how he was managing 
it, should have led L2G to decline the loan based on what it had in front of it.
In conclusion, I do think the discrepancy between the information Mr L provided and what 
L2G saw in its credit checks ought to have suggested better checks. And Ive not been able 
to see what better checks would have shown L2G, so on this occasion I havent been able to 
draw any conclusions about this, other than I cant say that the loan was unaffordable for Mr 
L.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im currently not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. L2G responded and said it had no further comments to 
make. Mr L did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L2G has not made any further points and Mr L has not responded. So, as neither party has 
anything further to add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my 
provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman