DRN-2374215
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt respond to his 
correspondence about a repayment plan and instead passed his account to and from a debt 
collection agency.
What happened
Mr S has a credit card account with RBS. In April 2019, he wrote to them explaining that he 
was experiencing some financial difficulties and seeking to agree a repayment plan for his 
credit card. He says that RBS didnt respond to this letter and simply issued a Default Notice.
In May 2019, Mr S agreed a repayment plan with RBS. Soon after that, RBS passed the 
account to a debt collection agency which Ill call W. In December 2019, Mr Ss account was 
returned to RBS. In January 2020, W wrote to Mr S saying that it was no longer dealing with 
his account and that he should contact RBS. 
Mr S contacted RBS in June 2020 and made a complaint. He said that RBS hadnt replied to 
his correspondence about a repayment plan. And he was unhappy that they had passed his 
account to the debt collection agency, who then handed it back to RBS. He said he had no 
contact from RBS about this, which meant he wasnt able to put a repayment plan in place 
because he didnt know who was dealing with the account.
RBS said they had no record of receiving any correspondence from Mr S after April 2019. 
They said that his account had been with W since 21 June 2019 apart from five days in 
December 2019 when it had been recalled, before being re-allocated to W. RBS said they 
hadnt communicated with Mr S directly because all contact about the account was managed 
by W on their behalf. But RBS apologised for the inconvenience to Mr S and paid him £50 as 
an apology.
Mr S wasnt happy with RBSs response and brought his complaint to this service. He said 
that £50 doesnt reflect the anxiety the situation caused. He said that RBS didnt address the 
issue fully and have since passed his account to another debt collection agency.
Our investigator thought that RBS had acted fairly and didnt ask them to do any more. But 
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to review. Mr S says that RBS 
made no attempt to help him and simply moved his account between different debt 
collectors. He remains unhappy that they didnt respond to his correspondence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr S wrote to RBS in April 2019 seeking to set up a repayment plan. I 
havent seen any evidence that RBS responded to this in writing, and they appear to accept 
that they didnt do so. But I note that their contact notes show several unsuccessful attempts 
to call Mr S in the period between receiving his letter and issuing the Default Notice.
 
RBS spoke to Mr S in May 2019. Im satisfied that his income and expenditure were 
discussed and that a repayment plan was agreed at this time. So, whilst no written response 
was sent to Mr S in reply to his letter, I find that a repayment plan was set up shortly 
afterwards. I havent seen any evidence that Mr S contacted RBS after May 2019 until he 
made his complaint in June 2020.
A few weeks after the repayment plan had been set up, RBS transferred Mr Ss account to 
W. The terms and conditions of Mr Ss account allow RBS to do this and I dont think they 
acted unfairly by doing so here.
Im satisfied that Mr Ss account was with W from 21 June 2019. It was recalled by RBS in 
December 2019. RBS have explained that the account had been placed with W for six 
months. Once the six-month period had expired, the account was recalled so that it could be 
re-allocated. It was re-allocated back to W. I think thats reasonable. Im satisfied that the 
account was only back with RBS for a few days and that it was passed back to W on 24 
December 2019.
W wrote to Mr S in late January 2020, saying that it was no longer dealing with his account. 
The information in this letter seems to have been incorrect and I can understand how it was 
confusing and contradictory from Mr Ss point of view. But, as the letter was sent by W, and 
because Im satisfied that RBS had re-allocated the account to W by this stage, I cant 
conclude that RBS are responsible for this mistake.
I understand that a different debt collection business was appointed by RBS in June 2020. I 
find that RBS are entitled to appoint an agency of their choice and I havent seen any 
evidence that theyve acted unfairly by appointing a different agency here, after the account 
had been with W for a year.
I understand that the appointment of a debt collection agency was distressing for Mr S. But I 
dont think RBS acted unreasonably or unfairly by appointing an agency here. Its not ideal 
that RBS didnt provide a written response to Mr Ss letter of April 2019 and I can understand 
his frustration about that. But I havent seen anything to suggest that the lack of a written 
response caused him any significant detriment, as a repayment plan was agreed shortly 
afterwards. And I havent seen any evidence of further unanswered correspondence. 
RBS have already paid Mr S £50 by way of an apology for the inconvenience he 
experienced. I think thats fair. I realise Mr S thinks its not enough to reflect the anxiety he 
experienced, but Im not going to ask RBS to do any more. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I 
dont think RBS have acted unfairly here so Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman