DRN-3926637
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC decided to close their accounts.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr S received a letter from Barclays which explained that theyd taken the 
decision to close his accounts and would do so in two months time. These included Mr Ss 
accounts which he held jointly with Mrs S. 
Mr and Mrs S contacted Barclays and asked why theyd made the decision to close their 
accounts and was told it was because of business transactions taking place on one of Mr Ss 
personal accounts. Mr and Mrs S werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Barclays responded and reiterated their decision to close Mr and Mrs Ss accounts. Mr and 
Mrs S werent satisfied with Barclays response, so they asked this service to consider their 
complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr and Mrs Ss complaint but didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unfairly by closing their accounts as they had. Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, and after taking all the circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
In much the same way as a customer is free to choose to close an account with Barclays 
and obtain banking services elsewhere, so Barclays is free to choose to no longer offer 
banking services to a particular customer and to close that customers accounts  so long as 
they do so in line with their terms and conditions.
Barclays terms include that they can close a customers account so long as they provide 60 
days notice to that customer of their intention to do so. And Im satisfied that Barclays did 
that here, and that therefore they didnt act out of accordance with their terms when they 
closed Mr and Mrs Ss accounts.
But it doesnt necessarily follow that because Barclays have acted in accordance with their 
terms that Barclays have also acted fairly. And so, Ive also considered whether I feel its fair 
and reasonable for Barclays to have closed Mr and Mrs Ss accounts as they did.
Upon consideration, I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly by closing Mr and Mrs Ss 
accounts here. I say this because Mr S was using his personal account for business 
transactions, which arent permitted by the terms of that account. And because of this, I feel 
it's reasonable that Barclays would choose to close Mr Ss accounts, including those that he 
held jointly with Mrs S.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr and Mrs S were wanting, but Im satisfied that 
Barclays did have a fair reason for choosing to close their accounts and that Barclays 
provided sufficient notice to them that their accounts would be closing. And it follows from 
this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action 
here. 
I hope Mr and Mrs S will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman