DRN-4293834
The complaint
Mr D has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim he made for storm 
damage under his home building insurance policy. Mr D is unhappy that AXA didnt consider 
his claim under the accidental damage section of his cover. 
What happened
Mr D made a claim to his insurer, AXA for storm damage. He said severe winds caused a 
gas flu chimney cover to blow off from Mr Ds chimney. 
AXA instructed a Surveyor to inspect the damage at Mr Ds home. The Surveyor reported 
that the damage was caused by wear and tear. And AXA said storm conditions hadnt 
occurred at the time the damage occurred. So AXA declined Mr Ds claim. 
AXA said that Mr Ds policy excluded damage caused by wear and tear under the section 
which covers accidental damage.  
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She checked the local 
weather data and didnt find storm conditions had occurred. And without any other evidence 
to contradict the Surveyors opinion, the Investigator thought AXA had reasonably relied on 
their report, the weather data and the policy terms when deciding to decline the claim.  
Mr D didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers provide cover for specific sudden unforeseen events such as storm, flood or fire. It 
isnt unusual for insurers to exclude cover for damage caused by non-insured perils such as 
wear and tear or a gradual decline in materials. 
As AXA declined Mr Ds claim by applying the wear and tear exclusion, Ive looked at 
whether it reached this decision reasonably.
As the Investigator explained, when we look at storm damage claims, we ask three 
questions. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
AXAs policy defines the term storm as;
A period of violent weather defined as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph) (Equivalent to Storm Force 10 
on the Beaufort Scale) or;
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour or;
Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 cm) in 24 hours or;
Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Mr D says severe winds occurred overnight on 5 January 2023 and so he believes his claim 
should be covered as storm conditions led to the damage he claimed for.
Local recorded weather data shows wind speeds peaked at 43 mph. And so there isnt 
evidence that storm conditions occurred. So the answer to the first question is no. 
The Surveyor reported that the cowl showed signs of decay to the grated section. He found 
that the remaining part of the cowl was still in the chimney stack - and that the cause of the 
damage was because of a breakdown in the material. The Surveyor provided clear photos to 
support his professional opinion.
Mr Ds policy with AXA - like most insurance policies - doesnt provide cover for every 
eventuality. It excludes cover for damage caused gradually. AXA says under the policy:
We do not cover the following:
Wear and tear or something that occurs gradually over a period of time)
Mr D says that aluminium doesnt rot or corrode. So he doesnt agree with the Surveyors 
opinion. General checks show that aluminium can corrode. And if there was evidence of 
equal weight to support Mr Ds view, I think AXA should consider that. 
But from the available information to me, I cant say that AXA has unreasonably declined Mr 
Ds claim for storm damage. I think the answer to the second question could be yes, but the 
answer to the first and third questions are no. This means I think AXAs decision to decline 
the claim for storm damage was fair and in line with the policy. 
As Mr Ds policy has a wear and tear exclusion for accidental damage cover, it follows that 
AXA hasnt unreasonably declined his claim under this section of cover. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D. But for the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman