DRN-2455331
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK plc granted a payment holiday on the mortgage he holds 
jointly with his estranged wife, without his knowledge or agreement.
What happened
Mr S and his estranged wife have a joint mortgage with Santander. In February 2020, Mr S 
told Santander that he and his wife were separating and gave it his new address for 
correspondence. He says it told him it wouldnt make any changes to the mortgage without 
consent from both of them.
In early April 2020, Mr S received a letter confirming a payment holiday had been set up on 
the mortgage. He phoned Santander to find out what had happened. Santander told him his 
estranged wife had arranged the payment holiday  although he could reverse it if he made 
payments himself. 
Mr S complained. Santander said it had noted his separation from his wife on the mortgage 
account following his call in February 2020. But, in the light of the Covid-19 situation, it would 
accept a request for a payment holiday from any party to a mortgage  and it wouldnt 
contact other parties to check they agree, even in circumstances where it knew about a 
dispute. Ultimately, it said it wanted to avoid accounts falling into arrears where possible. It 
paid Mr S £30 by way of apology for not having logged his complaint promptly.
Mr S got in touch with us. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. She looked at relevant regulatory guidance and concluded that Santander hadnt 
acted unreasonably.
Mr S didnt accept that conclusion. He felt strongly that he had been treated unfairly when 
Santander knew he was in a vulnerable position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr S was going through a very stressful time following his separation from 
his wife. He was clearly very worried about changes his estranged wife might make to the 
mortgage and had taken steps to try to make sure she couldnt make changes without his 
consent. 
Santander will generally accept instructions from one party to a joint mortgage. Thats 
common practice and is provided for in its mortgage terms and conditions. In this case, 
however, it knew about Mr Ss and his wifes marital dispute. Its records reflect that and that 
it reassured Mr S when he called in February 2020 that Any changes such as new product / 
renewal need both sigs [signatures]. 
Mr S was understandably reassured by that, but then surprised and upset to find out about 
the payment holiday to which he had not agreed. Santander says it had to act quickly in 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic and, in applying online for the payment holiday, Mr Ss 
estranged wife had ticked a box confirming both she and Mr S agreed to the payment 
holiday.
Santander, in common with all mortgage lenders, did have to act quickly following guidance 
issued by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), in response to the Covid-19 
pandemic. That guidance said lenders should offer a payment holiday  or deferral  to 
borrowers if they asked for one, unless it was clearly not in the borrowers best interests to 
do so. 
In practice, the huge numbers of people asking for payment holidays in a short space of time 
meant that lenders simply couldnt carry out detailed checks in each case before granting a 
payment holiday. The FCA made provision for that and said it didnt expect lenders to 
investigate the circumstances surrounding a request for a payment holiday.
So, even though Santander knew about Mr Ss situation, it agreed to the payment holiday his 
estranged wife had asked for. It also knew, however, that Mr Ss estranged wife was the one 
making the monthly mortgage payments.
Had Santander not agreed to the payment holiday, the mortgage may have fallen into 
arrears and so been in a worse position. Santander did also discuss with Mr S the option of 
cancelling the payment holiday  but Mr S wasnt in a position to make the payments 
himself, as he has said he was already transferring money to his estranged wife in order that 
she could pay the mortgage.
In the circumstances, and against the background of the pandemic and a situation where 
Santander had been instructed by the regulator to act quickly to support its borrowers, I dont 
think Santander granted the payment holiday unfairly.
  
In coming to that conclusion, I have read the decision issued by another ombudsman in 
2015 which Mr S has referred to. We consider each case on its individual merits, and Im 
satisfied that the circumstances in Mr Ss case  in particular, the regulatory guidance 
Santander had to consider  are different. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman