DRN-3958141
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his travel insurance claim. My 
references to UKI include its claim handling agents.
What happened
Mr M has travel insurance through his bank account. UKI is the insurer.
Mr M was due to travel abroad with his family group. The airline cancelled the outbound 
flight due to a hurricane. Mr M spoke to the airline and it was agreed to change the outbound 
flight to about a week later although the travelling party had to depart from a different UK 
airport than originally planned. 
Mr M said the airline paid for his car hire to get to the new airport and some of his UK hotel 
costs and told him to claim the rest of the hotel costs on his travel insurance. He claimed for 
the additional costs of his UK hotel stay, including the cost of rooms for his son and parents 
that hed paid for.
UKI declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover the circumstances of the claim.
Mr M complained to us. In summary he said: 
Some others in his travelling party had claimed on their insurance with the same 
bank and had their claims paid so UKI should pay his claim. 
Before he agreed with the airline to move the airport for the outbound flight hed 
spoken to UKI who had agreed it would cover his extra costs. Hed only agreed to 
change the departure airport because UKI had agreed to pay his extra costs. 
Hed paid extra to cover his wifes medical condition and to extend the days he was 
covered but when he claimed UKI told him he had limited insurance. If hed known 
the insurance was limited he would have paid extra to have the claim covered.
Our investigator said UKI had reasonably declined the claim. If Mr M thought the policy had 
been mis-sold hed need to make a separate complaint.
Mr M disagrees UKI acted fairly about the claim and wants an ombudmans decision. He 
added that:
When he spoke to UKI it told him he could claim for the room costs for his son and 
parents if it was his gift.
When he spoke to UKI before he travelled it should have told him the hotel costs 
werent covered rather than say it couldnt guarantee to pay the claim.
He believes UKI didnt pay his claim because the airline paid some of his hotels 
costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I think UKI reasonably declined his claim. Ill explain why 
I dont uphold this complaint but I wont address each point Mr M has made, instead Ill focus 
on why I think UKIs decline of the claim was fair and reasonable. 
Travel insurance policies dont cover all situations a consumer finds themselves in. The 
policy terms and conditions set out what risks an insurer is prepared to cover. So although 
Mr M says he didnt know his policy had limited cover the policy he has with UKI has policy 
terms and conditions which set out what UKI will cover.
Ive had a look at Mr Ms policy with UKI. Mr Ms claim isnt covered under Section A 
Cancelling Your Trip (before you are due to start your trip). The trip was postponed for a 
week rather than cancelled. Mr Ms claim also isnt covered under Section B Delayed Or 
Missed Departure (on the day you are travelling). His flight wasnt delayed on the day he 
travelled. I dont think there are any sections of the policy that cover the claim in Mr Ms 
circumstances. 
Mr M says he would have paid extra to cover the claim. But, unlike the options of him being 
able to pay for cover for some medical conditions and for extended trip days, I dont think 
UKI offer the option to pay for cover in the circumstances of his claim.
Im satisfied that UKI correctly declined the claim under the policy terms and conditions.
Ive also considered whether I could say that on a fair and reasonable basis UKI should pay 
the claim under the cancellation section, on the basis that if Mr M hadnt rearranged the flight 
the trip would have been cancelled. But that section only covers cancellation due to an 
insured event which is listed in the policy under the cancellation section. An airline cancelling 
a flight isnt a listed insured event for cancellation cover. So I cant fairly say UKI should pay 
Mr Ms additional hotel costs under the cancellation section.
Ive also considered whether I could say that on a fair and reasonable basis UKI should pay 
the claim under the delayed or missed departure section, on the basis that Mr M could have 
chosen to abandon his trip due to in effect the week-long delay of his original outbound flight. 
But the policy has an exclusion under the travel delay section which says UKI wont cover:
any claim where the aircraft, ship or train on which you are booked to travel is 
cancelled by the operator.
As the airline cancelled Mr Ms flight that policy exclusion applies. So I cant fairly say UKI 
should pay Mr Ms additional hotel costs under the delay and missed departure section.
Ive listened to the relevant call and UKI clearly told Mr M that it couldnt guarantee the claim 
would be paid but he should submit the claim for its claim team to look at. So before Mr M 
travelled he was aware that UKI hadnt guaranteed his additional costs would be covered. 
Mr M says UKI should have told him straight away in the call that the costs wouldnt be 
covered. But he wasnt speaking to UKIs claims department and I think UKI gave him 
reasonable information in saying that he could make a claim but it didnt guarantee the claim 
would be covered.
Mr M has given us some details about the claim another of his travelling party made, which 
UKI paid. That claim was for different costs than he claimed and the claim circumstances 
werent the same. But even if another of his travel party had their claim for their UK hotel costs paid that doesnt mean UKI has to pay Mr Ms claim as the circumstances of his claim 
arent covered by the policy.
There may be situations where UKI might pay for accommodation costs that were a gift but 
for that to happen the circumstances of the claim must be covered by the policy terms and 
that isnt so for Mr Ms claim.
Its frustrating for Mr M that he had extra costs by changing his UK departure airport but as 
I think UKI fairly and reasonably declined the claim it doesnt need to pay those additional 
costs. 
Mr M might want to contact the airline about his extra accommodation costs as the airline 
has certain obligations under EU261 Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 (EU261) which may 
apply.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman