DRN-2126174
The complaint
Mr M complains about the level of fees he was charged by National Westminster Bank Plc 
when he transferred his ISA to a new plan manager.
What happened
Mr M held an ISA with NatWest which was made up of 54 lines of stock. In 2014 he moved 
his ISA to another plan manager and was charged £20 per line of stock which equated to 
£1,080. He complained to NatWest about the charges, but they didnt uphold his complaint. 
They said, in summary:
The fees were referred to in the NatWest Self Select ISA Your Customer Agreement 
and published in the 'Our charges fact sheet.
They aimed to offer a competitive ISA product and fees were reviewed periodically to 
ensure they remained competitive.
It was important that they continued to offer the ISA service in accordance with the 
terms of the client agreement and published fees.
It was imperative that they treated all clients fairly. Any alterations to the transfer fees 
on an individual and discretionary basis would unfairly impact other clients that have 
paid similar fees.
Mr M brought his complaint to us in 2019. He said that hed transferred his ISA earlier that 
year and the charge per line was lower than what NatWest had charged him in 2014. The 
plan manager had also agreed to reduce the fee from £480 to £200. He felt that NatWest 
were out of line with market practice in charging a high fee per line transferred and not 
agreeing to a reduction in the total fee.
NatWest agreed for us to look into the merits of Mr Ms complaint even though he came to 
us more than six months after they issued their final response letter. The complaint was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt uphold the complaint. He thought, in 
summary:
The charges were clear, fair and not misleading, as per the regulators guidelines.
NatWest had clearly set out the charges that applied when they became Mr Ms ISA 
plan manager. 
Most providers applied similar charges, he didnt think NatWests charges were 
excessive or out of line with common industry practice.
The charge was applied to all customers in similar circumstances, so he didnt think 
NatWest had been unfair.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that he wasnt disputing that the fees were clear and not 
misleading. His contention was that the charges werent reasonable - £1,080 wasnt a fair 
amount to transfer an ISA and charging £20 per line given the economies of scale involved 
was just wrong.
He also thought that NatWest's behaviour was essentially anti-competitive, as the high level 
of the fee acted as a substantial barrier to customers with a high number of holdings who 
wanted to transfer to another plan manager. He made the decision to move, but many other 
customers may have felt that their only option was to remain with NatWest rather than 
moving to a competitor offering a better service.
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion. As theres been no agreement the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint and for broadly the same reasons as 
the investigator. But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me 
to note I very much recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter and Ive carefully 
considered the points hes made.
Mr M has accepted that the charges were clear and not misleading. Therefore, the crux of 
this complaint is if the charges NatWest applied were fair. I appreciate that Mr M thinks the 
charges arent fair, but I think NatWest are entitled to apply charges for work they undertake. 
I accept that the charge per line was £5 higher than that of the plan manager he moved to, 
but that doesnt make it an excessive charge. Its entirely a matter for NatWest  in the 
exercise of their legitimate commercial judgement  to charge fees as well as set reasonable 
rates for any activities that they were instructed to perform. So, Im unable to say that they 
have done anything wrong by charging the amount they did for Mr M to move to a new plan 
manager.
I appreciate that NatWest could have decided to reduce the charge or indeed not to charge 
Mr M anything at all. Theyve said that to do so wouldnt be fair to other consumers who 
have incurred the charge. I dont think this is unreasonable and Im unable to say that it has 
been unfair by applying the fees in the way that it has. 
I note the point Mr M has made about NatWests behaviour being anti-competitive. While we 
take relevant law and regulations and the rules and guidance issued by regulators into 
account, this service is not a regulator. And, while I appreciate there may be others with 
similar concerns, this decision is about the complaint made by Mr M about NatWest. And as 
Ive said above, I dont think the charges were unfair and it therefore follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman