DRN-3489059
The complaint
Mr M complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) didnt automatically reinvest his 
dividends as instructed. 
What happened
Mr M has an execution only share dealing account with HSDL. He gave instructions for 
dividends to be reinvested.
In March 2019, Mr M added a US holding, which Ill refer to as K, to his portfolio. In April 
2021 he realised dividends for K werent being reinvested, despite his on-line account 
showing automatic dividend reinvestment against the line of stock. He wants HSDL to 
compensate him for the loss hes made.
HSDL said that Mr Ms dividend handling option is set to reinvest. But that, because K isnt a 
UK or Irish crest stock, it couldnt reinvest the dividends for this shareholding.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded 
HSDL had acted in line with the agreed terms and conditions and that it couldnt reinvest 
dividends for international securities. She explained this service isnt the regulator, and we 
couldnt ask HSDL to change its terms or processes.
Mr M didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
HSDL was displaying automatic dividend reinvestment next to his K shares and for 
more than two years it didnt contact him to tell him otherwise.
He reasonably believed his dividends were being reinvested.
HSDL should have told him to contact the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) if that was 
the more appropriate service to deal with his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here and Mr M has gone to 
the trouble of calculating the loss he thinks hes made, which I appreciate will have taken 
him some time. But Im not going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, our investigator made reference to the FCA and Mr M has asked why HSDL didnt 
refer him to the FCA rather than us. Our role at the Financial Ombudsman Service is to 
resolve individual complaints between businesses and consumers and to award redress if 
appropriate. And HSDL was obliged to tell Mr M that he had the right to refer his complaint to 
us. But our role is not to improve the industry. I dont have the power to tell a business how it 
should treat all customers or how it develops its internal policies and systems. Thats a 
matter for the FCA, as regulator, of the industry.
Having considered all the evidence and information, I do not uphold this complaint. Let me 
explain why.
HSDLs terms and conditions say:
20.1 You can set up a DRIP [Dividend Reinvestment Plan] by giving us your instruction 
using our online service or the telephone service. Once you have elected to participate in the 
DRIP, all future dividends on eligible investments in your account will be reinvested in the 
same investment under the DRIP until you cancel your instruction.
Im satisfied Mr M chose for dividends to be reinvested. And Im satisfied that HSDL acted in 
accordance with his instruction  all dividends were being reinvested for Mr Ms eligible 
investments.
HSDL has explained that foreign stocks, including K shares, arent eligible for dividend 
reinvestment because, when placing an international purchase, the number of shares has to 
be specified; it isnt possible to invest a specified amount.
And its provided a screenshot to show that when Mr M chose the automatic dividend 
reinvestment option for his account, the screen explained that the automatic reinvestment 
applied to UK and Irish CREST eligible stocks. 
Mr M has told us why dividend reinvestment is important for his investment strategy. And 
I can understand why he may not have realised, or forgot, that his dividend reinvestment 
instruction didnt apply to international shares. Hes also shown us a screen shot of K shares 
in his account which shows the Handling Option as automatic dividend reinvestment. 
Whilst I can appreciate the confusion this may have caused, I cant order HSDL to 
compensate Mr M for the loss he says hes made in not being able to reinvest K dividends. 
Thats because dividend reinvestment is not, and never was, available for these shares. 
During the phone call following Mr Ms complaint, Im satisfied HSDL apologised. And, in the 
circumstances, I cant ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman