DRN-4013199
The complaint
Mr H complains that Landmark Mortgages Limited didnt treat him fairly when he wanted to 
sell his property for less than the outstanding mortgage balance.
What happened
Mr H took out the mortgage in 2006. He borrowed £58,500 (plus fees) on an interest only 
basis over a 35-year term. The property purchase price was £65,000. As part of the 
mortgage, he borrowed a further £11,500 on an unsecured personal loan.
Mr H has said that he moved out of the property in 2015 following his divorce and moved 
into rented accommodation. Hes said he didnt rent out the property for personal reasons 
and so it was uninhabited from that point.
In 2022 Mr H decided to sell the property as his employment situation had changed so he no 
longer had the income he needed to support two properties.
He said he did some market research and decided to sell the property privately to keep his 
costs down. He told us he advertised the property via an advert in the window for offers 
around £65,000 as that reflected the price of similar properties on the market, however he 
felt he was unlikely to meet that price due to the renovations that were needed.
Mr H has said in the four weeks it has been on the market hed received offers of £40,000, 
£45,000 and £50,000  and hed accepted the highest of those, which was a cash buyer.
Landmark sent Mr H a short sale pack, as the £50,000 sale price agreed was less than the 
outstanding mortgage balance. 
There was contact between the parties over the next couple of months until Mr H told 
Landmark the buyer had pulled out due to the time it had taken.
Whilst this had been going on there were issues with the direct debit payment when Mr H 
wanted to change his payment date from the 1st of the month to the end of the month, this 
led to a payment being collected when it shouldnt have been, and a payment not being 
collected towards the unsecured loan.
Mr H has raised more than one complaint with Landmark, and our investigator dealt with 
them under two broad categories:
Landmarks handling of the change of payment date
Landmarks handling of the shortfall sale process
Our Investigator said Landmark is entitled to decide whether to consent to the sale. He said 
it hadnt received all the information it had asked for and it wasnt in a position to make an 
assessment until it had that information. In respect of the direct debit issue our Investigator 
felt Landmarks offer of £100 compensation was enough. Our Investigator also said 
Landmarks offer of £75 for the issuing of an incorrect letter was fair. Overall, he didnt think 
Landmark needed to do anything further.
Mr H didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome.
The short sale
Landmark has a charge on Mr Hs property, which is security for the mortgage debt. Mr H 
cant sell the property unless Landmark releases its charge. Usually, it would release the 
charge when the mortgage is repaid in full. 
Mr H says hes in negative equity  he says the property is worth less than the outstanding 
mortgage balance. He asked Landmark for consent to sell the property for £50,000 when the 
outstanding mortgage balance was just under £60,000. Mr H said hed advertised the 
property privately by way of an advert in the window.
Landmark said it needed a valuation report and it instructed a suitably qualified surveyor  a 
member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. The surveyor gave the property a 
value of £55,000 based on the surveyor inspecting the property and looking at comparable 
sale figures in the area. 
Despite this Landmark was still willing to consider Mr Hs request to sell the property for 
£50,000, albeit Landmark asked Mr H to explore whether he could achieve a higher sales 
price. Its not in the interests of either party for the shortfall debt to be larger than necessary. 
Landmark instructed a suitably qualified surveyor to value the property. I cant see that it was 
unreasonable for it to ask Mr H to explore the possibility of a higher sale price.
Mr H feels he should receive a copy of the valuation report because he was charged for it, 
but the valuation was carried out for Landmarks purposes so it could assess Mr Hs 
application to sell the property for less than the outstanding mortgage balance. It wasnt 
instructed for Mr Hs purposes. Thats not unusual in the mortgage industry, and it was fair 
for Landmark to require Mr H to cover any costs it incurred in assessing his application to 
sell the property for less than the outstanding mortgage balance.
I understand Mr H feels Landmark delayed matters and caused his sale to fall through. But I 
dont agree. The main bulk of the delay was due to Mr H not providing details of his chosen 
solicitor and their estimated costs.
Ive listened to the calls and having done so Im satisfied Landmark didnt tell Mr H that he 
shouldnt find a solicitor until after the application had been approved. The short sale pack 
asked for Mr H to provide details of his solicitor and the costs of that. Whilst Landmark 
recommended Mr H didnt incur any legal costs before the application was agreed, he 
wouldnt have incurred costs if hed just found a solicitor and obtained a quotation from them. 
He didnt need to go as far as instructing them to commence work. Mr H could, at any time, have contacted some legal firms (whether that be solicitors or 
licensed conveyancers) to ask about their estimated costs for undertaking the conveyancing 
for the sale of the property. I think most people are aware they can receive quotations for 
services without committing to proceeding with them.
Landmark sent reminder letters to Mr H on 19 July, 4 August and 11 August saying it needed 
that information and it couldnt continue with the application until it was provided. 
It is unfortunate that Mr H told Landmark on 18 July that he only wanted to communicate by 
post. As Landmark explained in its letter of 19 July, it doesnt recommend post only for short 
sale processes due to the delays it can cause in communication, and this situation 
demonstrates that well. Had Mr H been willing to discuss matters over the phone then I think 
Landmark could have persuaded him to provide the solicitors details it required so the 
application could be progressed. Instead Mr H just responded to the letters saying, 
erroneously, that hed been told not to engage a solicitor until the application had been 
approved.
There is a process that has to be followed with these. Landmark agreed the idea in principle, 
that is, it said it was willing to consider a short sale application from Mr H. So it could 
consider that application it needed a valuation to be completed, and all the information it had 
asked for (including Mr Hs intended solicitors details and estimated costs). Until it received 
all that it wasnt in a position to approve (or not) his application.
Landmark was clear in its letters that it was unable to continue any further forward with the 
short sale process unless it received the solicitors information it had asked for. As Mr H 
didnt provide that I cant hold Landmark liable for his potential sale falling through.
Whilst I can see there are times Landmark could have progressed things in a more timely 
manner, Im satisfied, for all the reasons given, that wasnt the reason why the sale fell 
through.
On 30 August, after the short sale had fallen through, Landmark sent a letter to Mr H. That 
letter was entitled urgent contact and said Please contact us within the next 48 hours on 
the below telephone number, as there is a matter that needs clarifying. The remainder of 
the letter was relevant to accounts in arrears, mentioning arrears administration charges, 
and reporting to credit reference agencies.
When Mr H contacted Landmark it wanted to discuss the possibility of a voluntary surrender 
of the property with him. Landmark has accepted that the wording of the letter wasnt 
appropriate for the situation and offered £75 for that error, and having considered everything 
I feel that is a fair offer and I wouldnt award any more.
The direct debit
It isnt in dispute that things went wrong with the direct debit. Mr H wanted to move his 
payment date from the 1st of the month to the end of the month, but when that was done it 
wasnt suspended for the month in question which led to Aprils payment being collected 
twice  once at the beginning of the month, and then again at the end of the month.
On Landmarks recommendation, Mr H made a claim under the direct debit guarantee for the 
second payment but that led to the unintended consequence of the direct debit being 
cancelled entirely. When it was set back up it was only set to collect the mortgage payment, 
rather than also including the loan payment as it should have done.Landmark has already apologised for the errors, ensured Mr Hs credit file hasnt been 
impacted and offered £100 compensation, so I need to decide if that is enough.
Having considered everything, I agree with our Investigator that Landmark has already done 
enough on this point. I can understand why Mr H was frustrated, but that offer is in line with 
what I would have awarded had Landmark not already offered it.
Summary
Mr H borrowed the money and its reasonable for Landmark to expect him to repay it. 
Landmark said it was still willing to consider a short sale, but that the process would need to 
be started again once Mr H had a new buyer. Mr H would need to complete the process 
correctly, including providing details of his solicitor and their estimated costs, and an updated 
valuation of his property may be required. A short sale is a concession that Landmark would 
be agreeing to and it has the right to fully assess any such application, such as looking at 
whether it thinks a fair price has been achieved.
Id encourage Mr H to remain in contact with Landmark with the aim of exploring ways for the 
property to be sold and the debt repaid, if that is still what he wants to do.
Mr H would like a single point of contact but that isnt something Id order Landmark to 
provide. I understand Mr H isnt experienced in selling property but, as our Investigator 
explained, we wouldnt expect Landmark to step into the void that had been created by Mr H 
choosing to not use the services of an estate agent. I understand Mr H wanted to keep costs 
to a minimum but he may find the services of an estate agent helpful, both in marketing the 
property far more widely than just an advert in the window of the property and also in giving 
him guidance throughout the process. For instance it isnt clear if Mr H already has an 
Energy Performance Certificate (EPC), but it is a legal requirement to obtain one before a 
property is sold, even for private sales. To be clear, Im not giving advice here, and it is 
Mr Hs choice how to proceed. However, if Mr H chooses to continue without an estate 
agent, he needs to be aware that it isnt the responsibility of Landmark to step into that void.
My final decision
Landmark has already made an offer to pay £175 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Landmark Mortgages Limited should 
pay £175 to Mr H (less any amounts already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman