DRN-2652387
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly reduced the
settlement of his motor insurance claim by £3,042, as a result of storage costs.  
What happened
Mr K was involved in an accident on 21 May 2019 which he didnt think was his fault. Mr K
said he looked for Advantages phone number online and called to make a claim. Somehow 
Mr Ks claim didnt progress through Advantage and instead he agreed that an accident 
management company could carry out the repairs to his car. This meant the repairs werent 
carried out by Advantage, but by a separate company who then needed to claim the money 
back directly from the other drivers insurer.
In July 2019 the accident management company said the claim would need to be passed
back to Advantage, as the other drivers insurer didnt think their driver was at fault for the
accident. Advantage took over the claim but said Mr K was responsible for the storage
charges that had accrued while the car was with the accident management companys
repairer. Advantage decided Mr Ks car was a total loss and deducted the storage costs it
had paid out on his behalf from the claim settlement.
Mr K didnt think it was fair that the settlement had been reduced. He said hed claimed
through Advantage and thought it should be responsible for paying any storage costs, as it
had passed him to the accident management company. Mr K complained to Advantage.
Advantage said it wasnt responsible for storage costs, as Mr K had made a separate
agreement with the accident management company that it wasnt party to. And it said it
hadnt referred Mr K to the accident management company. As he was unhappy with
Advantages response, Mr K brought his complaint to us.
Advantage said Mr K had told it about the accident on 28 May 2019. Advantage said at this
point it told Mr K it didnt have his claim recorded and it may be with an accident 
management company. Advantage also said it told Mr K to find out who his claim was with
and let it know.
Mr K provided a copy of his phone records to show hed called Advantage to report the claim
on 21 May 2019. Advantage said it had searched its records but couldnt find any call from
Mr K until 28 May 2019. It added that the accident management company Mr K had been
referred to wasnt the one it would have used if it had referred him to one. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 February 2021. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered whether its most likely Advantage referred Mr K to the accident
management company. Mr K has provided his call records which show he called Advantage
and was on the phone for just over an hour on the morning of 21 May 2019 and for around
30 minutes on the evening of 22 May 2019. Advantage hasnt been able to find any record of
these calls, but it also hasnt provided anything to show it had particularly long waiting times
on those days, which might mean Mr K was on hold and didnt get through and speak to
someone. So, on balance I do think Mr K called Advantage to report his claim on 21 May
2019 and spoke to someone and had further discussions with someone at Advantage on   
22 May 2019.
As Advantage has no record of the calls, its impossible to know what was discussed, but I
do think it had an opportunity to record his claim at this point, but for some reason didnt do
so. However, I dont think Advantage referred Mr K to the accident management company. I
say that because one of our investigators has spoken to the accident management
company. They told us that Mr K was referred to them by a car dealership. Our investigator
called this dealership who told us that it was unlikely Mr K would have been referred by an
insurer. They said what usually happens is that a customer will get in touch with the retailer
they bought their car from and that retailer will refer them to the dealership. So, I think what
most likely happened here is that Mr K called the retailer he bought his car from, as part of
their aftercare service, and that retailer referred him to the dealership. Who in turn referred
him to the accident management company. So, on balance, I dont think Advantage was
responsible for referring Mr K to the accident management company.
I can see from Advantages call notes that Mr K got in touch again on 28 May 2019 after
receiving a letter from Advantages customer service team, which wasnt connected to his
claim. Ive listened to calls from this time and Advantage made it clear it wasnt dealing with
the claim and it established that Mr K was pursuing his repairs on a credit hire basis. From
listening to these calls, I think Mr K understood that Advantage wasnt dealing with his claim,
although I dont think he understood from this call that he could become liable for any costs if
things went wrong. As such, I dont think I can hold Advantage responsible for Mr K choosing
to leave his car with the accident management companys repairer. However, I still think
Advantage should reimburse Mr K for his storage costs and Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy say if the car is damaged Advantage will either pay
for repairs, replace the car or pay the cars market value immediately before the loss. The
policy defines market value as the cost of replacing the car at the time the damage occurred
with one of the same make, model, age and condition.
There doesnt seem to be anything in the policy that allowed Advantage to pay the storage
costs and deduct these from the settlement. So, under the terms of the policy Advantage
should have paid Mr K the market value of his car, less any excess. Advantage said it
deducted the storage costs to enable [the] claim to progress. So, Ive considered this.
Advantages claim notes show that Mr K wasnt happy about paying the storage costs. Yet
Advantage went ahead and paid the storage costs and insisted on deducting them from the
settlement. And I dont think it was appropriate for it to do this or that it was entitled to do so.
They were storage costs Mr K was responsible for and Advantage should have left it to him
to decide what to do about it. I appreciate that - under normal circumstances - on payment of
the total loss settlement the car would have become Advantages, as set out in the policy.
And so, it would have wanted to recover the car from the repairers. But I think that was
something for Advantage to take up with the repairer, as opposed to it just paying the
storage costs without Mr Ks agreement to do so.
I also understand Advantage marked Mr Ks claim as bonus-allowed (non-fault). That means
Mr K should have been able to try to recover any uninsured costs hed incurred due to the
accident as from the third partys insurer. And I think the storage costs were an uninsured
loss Mr K should have been able to look to recover. An excess is also an uninsured loss, so I
would have expected Mr K to be able to try to recover any amount hed paid for storage at
the same time as recovering his excess. If Advantage had helped Mr K to recover hisexcess, I think it would have been good industry practice and so fair and reasonable for it to
have helped Mr K recover his storage costs at the same time. Or if it had referred him to
solicitors, I think it would have needed to let the solicitors know about the storage costs.
Mr K said he got a letter from some solicitors who said they would help him recover his
excess. Advantage said it didnt instruct these solicitors. Our investigator spoke to the
solicitors who said Advantage got in touch with Mr Ks details and told them they needed to
recover their losses for the damaged car as well as Mr Ks excess. Taking this testimony into
account, as well as the fact these are solicitors used by Advantage, I think it was most likely
Advantage who referred Mr K to these solicitors.
The solicitor has told us they didnt need to issue proceedings because Advantage was able
to agree settlement with the third-party insurer. Its not clear what Advantage agreed with the
third-party insurer, but it is clear they made no attempt to recover Mr Ks storage charges for
him. And from what the third-party insurer has said, I think this would now be very difficult for
Mr K to recover this. It seems to me that Mr K is only in this position because Advantage
paid the storage costs without any authority or agreement from him. And I dont think thats
fair.
Therefore, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Advantage to
reimburse Mr K the £3,042 it deducted from his claim settlement for the storage costs. Due
to him not having money he should have had Advantage should add interest to this amount
at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date it settled his claim deducting the storage costs,
to the date it makes payment.
I also think Advantage caused Mr K distress and inconvenience in deducting the storage
costs and him not having the money to replace his car with one of the same following an
accident that wasnt his fault. As such I intend to find that Advantage should pay Mr K an
additional £250 to compensate for his distress and inconvenience. 
Mr K accepted my provisional decision and Advantage didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr K accepted my decision and Advantage didnt respond, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr K:
£3,042 as the amount it deducted in storage costs.
Interest on this amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date it settled his
            claim deducting the storage costs, to the date it makes payment.
£250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr K a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman