DRN-3854139
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund the money he paid for repairs to 
his car. He believes he has been scammed and has lost out as a result. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties and have been 
laid out in detail in our Investigators view, so I wont repeat them all here. But, in summary, I 
understand them to be as follows.
Mr S has explained that in or around October 2021 he was having some problems with his 
car. He carried out some research on the internet and got quotes, from a number of garages, 
for the work to be carried out. Hes told us that one company, who Ill refer to as F,  were 
quoting a cheaper price (£800). Happy with the price, Mr S decided to go ahead and asked 
F to carry out the repairs.
Mr S said as he had no way of getting the car to F, he arranged for it to be delivered there 
by a breakdown service. But after it had arrived, Mr S said F told him the cost of the repairs 
would actually be just under £1,500. Mr S was unhappy with this but decided to proceed. 
Hes said he was told the repairs would take around two weeks, but has said his car wasnt 
returned to him until two months later. On 23 September 2021, Mr S made a payment for 
£1,460 to F for the work carried out.
Shortly after receiving his car back, Mr S said he was still having problems and so it was 
returned to F on two further occasions for repairs, which cost Mr S a further £65 and £85 
respectively. But Mr S told us, when receiving back the car for the third time the problem still 
wasnt fixed and so he decided to take the car to a different garage, where he was told a 
possible engine rebuild was needed. Mr S got some quotes for this work to be carried out, 
including a quote from F, but he decided for the work to be carried out by a different garage, 
as he didnt want F to carry out any further work on his car.
Mr S believes hes been scammed. In summary he said this because he didnt think F had 
carried out the work it said it had, or that it had done so to such a poor standard, that it had 
caused further damage, which resulted in him having to pay more money to put things right. 
Alongside this Mr S said that F didnt have a garage in which to carry out the works, but 
rather the repairs were carried out on a driveway. As well as this, Mr S said Fs website 
uses logos that it shouldnt and, says it is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), which isnt true.
Mr S raised the matter with Barclays, as he believes he has been the victim of an authorised 
push payment (APP) scam. Barclays looked into the concerns that Mr S had raised. It 
considered its obligations under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), of 
which it is a signatory, but it didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It deemed the matter to be a 
buyer/seller dispute between Mr S and the F and as such said the CRM code did not cover 
such disputes.
Mr S then brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into things 
but didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. In summary, she considered this was a dispute between 
Mr S and F, who he had made the payments to, so she didnt think the payments were 
covered under the CRM code.
Our Investigator didnt think the evidence demonstrated Mr S had been scammed. In 
summary, she said this because she couldnt reasonably be satisfied that the works were not 
completed or were completed to such a poor standard that she could conclude its more likely 
than not F intended to scam Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree with our Investigators view. In brief, he maintained that he believes this 
was a scam. As agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Having considered everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Barclays to 
refund the money Mr S sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Mr S was 
hoping for and I can understand why he wants to try and recover this money. But having 
thought about Barclays actions, I am unable to say it has a responsibility for refunding the 
money Mr S sent. I will explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Barclays made 
the payments, it was complying with Mr Ss instructions. At the time, Mr S wanted to pay F 
and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account details. As I 
dont think Barclays acted incorrectly by making the payments, Ive gone on to consider 
whether it should have refunded Mr S for any other reason.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Barclays has signed up to and was 
in force at the time Mr S made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about whether the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payments Mr S made and, in particular, whether Barclays ought to 
reimburse him under the provisions of the CRM Code. But the CRM Code is quite explicit 
that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
 DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our Investigator felt the payment Mr S made formed part of a buyer/seller 
dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code.
Its clear Mr S doesnt think the agreement he entered into with the F went as planned and 
he has not received what he was expecting. And I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly about what has happened. But I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I 
know, that F set out with an intent to defraud him.
In order to conclude that the payments Mr S made were part of a scam, Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied from the available evidence that F was not legitimate and had set out 
to defraud him. But based on what I know, I have not seen sufficient evidence to fairly and 
reasonably establish that F set out with the intent to defraud Mr S. Im also mindful that 
what has happened here doesnt carry the typical hallmarks for a rogue trader type of scam. 
Ill explain why.
Mr S wasnt approached out of the blue and the price of the repairs Mr S wanted carried out 
didnt seem too good to be true, which can often be an indicator that things arent as they 
seem. And it doesnt seem implausible to me that a company will be in a better position to 
provide a quote for repairs after inspecting a vehicle, so I dont think its untypical for a price 
of a repair to change, following an inspection.
Im also mindful here that F was still contactable after Mr S had made the payments, indeed 
Mr S had his car looked at by F on two further occasions, and also asked them to quote for 
engine work it later transpired was needed. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who 
more often than not are not able to be contacted after they have taken a victims money. I 
also say that because, had F intended to scam Mr S, I think it more likely than not it would 
have sort to have gained more from Mr S than it did, from the second and third occasions it 
looked at Mr Ss car. I can see Mr S paid what were quite modest amounts for the work 
carried out on these occasions, but more typically a fraudster will seek to gain as much as 
possible, as soon as possible, from their victims, which doesnt appear to have been the 
case here.
Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship, 
Ive also considered the beneficiary bank, where Mr Ss money was sent. The evidence Ive 
seen from the beneficiary bank doesnt raise any concerns of any other reports of fraud, or 
concerns that the account is being used for anything but legitimate purposes.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said, in that the company said it was authorised by the 
FCA and was using logos on its website that it shouldnt have done and that were 
misleading. There may well have been some sharp practice in terms of how F presented 
itself. But this doesnt automatically mean that it was willingly and intentionally acting 
fraudulently by deliberately setting out to scam Mr S at the time. Questionable sales and 
trading practices are not enough for me to be as sure as I would need to be that F acted 
dishonestly and deceitfully, by taking payments from Mr S in circumstances where it had no 
intention of providing him a service.While I understand Mr S has said he continued to have problems with his car, I agree with 
our Investigator in that there simply isnt sufficient evidence to safely say F didnt carry out 
any work or that the extra work required was attributable to anything F had done. In any 
event, where I find I dont think F set out with an intent to defraud Mr S, the CRM codes 
specifically excludes situations where a customer is dissatisfied with the service they have 
received from a supplier, which Im persuaded is the crux of the matter here.
I appreciate Mr S has said F didnt operate from a garage, rather it carried out repairs on 
its driveway. But I dont agree that the premises F chooses to operate from and the facilities 
it has, in anyway reflects that it set out with an intent to defraud Mr S.
Overall and on balance, I cant safely say this situation meets the high legal threshold and 
burden of proof for fraud. Given this and that the situation doesnt display the hallmarks most 
typically associated with this type of scam, I dont think it was unfair for Barclays to take the 
view that the situation formed part of a civil dispute.
All things considered, on balance, Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant 
fairly or reasonably ask Barclays to refund the money Mr S has lost, as I dont think Barclays 
treated Mr S unfairly when it said the payments he made were not covered by the CRM 
Code.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr S. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I cant fairly or reasonably ask Barclays to refund the money to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman