DRN-3583758
The complaint
Mr D complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) unfairly 
terminated his charge card and recorded a default on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr D had a charge card with Amex that requires the account holder to clear the balance in 
full each month. Mr D has told us his income was impacted by the pandemic and, as a 
result, his charge card fell into arrears. Amex didnt receive a payment for around three 
months. In August 2021 Amex says the arrears meant the account was at the point of being 
automatically closed. Mr D called Amex but was unable to clear the balance in full. Amex 
went on to refer Mr Ds account to a third party business to manage (C). 
Mr D and C agreed a payment plan where by he would make payments of £350 a month. 
The first payment was due on 15 September 2021 and successfully collected. But the 15 
October 2021 payment wasnt collected. Mr D spoke with C and has told us he was advised 
not to worry. A new payment plan was set up with a due date of 15 November 2021. The 
payment was made around a week after the due date. Mr Ds told us the problems came 
about after two direct debit payments unexpectedly failed at his bank. 
Amex took the step of terminating Mr Ds account and recorded a default, backdated to the 
end of September 2021, to his credit file. Mr D went on to raise a complaint. 
Amex didnt agree it had acted unfairly by closing Mr Ds account and recording the default. 
Amex said the account was already in arrears when it was referred to C to manage and 
close to the point of being terminated. Amex also said the step of ending the payment plan 
was taken after two payments werent made on the agreed date.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ds complaint. They thought Amex had dealt with 
Mr Ds case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr D asked to appeal and said hed 
experienced difficulties speaking with C on the phone. Mr D also said hed taken quick action 
to resolve the issue after finding payments had been returned unpaid and that Amexs 
actions were unfair. As Mr D asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has told us the issue was caused by a direct debit failing twice within one month. But 
the first payment failed on 15 October 2021 and Amexs agents, C, reset the plan to collect a 
payment from Mr D on 22 November 2021. And the 22 November 2021 payment was also 
not collected in line with the plan agreed. I think its also fair to note the payment 
arrangements was initiated as a final measure by Amexs agents to try and stop Mr Ds 
account closing. By the point the plan was put in place, there had been arrears on the 
account for around three months. 
As this is a charge card, the credit agreement requires the borrower to clear the balance in 
full each month. And Amex says that once an account is 90 days overdue, it will taken 
measures to terminate the agreement and record a default. Amex sent Mr D various letters, 
including a termination notice, that confirmed its intention to close his account. The 
termination notice required repayment of the outstanding balance in full but Mr D wasnt in a 
position to do that. In my view, Amexs decision to refer Mr Ds account to C was a 
reasonable step to try and reach an alternative to closing his account. But I think its 
reasonable to say the account had already been behind for some months and was on the 
point of closure when that step was taken. That meant there was less room for Amex and C 
to give further forbearance if payments werent made as agreed. 
Mr Ds told us there were problems with the direct debit at his bank and that he had 
difficulties calling C. But the first payment was successfully collected in September 2021 and 
I havent seen anything that indicates Amex was responsible for later payments being 
declined. And whilst I dont doubt C was difficult to speak to, we have a copy of its contact 
notes. And I can see C made various calls to Mr D about the payments before they were 
made up and new payment plans agreed. 
Amex says its agents reset the plan after the first payment failed. But when the payment due 
under the second payment plan failed, Amex took the decision to terminate the credit 
agreement. I know Mr D will feel my decision is harsh, but I think that was fair in the 
circumstances and reflects the account history. Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, but I havent 
been persuaded that Amexs decision was unfair. 
Mr D has queried the September 2021 default date on his credit file as the account didnt 
close until November 2021. Amex says the default was backdated to September 2021 to 
reflect the point the account wouldve been terminated had the payment plans not been 
agreed. Id add that information remains on a credit file for six years. So the earlier default 
date will ultimately drop off Mr Ds credit file sooner. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr D but as Im satisfied Amex dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman