DRN-3733189
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that they were mis-sold a holiday club product and the loan used to 
pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as 
Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr and Mrs L are represented by a 
claims management company which Ill call F. 
What happened
F has explained that Mr and Mrs F agreed in March 1999 to buy membership of a vacation 
club, sold by a company Ill refer to as D. F has described the agreement as a fractional 
owners club. That description generally refers to an arrangement under which individuals 
buy holiday club points which they can exchange for holiday accommodation; they also have 
a beneficial share in holiday property, along with other club members. When the property is 
sold, the proceeds are shared among the members. It can be described as a type of 
timeshare. 
Mr and Mrs L bought additional membership points in September 2001, October 2010 and 
April 2013. The purchase made in October 2010 was funded with a loan from BPF in Mrs Ls 
name.
In March 2019 F wrote to D to say that Mr and Mrs L thought the timeshare product had 
been mis-sold. Their concerns included:
The nature of the fractional ownership arrangements had been misrepresented to them. 
They did not own any property; it was held in trust.
There was no guaranteed date for the sale of any property.
The sale was an investment and was contrary to The Timeshare, Holiday Products, 
Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. 
They had had difficulty in booking holiday accommodation. 
The resorts were not exclusive to club members. 
F said that Mr and Mrs L sought rescission of the membership contract. 
In May 2019 F wrote to BPF with similar concerns. Because BPF had financed the purchase 
of the club membership, F said that it was liable along with D for the misrepresentations 
made. It said too that the commission arrangements between BPF and D had not been 
disclosed to them and that no proper assessment of the affordability of the loan had been 
made. 
When the matter was referred to this service, our investigator indicated that it should not be 
upheld. The events giving rise to the complaint had happened many years before the 
complaint was raised. 
F did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. In 
doing so, it submitted lengthy but generic further arguments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, my role in issuing this decision is to consider the complaint about BPF, not any 
complaint about D. Since the loan was made to Mrs L alone, only she can bring a complaint 
about BPF, so I will refer to primarily to her. 
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the lending was not affordable or that the loan 
was otherwise not appropriate for Mrs L. I note that the loan was repaid in 2012, less than 
two years after it was taken out. It does not necessarily follow from that of course that proper 
checks were carried out or that the loan was affordable.  
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that they had 
cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in October 2010. Mrs L would have known fairly soon after that date if she was 
having difficulty making repayments. She certainly would have known by the time the loan 
was repaid. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to this service 
by no later than October 2016  six years from the date Mrs L took out the loan. Because it 
was not, we have no power to consider it.  
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the membership points bought 
in October 2010. I am satisfied too that the loan was set up as a result of pre-existing 
arrangements between D and BPF and that section 75 could therefore apply, as well as 
section 56.    
The October 2010 loan did not, however, finance the initial purchase of club membership 
points, nor did it finance the purchase of additional points in 2001 and 2013. I note that the 
allegations about what D told Mr and Mrs L about the product relate to events in 1999, not 
specifically to the additional points bought in 2010. For the reasons I shall explain, however, 
I do not believe that point is significant in this case. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
I have summarised the statements which F says induced Mr and Mrs L into entering into the 
fractional ownership arrangement. I do note that, on the face of it, some of the matters about 
which they say they were misled were matters which were included in the contract. In 
addition, they bought additional points on three further occasions  by which time they had 
some experience of club membership. They say that they thought the extra points would 
help with availability of accommodation.  
Be that as it may, under the Limitation Act 2010 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs L into the 
initial contract for the purchase of holiday club membership were made on or before 21 
March 1999. Any misrepresentations in connection with the purchase of membership points 
funded with the loan from BPF were made on or before 6 October 2010. Mr and Mrs L did 
not however raise any complaint until March 2019, more than eight years after the loan. I 
think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against D would be 
outside the relevant time limit in the Limitation Act.  
It is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against D is now out of time under the 
Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under section 
56 and/or section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that 
the claims are time-barred, I think it was.
Section 104A and 104B claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. 
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. The loan was repaid in May 2012, nearly 
seven years before any claim was raised. It seems to me likely therefore that a court would 
conclude that any claim under these provisions of the Consumer Credit Act would now be 
out of time. In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair for me to conclude that BPFs 
response to the claims was unfair. 
I note that F has said that any loan commission should have been disclosed and that D was 
in breach of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010. Given my findings about the time that has passed, I do not need to make any findings 
on those points, but it is not clear that D did pay any commission to BPF in any event. And I 
note as well that the Regulations did not come into force until 23 February 2011, some 
months after the loan was made. 
Conclusions 
In summary, therefore:
The complaint about the credit assessment was brought out of time under our own 
rules, and so I have no power to consider it.
Any claims brought under section 56, section 75 or sections 104A and 104B of the 
Consumer Credit Act are likely to be out of time under the Limitation Act, so it was 
reasonable of BPF to decline to consider them. My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any steps to resolve Mrs Ls complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman