DRN-3238207
The complaint
Mrs A took out a motor insurance policy provided by Tesco Underwriting Limited in 2021. 
Shes represented by her husband, Mr A, who says Tesco misled her in relation to a hire car. 
What happened
Mrs As car was damaged whilst it was parked and unattended. Another driver accepted 
liability. Mr A reported the accident to Tesco on 27 April 2021. He thought the damage to the 
car meant it would be written off  and Tesco agreed.  On the same day, Tesco told  Mr A 
that the policys £600 policy excess had been waived and that Mrs As no claims discount 
would remain intact. Tesco also said that Mrs A may be able to get a replacement car on 
hire from firm B and that firm B would be in contact about that shortly. 
Tesco paid Mrs A for the total loss of her car on 17 May 2021, shortly after Mr A provided the 
documents it required. In the meantime, Mr A had initially declined the hire car from firm B, 
but later he changed his mind and it supplied a car on 11 May 2021. 
 
Mr A complained to firm B on 15 May 2021 that the hire car had a flat tyre. The tyre had to 
be replaced, and firm B charged Mr A £150, which it said was in line with the hire contracts 
terms and conditions.  On 17 May 2021 Mr A complained to Tesco. He thought it had sold 
the insurance policy to Mrs A with benefits, including car hire. But as it hadnt made it clear 
what the consequences of having a hire car might be, he thought the policy was misleading, 
and that Tesco was responsible for the situation. Tesco said car hire wasnt a policy benefit, 
and its resolution to Mrs As complaint to it was to refer the issue to firm B.  
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs As complaint. He didnt think Tesco had explained 
the referral process properly in the calls between its advisors and Mr A in which hire was 
mentioned. He thought had Tesco explained clearly that hire was separate from the 
insurance policy, Mr A would still have accepted the referral. But the investigator thought by 
not explaining the process fully, Tesco had caused Mrs A distress and inconvenience. He 
thought it should pay her £100 compensation.
In response, Tesco said its advisor had told Mr A that firm B would go through all the details 
of firm Bs hire agreement with him. It said Mr A had declined hire at first, due to its potential 
costs, but had then accepted it. It also said that in a later claim, Mr A had asked for a referral 
to firm B. It  thought Mr A was aware of the hire terms and conditions with firm B.  Mr A still 
thought Tesco had misled Mrs A and that the hire contract was Tescos responsibility.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only cover provided in Tescos policy for an alternative vehicle is for a courtesy car from 
one of its approved repairers. But that only applies if repairs are carried out on a damaged 
car. As Mrs As car was a total loss, a courtesy car was never an option. The policy didnt 
offer the option of a hire car, and when the policy was sold to Mrs A, it  wasnt shown 
anywhere in the documents. I dont think the policy was misleading on this issue. 
In a total loss situation, when a damaged car isnt safe to drive (as in this case) a consumer 
will be left without transport until the total loss payment is made and another car is bought 
(or the damaged car can be put back on the road, using the total loss payment).  Most 
consumers rely on their car for transport, so insurers sometimes (if the claim is non-fault) 
refer them to other firms so they can arrange hire (and repairs, if appropriate) outside the 
insurance policy. The external firms recoup their outlay from the other drivers insurer.
We think insurers should make it clear to consumers that external firms will offer their own 
contracts for car hire, based on their own terms and conditions  which a consumer doesnt 
have to accept - and that the insurer wont be liable for any problems arising from the hire 
arrangement. One of Tescos advisors told Mr A that firm B would go through all the details 
of the hire with him, but I think she should have been far more specific. So I have to consider 
whether I think Mr A would have agreed to the referral had he known all the facts. 
In my opinion, its likely he would have done so, given that the alternative would have meant 
Mrs A  was without a car for an open-ended amount of time. Mr A was trying to get a V5 
registration document from the DVLA  which was proving to be difficult. At one point the 
DVLA said it wouldnt process the document until 25 May 2021. In the end, Tesco accepted 
alternative proof from Mr A, but meanwhile, the total loss payment was on hold. When hire 
was offered as an option, Mr A couldnt be sure when that would change. 
There are notes on Tescos file showing that firm B told Tesco Mr A had refused hire initially 
because he was concerned that costs arising from it may be charged to Mrs A. So it looks as 
though firm B must have explained at the start at least some of the circumstances in which 
she  and not the other drivers insurer  would be liable for costs. Firm B also told Tesco 
that its terms and conditions were available before the contract for hire was signed. If Mr A 
thinks firm B didnt explain its terms fully to him, thats a matter for firm B to address. 
I dont think Mr A can show that Tesco is responsible for any loss Mrs A faced as a result of 
the hire agreement with firm B. It was separate from Tescos insurance policy  and I think 
its far more likely than not that Mr A would still have agreed to the referral to firm B had 
Tesco explained it properly in the first place. 
I dont agree with Mr A that Tesco should refund the policy premium, as Mr A has proposed, 
but I think its poor service around the referral caused Mrs A a moderate amount of distress 
and inconvenience. That created some confusion and upset about how it worked and led to 
queries and complaints being made. Mrs A no doubt spent time and effort alongside Mr A in 
putting together the complaint they made to Tesco - which may have been avoided had all 
the details of the referral been clear from the start. 
Tesco didnt offer an apology to Mrs A - and Mr A didnt ask for one when he complained to 
us. Although our investigator thought initially that an apology should be made, later on he 
proposed a sum in compensation as the best remedy. I agree that it would be appropriate, 
as well as fair and reasonable, for Tesco to pay Mrs A £100 compensation.            
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited 
to pay Mrs A £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022. 
Susan EwinsOmbudsman