DRN-3479519
The complaint
Mr G wants Metro Bank PLC to explain why he was given inconsistent information when he 
tried to open an account.
What happened
On 1 November 2021 Mr G went into a branch to open a current account. He saw three 
different advisors during this process and he says they all told him different things about the 
documentation he had brought to support his application  one piece was damaged and so 
rejected, he was later told it would have been okay but he had disposed of it by then; one did 
not show his address and so could not be used and one was out of the date range needed.  
This wasted an hour of his time: he wants to know why he was originally told the damaged 
document could not be used.
Metro was unable to comment on the specific points as the branch staff did not recall Mr Gs 
visit and so could not corroborate his testimony. It apologised that Mr G had not received the 
level of service he expected, but explained that the checks were part of the regulatory 
requirements it has to follow. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said the bank had to complete due 
diligence checks to meet a number of different regulatory requirements, and it is up to the 
bank to decide what documentation to accept, and in what state. Unfortunately as there is no 
supporting evidence available to show Metro acted unfairly or unreasonably she could not 
uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G was unhappy with this assessment. He said the bank did not say it couldnt recall his 
visit, it said it could not corroborate his version of events, but it has never denied he was at 
the branch. He still wants the bank to explain why it wasted his time and he asked for an 
ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a difficult complaint to investigate as the bank has been unable to provide any 
testimony from the branch about what happened. 
Mr G challenged the investigators comments about this. To clarify, in its final response letter 
Metro wrote Having reviewed your case and investigating your concerns with the store 
management team from our Manchester store, we have been unable to corroborate your 
version of events. When it submitted its file to this service it wrote When we initially 
investigated his complaint we approach [sic] the store concerned who regrettably could not 
recall the visit. As such it is difficult to ascertain exactly what happened in store. I dont think 
these are contradictory comments, they both point to the fact Metro is unable to provide any 
statements from its advisors involved as no-one could recall Mr Gs visit.
This means I need to decide if Metro has treated Mr G fairly in the circumstances i.e. where 
he is asking for an explanation as to why he was given different information about the 
acceptability of his documentation  but it has no information as to what happened.
As the damaged documentation that Mr G received different opinions on was destroyed I 
think its reasonable that the bank cant comment now on whether it would have been 
acceptable or not. It has already signposted Mr G to how its account opening process works, 
and the required documentation, as has our investigator  so I wont repeat that here. I also 
dont believe that is what Mr G is complaining about  rather he wants to know why he was 
given contradictory information that ended up wasting his time. And I dont doubt that he has 
provided his honest recollection of what happened at the branch, but with the available 
evidence I cant conclude with any certainty that Metro made an error or treated him unfairly. 
It has no way to review what happened in the branch and so can provide Mr G with no 
explanation, nor in the circumstances is there any merit in me ordering it to. 
It follows I am not instructing Metro to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman