DRN-2185975
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1997 to
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) trading as Halifax mis-sold
them the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.
The policy covered Mr P only, so I have mainly considered his circumstances at the time the
policy was taken when deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr and Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional and gain their consent
before adding the policy to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs P have told us that they werent
aware the PPI had been added to their mortgage. I cant be certain what was said at the time
the PPI was sold, and there is limited information available from the time. But this isnt
unusual considering how long ago the sale took place, and that BoS arent required to keep 
this type of information indefinitely. With the information available I dont have enough to find 
that BoS didnt present the policy as optional, or that Mr P didnt choose to take it out.
I think its likely BoS recommended the PPI to Mr P, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. Mr P has told us he would have been entitled to generous sick pay when he took the 
PPI, so he didnt need the policy. He also had savings and could have relied on his parents 
to help if he was unable to make his repayments. But the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to Mr Ps sick pay, and for longer than he would have received full pay. The policy would 
also have protected Mr Ps savings so they could be used towards other expenses he may 
have had at the time. While I appreciate Mr Ps parents would have wanted to help, their 
ability to would have been dependent on their circumstances at the time, which could have 
changed.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ps circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover. 
So, I think it was right for them.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think Mr P chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for Mr and Mrs P if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr P off taking out the cover.
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs P have said including that they never knowingly 
took PPI, but for the reasons explained above this doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman