DRN-3051329
The complaint
Mr D complains that Specialist Lending Limited, trading as Duologi, have refused to refund 
his training course fees.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr D made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr D didnt make payments towards his loan in 2019. The business sent him reminders that 
arrears were building up on his account and in October 2019 they warned him that if the 
account wasnt brought up to date it would be defaulted. As payments werent received the 
account was defaulted and the agreement was terminated.
The course provider subsequently went out of business around 1 August 2020. The letter 
they sent to Mr D explained that to secure a potential refund he should contact Duologi 
who could assist on a case by case basis.
In Mr Ds case Duologi noted the account had been terminated in 2019. They therefore didnt 
think they needed to refund all the money Mr D had paid towards his agreement as he hadnt 
been deprived of an opportunity to complete his training by the suppliers liquidation.
Mr D has explained that his training stopped with the supplier in August 2019 when he had 
cause to raise a complaint with them. Ive read Mr Ds account of that complaint and can 
understand the circumstances would have been distressing and as the complaint suggested 
some racial discrimination there may have been actions that would have suggested an 
earlier breach of contract. But whilst Ive seen evidence that Mr D was unhappy with his 
training, I have not seen evidence that there was an agreement to suspend payments or to 
cancel the training and as the supplier is no longer in business it is not possible for Duologi 
to clarify matters with them.
In the absence of any further information I think Duologis actions here have been 
reasonable. Theyve agreed to settle the balance on the account but Im not asking them to 
take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman