DRN-3171383
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the problems shes had with a bathroom she bought using a fixed sum 
loan agreement from Ikano Bank AB (publ). She brings the claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In March 2019, Mrs L had a new bathroom supplied and fitted by a company Ill call T. The 
bathroom and its fitting were financed by a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano.
 
From the start, Mrs L wasnt happy with how the bathroom had been fitted. Amongst other 
things, this included problems with the plastering, the fitting of the door, the radiator and 
damage to coving.
 
Mrs L has told us that, after some months, most of the issues were sorted out by T. But she 
also told us that, during these repairs, a leak was discovered above the bathroom ceiling. 
Mrs L says this has led to numerous problems including, but not limited to, mould damage 
throughout the house, damage to the downstairs toilet, cracks on the outside of the building 
and damage to the chimney flashing.
 
Mrs L raised this issue with Ikano. But it rejected her complaint. It said T wasnt responsible 
for the damage as it wasnt caused by work within the original contract to buy and fit the 
bathroom. Instead, Ts position was that the damage was caused by separate work to her 
downstairs toilet that Mrs L had paid the fitters to do.
 
Mrs L brought her complaint to our service. She sent us a report stating the leak was caused 
by a condensing pipe coming out of the soil stack after it had been twisted. One of our 
investigators looked into Mrs Ls case. His initial thoughts were that there wasnt enough 
evidence to show whether the soil stack was turned because of the contracted work to the 
bathroom carried out by T and financed by Ikano, or the work to the downstairs toilet that 
Mrs L had done separately.
 
Mrs L sent us another report stating that T was to blame for the damage. In a call with our 
investigator, the person who did the report told us it wasnt possible for the soil stack to have 
been turned as a result of the work to the downstairs toilet. With this in mind, the investigator 
told Ikano he felt it was its responsibility to facilitate the repair of the damage caused by the 
leak. He also sent Ikano copies of both reports.
 
Mrs L accepted our investigators findings. We didnt get a substantive response from Ikano. 
In an effort to resolve things informally I set out my initial thoughts to Ikano. In brief, I was 
satisfied the damage was caused by the works Ikano had funded  as such, I was minded to 
direct Ikano to appoint a contractor to remedy the damage.
 
Mrs L accepted my initial thoughts. Ikano didnt respond. As the matter remains unresolved, 
Ive moved to issue this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: given the issues Mrs L has had with the bathroom, does Ikano need 
to do anything to put things right? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
When reaching my decision, Im required to take into account relevant law. Here, this 
includes section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75), and the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA 2015). S75 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Ikano 
is jointly liable for any breach of contract by the supplier, T. Im satisfied those circumstances 
apply here. 
But I would make it clear that Ikanos liability here only extends to those goods and services 
bought using its finance. So, the crux of this complaint is whether the leak and subsequent 
damage was caused by the contractual work carried out by T and financed by Ikanos loan 
agreement or, if it was caused by work carried out separate to this. 
The CRA 2015 implied a term into Mrs Ls contract with T that the bathroom should be of 
satisfactory quality and fitted with reasonable care and skill. There doesnt seem to be much 
dispute that a leak was caused by the soil stack being twisted which, in turn, caused a 
condensing pipe to come out of the socket on the soil stack and caused the leak. So, what I 
need to decide is whether this soil stack was turned as part of the bathroom installation or, 
as Ikano contends, by separate work carried out to Mrs Ls downstairs toilet. 
Mrs L has given us two reports about the leak. Both have been shared with Ikano. The first 
stated, as Ive outlined above, the leak was caused by the soil stack in the loft space above 
the bathroom being twisted, causing a pipe to come loose. But this report didnt give details 
of why the soil stack was twisted round. 
The second report concluded that T were fully to blame for the damage to the property. In a 
conversation with our investigator, the person who did the second report was adamant that it 
wouldnt have been possible for the soil stack to have been twisted as part of the separate 
work to the downstairs toilet. 
Notwithstanding the above two reports, Ive also looked at the photos Mrs L has sent to us 
along with her contract with T. I can see from the photos of the downstairs toilet that its in a 
standard room and, as is fairly typical, theres not much room either side of it. Its hard to 
imagine any work being carried out that would have needed a soil stack to be moved. 
Indeed, theres not really any scope or need for the actual toilet to be moved at all. 
On the other hand, Ive looked at photos of the upstairs bathroom from both before and after 
T carried out the installation. Originally, the bathroom toilet was positioned about a metre to 
the right of where it is now. I can see from the contract plans, and the later photos, that as 
part of the bathroom installation, the bathroom door and the toilet were moved to the left, 
with a new shower enclosure being fitted where the toilet was located before. It seems to me that, on balance, a relocation of the upstairs toilet to facilitate the new 
bathroom layout, is much more likely to have led to the soil stack being twisted round than 
any work downstairs where the position of that toilet hasnt changed. 
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied  again on balance - the soil stack was 
twisted round, and a leak was caused as a result, as part of the contractual work carried out 
by T and financed by Ikano. Due to this, it follows that Im also satisfied that Ikano has a 
responsibility to put things right.
Putting things right
Im satisfied the most suitable remedy here is for Ikano to arrange for the damage caused by 
the bathroom not being fitted with the necessary reasonable care and skill to be repaired. 
Quite understandably, Mrs L has lost faith in T and doesnt want it to carry out any further 
work on her house.
 
With this in mind, I think Ikano needs to appoint a suitably qualified building contractor, other 
than T, to repair all the damage to Mrs Ls property that is directly attributable to the leak 
from the soil stack.
My final decision
My final decision is that Ikano Bank AB (publ) should instruct a suitably qualified 
independent building contractor to remedy all the damage to Mrs Ls property that is directly 
attributable to the leak from the soil stack.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman