DRN-4354759
The complaint
Mr M and Miss M complain about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of their travel insurance 
claim. They dont think the settlement its paid is fair.
What happened
In late 2022, Mr M and Miss M went on holiday abroad. They flew into one city (City A) and 
spent some time there. They had planned to fly to another city (City B), but their internal 
flight was cancelled by the airline. Mr M and Miss M booked another flight for a few days 
later but this was also cancelled. 
Mr M and Miss M werent able to fly to City B until nine days later than theyd planned. As a 
result, they were unable to use accommodation, transfers and activities theyd paid for. They 
also incurred additional costs for accommodation, food and entertainment in City A and had 
to pay for another flight to City B. So, they made a claim under their travel insurance policy 
with UKI.
UKI said it would pay Mr M and Miss M a total of £500 to settle the claim, as this was the 
maximum the policy covered. Mr M and Miss M raised a complaint with UKI. They thought 
their claim should be covered under a different section of the policy. However, UKI 
maintained its position. So, Mr M and Miss M asked our service to consider the matter.
Our investigator didnt think Mr M and Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. He was 
satisfied that UKI had settled the claim fairly, in line with the policys terms.
Mr M and Miss M disagreed with our investigators outcome. They commented on why they 
felt the claim should be covered under the abandoned departure section of the policy. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr M and Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
UKI says it could only consider Mr M and Miss Ms claim under the delay benefit section of 
the policy. 
This says:
We will pay £10 per insured person after the first two hours and an additional £10 every 
following four hours up to a limit of £250 if you have arrived at your point of departure or 
connection and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed. You must have already 
checked in.
I understand UKI paid Mr M and Miss M £500 to settle their claim, which is the most its 
required to pay under this section of the policy.
Mr M and Miss M strongly believe that UKI should have considered their claim under 
abandoned departure. 
The policys terms and conditions say:
Abandoned Departure (outbound only)
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if you 
choose to abandon your trip on your outward journey at your point of departure because 
your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is:
1. Delayed by more than 12 hours (6 hours for a trip of four nights or less) beyond the 
departure time shown on your travel ticket on your outward journey.
2.Cancelled following a delay and your transport operator is unable to provide you with 
a replacement from your point of departure within 12 hours of the original departure 
time on your outward journey
Trip is defined as a journey that begins and ends at your home during the period of 
insurance that is:
Outside the UK.
Within the UK, where you are staying in pre-booked commercially operated 
accommodation for two or more consecutive nights.
Mr M and Miss M have commented that they believe the policys definition of point of 
departure includes the airport in City A. And they dont agree that outward journey could 
only apply to their flight from the UK. They dont think its fair that their trip between City A 
and City B could not be covered for abandonment or for the extra cost of travelling to City B 
another way, whichever is lower. 
I appreciate Mr M and Miss M strongly believe their claim should be covered under the 
abandoned departure section of the policy. However, Im satisfied that this section only 
applies if the whole trip is abandoned due to delays or cancellation of transport for the 
outward journey. Mr M and Miss M would only have been able to claim under this section if 
their outbound flight from the UK had been delayed for more than 12 hours or cancelled. 
Mr M and Miss M were already on their trip when their internal flights were cancelled, so Im 
not persuaded that UKI is required to settle their claim under this section of the policy.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr M and Miss M. I understand the cost of their 
holiday increased significantly as a result of whats happened, and I empathise with them. 
But unfortunately, these additional costs arent covered by the policy. Im satisfied that UKI 
has settled their claim in line with the policys terms and conditions. So, I dont require UKI to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr M and Miss Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman