DRN-1834132
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained to us that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in or around March 2002.
He says he didnt know hed bought the policy. 
What happened
Mr S bought the PPI to be used with a credit card he was also taking out.
Our adjudicator thought Mr S had been mis-sold the policy. This was because hed had a 
medical condition that couldve made it difficult for him to make a successful claim on the 
policy. Because Tesco disagreed with our adjudicator, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
Tesco has already made an offer to Mr S for the profit share and commission it received 
from selling him PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having considered everything, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint for the same reason as our 
adjudicator.
Ive seen that Mr S bought the policy by post when he applied for the card. Tesco says that it 
didnt make a recommendation to Mr S about buying the cover from what Ive seen that 
seems to be the case. But Tesco still had to make sure that the information it gave Mr S 
about the cover was clear and not misleading so that he could make an informed choice 
about whether to buy it.
Ive also seen that Mr S decided to buy the policy by ticking a box on the postal application 
form.
It also looks as if Mr S was eligible for the cover. But, like our adjudicator, I have some 
doubts about whether the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr S. Thats because he has a 
medical condition that, from what Ive seen, would have made it difficult for him to make a 
successful claim on the policy. Hed already had the condition for more than 10 years when 
he took out the policy, taking medication on an ongoing basis and having to regularly seek 
medical advice for it. Ive had a look at the policy terms. They say that a customer cant make a claim for a 
condition for which they went to a doctor, or for which they received advice, treatment or 
counselling in the 12 months before the policy started, whether or not it led to time off work. 
And it says that at the beginning of a list of exclusions. But its not highlighted and its written 
in small print on the fourth page of the policy terms. So its not something that Id have 
reasonably expected Mr S to have seen at the time he decided to buy the PPI, even if he did 
have the opportunity to fill out his application at home.
Keeping in mind that Mr S bought the policy by post, I think Tesco needed to make sure that 
its exclusions were bought to Mr Ss attention. It seems to me, having looked at the policy 
terms, that it didnt do enough to bring this exclusion about pre-existing medical conditions to 
Mr Ss notice.
Its always possible that this failing wouldnt have changed Mr Ss mind about buying the 
PPI. But Ive kept in mind that Mr Ss had a significant deterioration in his health since he 
took out the PPI which is related to his medical condition. So I dont think I can safely say 
that Mr S wouldve taken out the policy if hed known hed be unlikely to make a successful 
claim for his condition.
Ive seen that Tesco asked Mr S to provide evidence of his condition, which he has now 
done. Ive reviewed this information and I am satisfied that as things stand, its likely that the 
PPI would only have been of very limited use to Mr S, had he needed to make a claim on the 
policy.
 It follows that Im upholding Mr Ss complaint in full, with the exception of the refund of 
commission and profit share that that Tesco has already offered him. 
Putting things right
Tesco should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Tesco should find out how much Mr S would have owed when his credit card account was 
closed if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Mr S owed when the account was 
closed and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI. If Mr S made a successful claim 
under the PPI policy, Tesco can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes 
him.
B.Tesco should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr S would have owed 
when his account closed until he gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.*
C.If  when Tesco works out what Mr S would have owed each month without PPI  Mr S 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, Tesco should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr S wouldve 
owed Tesco something on his credit card. 
D.Tesco can deduct the amount they paid to Mr S for commission refund, but only if this has 
already been paid.
E.Tesco should tell Mr S what its done to work out A, B and C.* HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
must pay him compensation in line with the redress Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman