DRN-4468894
The complaint
Mr M has complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim under a 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr M contacted Aviva to send an engineer to deal with a leak. An engineer visited and 
drained the tank down to a safe level and left. However, the tank leaked again, so another 
engineer visited the following day. He also removed a copper tank from the property.
Mr M complained to Aviva. He said the first engineer asked Mr M to help him with the tank, 
which had affected his health. The second engineer had also visited on his own and then 
had to call another engineer to help him. When Aviva replied, it said the works werent 
correctly completed during the first visit and the policy said Aviva would provide a full 
service. It offered £300 compensation. It also said that the health issues might be better 
dealt with as a personal injury claim and suggested Mr M seek legal advice, including about 
how to present a claim to Aviva.
When Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator said he thought the way Aviva has 
responded to the complaint was fair in the circumstances. Following this, Mr M raised some 
points he didnt think had been properly addressed in his complaint. So, our investigator 
discussed these with Aviva. Following this, Aviva offered £108 as the scrap value for the 
copper tank that was removed. Aviva also confirmed that it wouldnt remove a wooden frame 
from the loft as that would be considered private work. It said it didnt have reason to think it 
was unsafe to leave it there, as it was safe when it had a tank on it and that had now been 
removed.
As Mr M didnt agree this fairly addressed his complaint, it was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Aviva responded to the complaint, it accepted that the policy covered providing a full 
service under the policy. It recognised the impact on Mr M of an engineer asking for his help 
when it offered £300 compensation. It also suggested a route to raise a claim against Aviva 
because of the health issues he had raised. Ive also looked at the medical documents Mr M 
provided to this service. I can see he has a range of medical issues, but didnt see anything 
that was specifically noted to be the result of Avivas visits. In my view, the way Aviva 
responded to this part of the complaint was reasonable and addressed the issues raised. It 
recognised the impact on Mr M of how the visits were dealt with and also outlined a further 
option if Mr M decided there was a more significant medical impact that needed to be 
addressed.
Mr M was also concerned about other aspects of how the claim was dealt with. An engineer 
removed the copper cylinder from Mr Ms loft. Aviva has now confirmed the engineer 
shouldnt have done this, as its disposal company should do this. While the complaint was 
with this service, Aviva offered Mr M the scrap metal value of the copper. It explained this 
was between £3.50 and £6 per kilogram and an average cylinder weighed 15 to 18 kilos. I 
dont have any expertise on how copper is valued, but based on looking at information online 
these figures appear to be reasonable. I also note that Aviva made its offer based on the 
upper end of these figures. So, it assumed the higher cost of copper and the upper end of 
the cylinder weight. Mr M has said he had been told the copper would be worth considerably 
more than this, at around £600-£700, if he sold it himself. However, I havent seen evidence 
to show the copper was worth the amount Mr M thought he could have sold it for. So, I think 
the amount Aviva offered was reasonable and that it should pay Mr M this amount.
Mr M was also concerned about the amount of time it took to remove the remaining tanks 
from his loft and that it didnt remove the wooden frame. Im mindful that the copper tank 
shouldnt have been removed when it was, as it should have remained in the loft until 
arrangements could be made for the waste to be removed. However, Aviva looked at why 
the old tanks werent removed at the time of the engineer visits. It explained to this service 
that although the copper cylinder could be removed through the loft opening, the old tanks 
needed to be fully drained and cut up and couldnt be removed until this happened. So, from 
what I can see, for practical reasons, the old tanks remained in the loft for longer. I can 
understand Mr M would have liked this to happen sooner, but I dont consider Avivas actions 
unreasonable.
In terms of the wooden frame, Aviva issued a separate response to Mr M about this part of 
his complaint. It said it was unable to remove the wooden frame as this would require a 
carpenter, which would be private work not covered by the policy. It said a plumber wouldnt 
be able to determine if any of the frame was structural. It also said it didnt consider it to be 
unsafe to leave the wooden frame in the loft. The frame previously supported a water tank, 
which had now been removed. Aviva has also explained to this service that the policy is 
designed to deal with plumbing and a wooden frame isnt part of the plumbing. In the 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable that Aviva didnt remove the wooden frame, as I 
cant see that it was required to remove it under the policy.
Im aware Mr M was also concerned about issues such as damage to his ceiling and some 
copper piping that was removed. He would need to raise these with Aviva so it can consider 
these points. Im unable to comment on them.
Putting things right
Aviva should pay £108 for the copper and the £300 compensation it offered, if it hasnt 
already paid it.My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 compensation and £108 for 
the copper to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay a total of £408 if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman