DRN-4027427
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled and settled a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B purchased a household insurance policy via an insurance broker. This policy 
is provided by AXA and covers the period from 20 August 2021 to 20 August 2022.
Mr and Mrs B say their external wall and an outbuilding suffered significant damage following 
a storm that happened between 25 and 29 November 2021. They were away from their 
property at the time but reported the damage promptly on returning home.
AXA recorded the claim and appointed a surveyor to attend Mr and Mrs Bs property and 
provide an opinion on the cause of damage. Ill refer to this agent as C.
C visited Mr and Mrs Bs property on 19 January 2022 to undertake an inspection. After this 
visit C submitted images and a report to AXA. But this didnt happen until 10 March 2022. 
So, there was a delay of just under 2 months in C notifying AXA of what it thought had 
caused the damage it had seen.
When C reported to AXA on the cause of damage, it stated that it couldnt validate the claim 
for the outbuilding as this structure had been removed prior to the inspection. So, it couldnt 
confirm whether the damage had been caused by a storm. C also told AXA it thought the 
wall had suffered age related wear and tear and that the adverse weather conditions had 
merely highlighted its pre-existing condition. 
AXA declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim based on Cs opinion  it said it couldnt progress the 
claim for damage to the outbuilding due to its removal. And it repudiated the claim for the 
wall as it said the storm wasnt the dominant cause of the damage because this was wear 
and tear related, which was excluded by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with how AXA proposed to resolve their claim and complained. 
They said their neighbours had suffered property damage during the same storm. They also 
disputed Cs opinion on the cause of the damage, stating that the condition of the wall was 
good as it had been inspected and maintained just months prior to the damage occurring. Mr 
and Mrs B argued that theyd had no option but to remove the outbuilding due to health and 
safety concerns and that the outcome of their claim shouldnt be prejudiced by that.
AXA investigated Mr and Mrs Bs concerns but maintained its stance that the damage to 
their wall wasnt caused by a one-off storm event as was required by their policy. And it said 
it couldnt assess the damage to the outbuilding because this had been removed prior to Cs 
site inspection. It therefore didnt uphold their complaint about the way it had settled this 
claim. However, it recognised there had been a delay in C reporting its findings following its 
site visit to Mr and Mrs Bs property and paid £100 compensation to acknowledge that delay.
Being dissatisfied with how AXA had dealt with their complaint Mr and Mrs B referred it to 
our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and initially concluded that AXA 
hadnt acted unfairly in repudiating the entire claim. They thought there was evidence of age-
related wear and tear to the wall and thought this was the dominant cause of damage. They 
also agreed with AXAs stance that the outbuilding claim couldnt be assessed as the 
building had been demolished prior to the site visit taking place. And they thought the 
compensation paid for delay was fair and reasonable.
AXA agreed with our investigators assessment of this complaint. But Mr and Mrs B didnt. 
They agreed that the compensation was fair and reasonable. But they provided a previously 
unseen report to our service from a company, which Ill refer to as P. This report showed 
that P had inspected Mr and Mrs B property before and after the storm and they said it 
supported their view that the outbuilding and wall had suffered damage due to the storm.
Our investigator reassessed the claim with the new evidence in mind and was persuaded 
that the report demonstrated the wall had been in a good state of repair just months before 
the storm. They therefore thought adverse weather was the most likely reason for the 
damage that had occurred and asked AXA to settle the claim for damage to the garden wall 
in Mr and Mrs Bs favour. But their opinion regarding the claim for the outbuilding remained 
unchanged. So, they said AXA didnt need to pay that part of the claim.
Both AXA and Mr and Mrs B rejected our investigators second view of this complaint and 
asked for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mr and Mrs B and AXA that, in 
considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here.  
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr and Mrs B and 
AXA for the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all 
the information provided and if I havent specifically referred to a point made it isnt because I 
havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues namely 
whether AXA acted reasonably in handling and determining this claim.
Our investigator recommended partially upholding this complaint because they were 
persuaded that a storm was the dominant cause of damage for the wall. However, they were 
satisfied that AXA had acted fairly in declining to progress the claim for the outbuilding 
because it had been demolished prior to Cs site visit. So, the cause of damage couldnt be 
assessed. Our investigator was also persuaded that the compensation awarded to Mr and 
Mrs B as a result of the delay in C providing its report was fair and reasonable.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Mr and Mrs B accept our investigators 
conclusions regarding the compensation paid for delay. So, Im not intending to comment on 
that part of the complaint within this final decision. Ill concentrate my comments on whether I 
think our investigator reached a sound and defensible conclusion that the garden wall was 
damaged by a storm and whether AXA acted fairly in declining to assess the claim for the 
outbuilding.Ill start with the claim for the outbuilding, which Mr and Mrs B state was damaged by a storm 
in late November 2021.
Ive had sight of the report from C, which includes images taken of the outside of Mr and Mrs 
Bs property and grounds. Its clear from the content of Cs report and the images that the 
outbuilding was demolished prior to the site visit taking place. 
Mr and Mrs B say the outbuilding was removed due to concerns relating to health and 
safety. However, demolishing a structure that was the subject of a claim meant that an 
inspection wouldnt be able to take place. So, demolition prejudiced AXAs ability to progress 
the claim by removing its opportunity to assess the damage. 
I have no doubt that, if Mr and Mrs B had contacted AXA to ask whether they could remove 
the outbuilding prior to Cs inspection, it would have instructed them to leave the structure in 
situ in whatever condition it was in. I agree with our investigators view that our service cant 
fairly direct AXA to settle a claim for something it wasnt afforded the opportunity of 
assessing.
Mr and Mrs B have provided our investigator with an image depicting part of the damaged 
outbuilding. Theres corrosion present, which isnt something caused by a storm. Its age-
related wear and tear damage. This demonstrates that, its more likely than not, the structure 
wasnt in good condition prior to the storm. However, I cant comment further than this on the 
outbuilding due to the limited visual evidence available. So, the image our service received 
doesnt take the assessment of this complaint any further forward.
Turning to the external wall, theres no dispute that damage occurred to this structure. 
However, theres disagreement as to the cause of the damage and the correct outcome of 
this part of the claim.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy with AXA provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that 
might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for a 
claim to be successful, the onus rests on Mr and Mrs B to show that the damage to their wall 
was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr and Mrs Bs complaint with these three questions in mind. The 
answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend that 
a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr and Mrs Bs policy defines the word 
storm. Ive noted that definition but, here, I dont need to consider whether the weather 
recorded at around the time the damage occurred meets the policy definition because, AXA 
doesnt dispute there were storm conditions in Mr and Mrs Bs locality in late November 
2021. So, I can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. Like our investigator, Im satisfied that damage to an 
exterior wall is something that could be expected following a storm. So, Im able to answer 
this question affirmatively.Ill turn now to the issue of whether I think the storm was the main cause of the damage in 
this instance.
In support of their claim, Mr and Mrs B have provided a report from P who appears to have 
over 45 years experience in building repairs. So, Im satisfied P is suitably qualified to offer 
an opinion on the potential cause of damage to a structure such as, here, an external wall.
P inspected the wall in August 2021 as part of restoration works that were to be undertaken. 
The inspection was about 3 months prior to the storm. Ps report documents a thorough 
inspection of the wall and, like our investigator, Im persuaded that before the storm the 
external wall was in sound structural condition. 
Ps report confirms that the pointing in general was good. The only concern was the 
decorative finish of the wall, which Im satisfied wouldnt have compromised the structure of 
the wall as no remedial work was recommended or necessary. If thered been any concerns 
regarding wear and tear, Im persuaded that these would have been documented given such 
a detailed report.
P inspected the wall again, this time following the storm. So, P was able to compare the 
condition of the wall pre and post storm. Having done so, it assessed that the way in which 
the wall collapsed was consistent with storm damage because a wall failing due to age 
related wear and tear would bulge and slump. These are things that would happen gradually. 
If the wall had been deteriorating gradually, as C believes it was, Id expect bulging and 
slumping to have been present when the wall was inspected by P prior to the storm. 
However, this wasnt observed and I think this supports the view that the wall was in sound 
structural condition prior to the storm.
Based on Ps report, I think AXA should settle the claim for damage to the wall in Mr and Mrs 
Bs favour. Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the dominant cause of damage was 
due to the storm. Ps opinion on what caused the wall to fail discredits Cs view that the 
damage was due to age-related wear and tear. So, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B have 
shown that the damage to their wall was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy. 
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint in part and directing AXA to 
settle Mr and Mrs Bs claim to for the damage to their wall. 
Putting things right
In order to resolve this complaint, Im directing AXA Insurance UK Plc to settle Mr and Mrs 
Bs claim for the damage to their wall.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Im directing AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
resolve this complaint by settling Mr and Mrs Bs claim for damage to their external wall.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman