DRN-3209761
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that key information provided by Investec Bank PLC trading as 
Investec Structured Products  referred to as Investec  was unclear, therefore they were 
mis-sold their investments. 
What happened
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs H invested £10,000 each in a separate FTSE 100 3 Year 
Defensive Deposit Plan 4 (collectively referred to as the plans), which were due to mature 
on 10 May 2021. They invested on a non-advised basis. 
The plans were designed to repay the initial deposit and deliver a return provided that the 
FTSE 100 didnt fall by 10% or more over the term of the plans. Therefore, Mr and Mrs H 
would receive a 10% return, if the FTSE 100 was higher than 90% of its starting level on the 
final maturity date. 
In other words, if on the final maturity date, the FTSE 100 is equal to or lower than 90% of its 
starting level then the consumer will only receive back their initial deposit with no return. 
In May 2021, Mr and Mrs H complained that the Key Information Document (KID) for the 
plans didnt explain the details correctly. They said the KID didnt make clear that the final 
return was based on an average growth of the FTSE 100 at the end of the term. 
Investec didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said the KID was designed to be read 
alongside the Plan Brochure, which made clear that it would use averaging in order to pay 
the final return  using the average growth of the FTSE 100 over the last three-month period. 
Investec also said that Mr and Mrs H signed documentation to confirm theyd read and 
understood the KID and Plan Brochure.
Unhappy with Investecs response, Mr and Mrs H referred the complaint to our service. 
  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
This was a non-advised sale. 
Mr and Mrs H submitted their application forms with the assistance of their 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) for which he was paid £50. 
The IFA confirmed that the KID was provided, and that no advice was given in line 
with the Plan Brochure. 
On page three of the application form, Mr and Mrs H also confirmed the following 
declaration:
oI have read and understood the Key Information Document and Plan 
Brochure(s), including plan risks and selling restriction, and the Terms and 
conditions under which the Plan(s) will be managed.
Its unlikely the KID and Plan Brochure werent provided, if they didnt read through 
the documentation  and didnt seek clarification  its not something Investec can be 
held responsible for.  
The information in the KID and Plan Brochure is clear and transparent and the latter 
makes clear the issue of averaging.  
On a separate note, Investec accepts that it erroneously wrote to Mr and Mrs H with 
incorrect information about a different matter. It has offered to pay them £200 
compensation each for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the investigators view. In short, they said: 
The information was contradictory, and therefore Investec isnt treating its customers 
fairly. 
Investec has put its own profits before its customer protection.   
They still believe their FTSE 100 index closed above 90% given the starting point. 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matte has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs H say, Im unable to 
safely say that the business behaved unreasonably. 
On balance, Im satisfied that the information referred to in the KID  read alongside the Plan 
Brochure  is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs H and Investec, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, on balance, it seems that the plans in question were taken out 
on a direct basis. In other words, they were sold without financial advice, despite assistance 
from an IFA. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H bought the plans of 
their own volition, by filling out an application form and as a result, Im unable to consider the 
suitability of it. Whether or not the plans were right for Mr and Mrs H given their age and financial 
experience is not something I can consider. I believe the onus was on them to make sure 
that the plans were suitable for their circumstances. For example, even if the plans carried 
too much risk, I cant safely conclude that Investec was responsible for this.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs H now say about the 
information provided, Im not persuaded that the information is contradictory. Im persuaded 
that the KID wasnt designed to be read in isolation as a standalone document, therefore, Im 
satisfied that the information in it was clear fair and not misleading when read alongside the 
Plan Brochure. 
If Mr and Mrs H thought anything wasnt clear or they wanted to check their understanding, 
they couldve spoken to Investec or their IFA, even though this was a non-advised sale. Im 
mindful that the KID made clear in bold the following message: You are about to purchase a 
product that is not simple and may be difficult to understand. 
In terms of Other relevant information I note Investecs website also provided information on 
how the plan worked, including the use of averaging, risks involved, Q&A and terms and 
conditions  I dont think its necessary for me to repeat sections of the Plan Brochure except 
to say it contained a section entitled How does the plan work? which did precisely that as 
well as explain the use of averaging. In the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to 
blame Investec for the conclusions drawn by Mr and Mrs H based on the KID alone. 
I appreciate what Mr H says about his knowledge and experience  Effectively, you are 
expecting a pensioner to have the same financial aptitude as a large global bank which 
has significant financial expertise and resources  but I cant blame the business for this, as 
he and Mrs H were content to proceed on a non-advised basis. Despite what he says, I am 
unable to safely say that the business did anything wrong. 
Its likely that Mr and Mrs H didnt read the information available or understand it. If thats the 
case, I dont think I can blame Investec for this.  
I note Mr H also says that the business accepted it made an error but its still refusing to 
uphold the complaint. But the error was in relation to a separate issue and Investec has 
already accepted that it incorrectly wrote to Mr and Mrs H on 27 March 2021, advising that 
their plans had matured on 26 March 2021 but shouldnt have done so. In the circumstances 
its offered Mr and Mrs H £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  
which theyve accepted. It has also apologised for the overall level of service provided.  
Mr and Mrs H have suggested that if theyre unsuccessful with the complaint theyd like to 
appeal to the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Whist theyre free to 
contact the FCA its not a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs overall concerns with the situation and recognise they will be 
disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But having given the 
matter careful consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman