DRN-3367506
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (TPF) rejected 
her claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of payments made to a 
timeshare relinquishment company.
What happened
In May 2020 Mrs P paid £5,180 to a company I will call E. She made three payments with 
different credit cards, one of which was provided by TPF. She entered into a contract under 
which E was to seek to end the timeshare agreement and claim compensation. E outsourced 
the work to a firm of solicitors. 
Mrs P considered that the claim wasnt being pursued properly and spoke to another firm 
which advised her to contact the timeshare provider direct. She did and was able to end the 
agreement. She contacted TPF to make a section 75 claim, but this was rejected. TPF said it 
didnt have evidence that there had been either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Mrs P brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He summarised the key points of the 
contract between Mrs P and E and said the essence of the agreement was that E would 
assist in ending the timeshare agreement and seek compensation. He noted the contract 
was fairly vague and allowed for the process to take up to five years and success was not 
guaranteed.
He had seen correspondence which showed that E had been working on Mrs Ps claim and 
while this may not have been to the satisfaction of Mrs P it did not amount to either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. 
Mrs P didnt agree and said Es salesperson wasnt qualified to make assessments yet it had 
assessed the claim. She said that E was unqualified to assess any claim. She also said that 
the contract stated E would act in an honest, open and ethical manner. She claimed this they 
had failed to do and referenced the claim in the contract that they will use their best 
endeavours to act swiftly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied the required chain is in place so I have to consider if there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. The key elements of the contract which were summarised by 
our investigator are set out below:
E is a company specialising in Timeshare/Holiday Ownership disputes and works in 
association with lawyers and industry experts to pursue compensation claims on the 
basis ofmis-selling and misrepresentation of timeshareand to assist with the 
disposal of unwanted timeshares
You agreed to appoint E as your claims manager and that where you are an existing 
timeshare owner, you wish to engage E to assist with the disposal of it
The service E provides, will start on the date the contract is signed and end, when 
you receive confirmation of the disposal of the timeshare and/or when you receive 
written notification as to the result of any claim for compensation
E agrees to examine all documentation in connection with the timeshare purchase 
and ownership and will determine the best route for a claim or settlement agreement, 
depending on the viability of the claim at the time of entering this contract
E agrees to refer your case to lawyer/s who will submit any claim for compensation 
where after examining all the documentation in conjunction with the circumstances of 
the timeshare purchase and thereafter the legal opinion merits such submission 
(legal assessment)
You agree that you are an existing timeshare owner and require cancellation and that 
you will remain liable for any management fees arising up to the date of a confirmed 
disposal
Where there is a potential claim and the file has been passed to a legal 
representative, you may then be informed not to pay any further maintenance 
feesyou will inform E if there are any changes to the timeshareas this may 
influence the outcome of your claim
You agree that E retains the right to sub-contract any of its obligations under the 
contract to assist in the performance of the service
You agree and acknowledge and accept that in some cases it could be a matter of 
weeks or months before a solution is achieved and in others, it may take a 
considerable period of timeE will use its best endeavours to act as swiftly as due 
process allows
E agrees the contract will terminate after five years or at an earlier date when the 
service has been completed
You agree to pay £5,180 to E. 
I have considered each of these items in the contract and I have seen no evidence of a clear 
breach or misrepresentation. E and its solicitors may not have moved as swiftly as Mrs P 
would have wished but I have seen nothing to show that there was undue delay. I have had 
the benefit of seeing the correspondence between E and its solicitors and I am satisfied that there was activity taking place. The term best endeavours is fairly vague and the only 
deadline in the agreement was the five year one. 
Mrs P has referenced a response from E to her complaint which states they used authorised 
associates who are regulated and qualified to do assess claims. I have no evidence about 
the qualifications of the person who carried out the assessment or if they were regulated. 
However, what I have to consider is the contract and not what was said when a complaint 
was made. I have not identified anything in the contract which supports Mrs Ps claim.
It did agree to use best endeavours, but as I have said above it is difficult to say that it has 
failed to do so. It simply requires it to do what a reasonable person would do in the particular 
circumstances. 
I have noted Mrs P assertion that E and the solicitor should have been able to end the 
timeshare agreement with relative ease as she did herself. However, the agreement she 
signed was to claim compensation in addition to ending the agreement and that is not the 
same. 
Nor do I think the lack of information supplied to Mrs P amounts to a breach of contract. I 
have noted that E has supplied TPF with details of correspondence sent to Mrs P which I 
believe she didnt receive. However, cannot say that it wasnt sent.
Our investigator also considered whether a chargeback should have been undertaken and I 
agree for the same reasons that one was not necessary. 
I appreciate Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision, but I cannot safely conclude that 
TPF has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman