DRN-4136204
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) provided 
poor telephone customer service.
What happened
Mr S attempted to contact Barclays to order some foreign currency and it took 1 hour and 30 
minutes on the phone for this matter to be resolved. 
Mr S wants compensation for this. One of our investigators looked into this matter and they 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr S did not agree with this and therefore his complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my understanding that Mr S thinks its unacceptable that individuals have to wait for long 
periods of time to use telephone banking. This Service largely wont interfere with an 
organisations business practices, including how it has set up its call centre telephone 
system and staffing availability at call centres. It is the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority, to monitor how a business conducts this type of activity. So I am not able 
to tell Barclays to change the way it runs its call centres.
Whilst I understand that it can be frustrating or inconvenient waiting in a queue for a call to 
be answered, this does not mean that compensation is necessarily merited. In many cases, 
even though there has been a certain amount of inconvenience or distress, it will not be 
appropriate for this service to tell a bank to pay compensation. We wont decide the bank 
should pay if the degree of inconvenience appears to be slight. All of us suffer some 
inconvenience in our day-to-day lives and in our dealings with commercial organisations.
In this instance whilst I am satisfied that it would be inconvenient to be on a call for 1 hour 
and 30 minutes, I do not think the level of inconvenience is sufficiently high enough to merit 
compensation. I should also add that when Mr S wants to contact Barclays there are other 
options available to Mr S, such as using online banking or visiting a branch. But the reality is 
Mr S has chosen to use a method that will invariably involve some waiting times. This cant 
be completely avoided.
Overall I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman