DRN-3718266
The complaint
Mr R has complained that The Co-operative Bank (The Co-op) Plc mis-sold him a package 
bank account on 30 January 2003.
What happened
Mr R tells us he spoke to The Co-op on the phone when he took out the Privilege package 
bank account. He says The Co-op told him that the only way he was able to keep the 
overdraft facility on his account was if he upgraded it to the package fee-paying account.
Mr R has since found that he did not need to have the Privilege account to have his overdraft 
so feels the account was mis-sold to him.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Rs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Mr R disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the Privilege account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
There is limited information available from the time Mr R took out his Privilege account, but 
this isnt unusual considering the time thats passed and that businesses arent required to 
keep this type of information indefinitely.
From the information that is available and what we know about The Co-ops sales processes 
at the time I dont think The Co-op gave Mr R a tailored recommendation to take his Privilege 
account. This means The Co-op didnt have to make sure the account was right for Mr R. 
But it did have to make sure Mr R got received the information he needed to decide if the 
account suited his circumstances at the time.
At the time Mr R took the Privilege account the main benefits were worldwide family travel 
insurance and an interest free overdraft limit up to £100 (with preferential rates for overdrafts 
that exceeded this amount. Other benefits were added to the account later on.
Mr R says Co-op contacted him and said it would remove his overdraft facility unless he 
agreed to upgrade his account to the Privilege account. I am unable to know exactly what 
was said at the time Mr R took his Privilege account but I think Mr R would have known he 
didnt have to have a package bank account in order to have an overdraft facility as his 
account already had an overdraft facility before the upgrade.
I think it is more likely that the benefits of the account were discussed with Mr R at the time 
he took it out and he thought some of the benefits would be useful to him, such as the free 
and preferential rates that applied to overdrafts. Even more so as Mr R has told us he 
needed the overdraft on his account and that in general having the Privilege account was 
cheaper for customers than having a free account if they used their overdraft facility. 
From the information thats available its clear that Mr R benefitted from having the Privilege 
account and I dont think it was mis-sold to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman