DRN-1155149
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M was given 4 loans by Mr Lender between June 2016 and August 2018. A summary of 
Mr M's borrowing is as follows:
LOAN 
NUMBERBORROWING 
DATELOAN 
AMOUNTNO OF 
INSTALMENTSREPAYMENT 
AMOUNT
1 26.6.17 £200 3 £296.00
2 30.10.17 £400 5 £672.00
3 29.3.18 £300 6 £547.20
4 28.8.18 £350 6 £639.66
When Mr M originally complained to Mr Lender about these loans, Mr Lender offered to 
waive the interest and charges from the outstanding loan balance for Loan 4, and to remove 
any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. Mr M rejected this offer and brought his 
complaint to this service.
Mr M's complaint was assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the offer from 
Mr Lender in respect of Loan 4 wouldve put Mr M in a better position than he could 
recommend, as he didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M said that hed had several other outstanding loans at the time hed borrowed from Mr 
Lender, and that it would have been apparent to Mr Lender that hed been relying on short 
terms loans for a number of years, which meant that further lending wasnt appropriate. 
Our Investigator thought that, given the number of loans and the amount being lent in 
comparison to Mr M's income, the checks that Mr Lender carried out at the time were 
proportionate. And that it was fair to say that Mr Lender wouldnt have known about Mr Ms 
other outstanding short term loans.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator and so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable way. Mr Lenders checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as the loan amount, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered 
if there were any other factors that might indicate that Mr Lender should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish whether continued lending was sustainable for Mr 
M.
Such factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending is unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information in this matter and what 
it means in relation to Mr M's circumstances. Having done so,  I am not going to uphold Mr 
Ms complaint and I will explain why.
Mr Lender carried out some checks before it gave each of the loans to Mr M. These checks 
included asking Mr M for details of his income and expenditure, including the amounts he 
had to re-pay each month in respect of other loans. Mr Lender also carried out some credit 
checks. Ive seen a summary of the results of these checks and they don't show anything 
around the time that the loans were agreed that I think should have caused Mr Lender any 
additional concerns.
Mr M was repaying each loan over a number of months - so the amount he needed to pay 
each month was relatively small in comparison to his declared disposable income and 
generally smaller than he would have needed to repay if the loans were payday loans.I 
accept that Mr M borrowed twice as much when he took out Loan 2(£400) as 
he'd borrowed in Loan 1 (£200). But he didn't take out Loan 2 until a month or so after he'd 
repaid Loan 1 - I don't think there was anything that would have suggested to Mr Lender at 
the time that Mr M was having significant problems repaying his loan. I think the checks Mr 
Lender carried out during its lending relationship with Mr M were reasonable and 
proportionate - given the amount it was lending to Mr M each time, in comparison with his 
income, and the number of loans agreed (4). 
Mr M has provided us with his bank statements. I can see that he was regularly taking out 
other short terms loans around the time he borrowed from Mr Lender, especially when he 
took Loans 3 and 4. And that he might have had real difficulties repaying these loans. 
But given the repayment amounts, what Mr M had told Mr Lender about his circumstances 
and his borrowing history with Mr Lender, I dont think it would have been proportionate for 
Mr Lender to carry out the kind of checks on Mr Ms financial situation that would have been 
needed in order to show that the lending was unsustainable - before the loans were agreed. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr M  told Mr Lender about the full extent of his other 
outstanding loans, and its not something that  proportionate checks would have uncovered 
at the time. I dont think greater checks were appropriate at the time, so Mr Lender would not 
have been aware that Mr M was having serious problems managing his money.
I don't think Mr Lender was wrong to give any of the loans to Mr M, so I am not going to 
uphold his complaint. It is up to Mr M to get in touch with Mr Lender to see whether its 
previous offer remains open to him.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I don't uphold this complaint or make any award 
against PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1st June 2020.
 
 
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman