DRN-4327901
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wouldnt let him switch the 
interest rate on his mortgage without speaking to a mortgage adviser.
What happened
Mr F has a mortgage with Halifax. As he was on Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR), he 
wanted to fix a new rate and decided on a five year term.
Mr F went online to try to switch his rate but was unable to do so. Halifaxs website told him 
that as he had an interest only mortgage he couldnt arrange a new rate online and would 
need to book a telephone appointment with a mortgage adviser. 
Mr F said he tried to arrange a telephone appointment but had trouble getting through. 
Eventually he arranged an appointment for 28 February 2022. He says that as this was the 
last day of the month he assumed that a new fixed rate would start from the following month 
 from 1 March.
However, Mr F was told this wasnt possible. Following the appointment Halifax would need 
to send him a new mortgage offer in the post which he would have to sign and return. Mr F 
says he sent the forms back on 4 March, but Halifax didnt implement his new rate until 
1 April. This meant he had to pay additional interest of around £90 for the month of March. 
Mr F complained that he wasnt able to switch his interest rate online, so that it would have 
been in place for 1 March. He didnt think it was fair that as an interest only customer he 
couldnt do so  but would have been able to switch online if he had a repayment mortgage. 
To resolve matters he wants the additional interest he paid refunded, and he wants to be 
able to use the online switching service in the future.
Halifax said it requires interest only customers to speak to a mortgage adviser so it can 
check that the mortgage is on track, and in particular that theres a means of repaying the 
capital at the end of the term. This meant that it could also give advice about options if there 
wasnt a means of repaying. It didnt think it had acted unfairly.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr F asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F took his mortgage out in 2009. His most recent fixed rate had expired in July 2021 and 
his mortgage had reverted to Halifaxs SVR. Mr F says he first tried to contact Halifax about 
taking a new rate around 3 February 2022  he says was told then that he could switch 
online, only to discover that wasnt possible.
Mr F complained and a Halifax adviser called him to arrange the mortgage switch, but Mr F 
wasnt available at that time. He made an appointment on 28 February, returned the 
paperwork on 4 March, and completed his new interest rate on 1 April.
There are two parts to Mr Fs complaint; whether it was reasonable to require him to take 
advice rather than using the online switching process, and the overall time taken.
I think it was reasonable to require Mr F to speak to a mortgage adviser rather than to switch 
online. He has an interest only mortgage, and the regulator has given guidance to lenders 
about keeping in regular touch with interest only borrowers to make sure there are plans in 
place to ensure their mortgages can be repaid at the end of the term. One of the ways 
Halifax has chosen to do this is as part of the rate switch process. It requires interest only 
borrowers to receive advice so it can check in on their repayment strategy and offer advice 
about options if there isnt an adequate strategy in place.
I dont think thats unreasonable, or that its unfair that this is a different process for 
borrowers with repayment mortgages for whom repaying the capital in a lump sum isnt an 
issue.
Halifax doesnt refuse a rate switch if there isnt a repayment strategy in place; it just uses 
the rate switch process as an opportunity to check in and consider options. 
In this case Mr F didnt have a repayment strategy. Halifax advised him to consider switching 
some or all of the mortgage to repayment terms. Mr F didnt want to do that, but Halifax still 
went ahead with offering a new fixed rate on interest only terms.
I dont think Mr F was treated unfairly because, as an interest only borrower, he wasnt 
permitted to use the online process and had to speak to a mortgage adviser.
I also dont think he was treated unfairly in the time taken. He says he was offered the 
chance to go through the switching process around 15 February, but that wasnt convenient. 
Overall, I dont think the time taken for an appointment to be arranged, on 28 February, was 
unreasonable. There are limits on the number of appointments Halifax can offer, and  as 
here - not every appointment it has available is convenient to its customers.
Once the appointment went ahead, the paperwork was sent out to Mr F and returned 
straightaway, and his new rate was implemented for the start of the month following his 
acceptance  on 1 April. Again, thats not unreasonable. Its standard for a new rate to begin 
on the first of the month and as the appointment was on 28 February there wasnt time for 
the paperwork to be sent out and returned, and the rate set up, by 1 March. It might have 
been implemented by 1 March if Mr F had been able to switch online in early February, but 
Ive already explained why its fair that wasnt possible for him as an interest only borrower.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax followed a fair process, didnt delay unduly, and implemented 
Mr Fs new rate on the first date possible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman