DRN-4126988
The complaint
Mr F complains TSB Bank plc have incorrectly recorded information on his credit file about 
late payments on his personal loan. 
What happened
Mr F has a personal loan with TSB. In March, April, August, September and October 2021 
Mr Fs direct debit was returned unpaid. Mr F says this was due to an error by his bank, 
which Ill call N. 
Mr F complained to TSB  he provided a letter from N which explained there had been an 
error made by them in respect of another direct debit to a different financial business in 
December 2021. Mr F said this showed his late payments to TSB were also caused by N 
and asked TSB to remove the late payment marker from his credit file for October 2021. TSB 
said as this letter related to a different direct debit at a different time to Mr Fs TSB 
payments, they didnt think they had made a mistake. 
Mr F referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator considered his concerns. He said, 
in summary, as Mr F hadnt been able to provide evidence from N that the TSB loan 
payments were rejected because of their error  he didnt think TSB had acted unfairly. 
Mr F didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said he didnt think it was correct that TSB 
could record the late payments unless they were 30 days late, and hed been making up the 
late payments straight away. 
As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
 
I issued a provisional decision. Ive set out my findings here and they form part of this 
decision.
Provisional Findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs monthly loan repayment was set up to be paid on the 28th of each month by direct 
debit when he took the loan out in 2020. Payments were made without incident until March 
2021. 
I can see from Mr Fs loan statements payments were made late for March, April, August, 
September and October 2021. The March and April payments were subject to a separate 
complaint Mr F raised with TSB  during which they agreed to remove information about 
these payments from Mr Fs credit file. That complaint wasnt referred to our service, so Im 
not considering these payments. 
Mr Fs credit file shows only one late payment in 2021  this is the information hes unhappy 
with. Although this has been referred to previously by all parties as the October 2021 
payment, I think this is the September 2021 payment. I say this because TSBs provided 
evidence that they are reporting a late payment made in September 2021, not October 2021. 
I can see though that Mr Fs credit file shows a late payment in September 2021 with one of 
the credit reference agencies, and a late payment in October 2021 with a different credit 
reference agency. If Mr F has concerns about the way the credit reference agencies are 
presenting the information reported by TSB, he should contact them directly. 
Mr F says all the late payments were caused by an error made by his bank, N. Hes provided 
a copy of a letter dated 18 January 2022 from N. But this letter only covers a direct debit that 
was due to be paid to another financial business that was unpaid due to Ns error. It doesnt 
mention Mr Fs direct debits to TSB. We asked Mr F to provide written confirmation from N 
that their error also caused problems with Mr Fs payments to TSB, but he hasnt been able 
to do so. 
As the letter Mr F has provided as evidence of the issue with N doesnt confirm the same 
problem also affected his payments to TSB, I dont think its unreasonable that TSB have 
refused to remove the late payment marker for Mr Fs September 2021 payment. 
Mr Fs particularly unhappy because he says hes been advised that payments must be 
more than 30 days late before they can be reported to the credit reference agencies. Mr F 
says someone at TSB told him this, but TSB have no record of this. And hes provided a link 
to a credit reference agencys website which says late payments wont be reported until the 
account is more than 30 days in arrears. While this is generally true, its up to lenders to 
decide what, if any, grace period theyre willing to allow customers to make up late 
payments. I can see that when discussing this complaint with Mr F, TSB told him they report 
late payments that are not made up within the same calendar month as the payment was 
originally due. 
Having reviewed Mr Fs loan statements, Im satisfied the September 2021 direct debit was 
returned unpaid and was eventually made on 6 October 2021. As this payment wasnt made 
on the agreed date (nor within the same calendar month as it was due), Im satisfied it was 
made late and TSB are therefore entitled to record the late payment on Mr Fs credit file. 
Payments due in March and June 2022 were also made late, which TSB have also recorded 
on Mr Fs credit file. Again, Mr F says these were caused by the same problem with N  but 
Ive already explained why the letter hes shown to demonstrate this isnt sufficient. Based on 
Mr Fs loan statements these payments were made late. So I dont think TSB have made a 
mistake by recording this information on Mr Fs credit file either. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied TSB has treated Mr F fairly. If Mr F is 
unhappy with what N have done, he may wish to consider contacting them separately about 
this. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F did not respond by the deadline. 
TSB responded to say they had no further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither Mr F or TSB provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. 
So, for the same reasons set out above, I find TSB has treated Mr F fairly.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman