DRN-3798919
The complaint
Mr L complains about a delay he experienced in withdrawing money from his account with 
AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest, as well as the service he then 
received.
What happened
On 22 April 2021 Mr L requested to withdraw £18,500 from his account with AJ Bell via a 
CHAPS payment  which he expected to receive the same day. However, AJ Bell incorrectly 
processed this as a BACS payment and so Mr L didnt receive it until 26 April. Mr L was 
unhappy with this delay because he had intended to buy Bitcoin Cash (BCH), the price of 
which had risen between 22 and 26 April. Mr L made a complaint about the delay, and 
subsequent service he received from AJ Bell  primarily regarding the timeliness and lack of 
replies from the complaints department.
AJ Bell looked into the complaint and said that the withdrawal request was processed in line 
with the time frames set out in the FAQ section of their website, and the terms and 
conditions of the account. They felt Mr L had given them different dates of when he would 
have invested, had he received the amount sooner, and so they didnt think it was fair to 
conclude that he would have invested earlier. They recognised the service could have been 
better and so offered £200 compensation. Mr L didnt agree and asked our service to 
investigate the complaint.
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found it should be upheld. She 
said it was likely that if AJ Bell had processed the payment as a CHAPS one, Mr L would 
have received the money on 22 April. She acknowledged that their website says it might 
take longer, but found it wouldnt actually have taken that amount of time had everything 
gone as it should. She also noted that though Mr L withdrew £18,500, he only bought 
£17,832.62 of BCH on 26 April 2021. She said she thought it was fair for AJ Bell to consider 
whether Mr L had been caused any losses. She asked AJ Bell to look at the price of BCH on 
22 April 2021, to see if Mr L could have bought any more BCH if hed invested on that day 
instead of on 26 April. She also said the £200 offered was fair for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr L replied and said he agreed with the method of calculating redress as set out by the 
investigator. AJ Bell replied and said there wasnt any financial loss caused  they said the 
lowest price of BCH on 22 April was £610.92 and Mr L had paid just over £607 per BCH on 
24 April  so was able to buy more than he would have on 22 April. 
The investigator explained this to Mr L, who said he no longer agreed with it. He said his 
original plan was to invest at some point over the weekend, as he would have tracked the 
market to decide the best time to invest. He said he only invested right away on 26 April, 
because the market was rising at that time. So, he thought it would be fair to look at a mid-
price of the prices between 22 and 26 April. As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. 
Everyone agrees that Mr L did request a CHAPS payment and AJ Bell incorrectly processed 
this request. If the withdrawal had been processed correctly, Im satisfied it would have been 
received by Mr L on 22 April 2021, rather than on 26 April. The focus of my decision is 
therefore on when Mr L would have invested if hed received the money when he ought to. 
Its not possible to know exactly when Mr L would have invested  so I need to decide when 
I think he likely would have invested, based on the balance of probabilities. My starting point 
for this would be to mirror what actually happened once a customer did receive their money, 
unless there is persuasive evidence to show that something else would likely have 
happened. So, Ive carefully considered Mr Ls testimony about what his plans were on 22 
April, in order to decide if I should take a different approach. 
Initially, Mr L told AJ Bell that he had wanted to invest on 23 April, and later said he would 
have invested on 25 April. After receiving the investigators view, he agreed he would have 
invested on 22 April. But once he was told that would mean there wouldnt be any redress 
payable to him, he said he wouldnt have invested that day. He explained the only reason he 
invested right after receiving the money on 26 April was because the markets were rising at 
that time. He said if he received the money on 22 April, he would have kept a close eye on 
the markets and invested at the time he felt was right, at some point between 22 and 26 
April.  
Given that Mr Ls position has varied on several occasions, I dont find his testimony 
particularly persuasive about which of the days hed have likely invested on. Overall, Im not 
persuaded to depart from the approach set out by the investigator  to mirror the series of 
events that took place on 26 April and reconstruct what would have happened on 22 April. Ill 
explain why. 
Its clear that when Mr L did receive the money on 26 April, he transferred it to his trading 
account very quickly. From the screenshot hes provided, he bought BCH within ten minutes 
of receiving the money into that account. Ive also noted that the screenshot shows a period 
of around two months of his trading activity. On the other occasions that he transferred cash 
into his account, he bought BCH within a few hours each time. Based on that pattern, 
including what took place on 26 April, I think its likely that on 22 April Mr L would have 
bought BCH within a few hours of transferring the money to his trading account.  
From all the evidence Ive seen and research Ive carried out into the prices of BCH on 22 
April, it would have cost Mr L more per unit that day, than he paid on 26 April. So, he 
benefitted from the delay by being able to buy more BCH than he otherwise would have. As 
such, Im satisfied theres no financial loss for AJ Bell to pay. 
That being said, I am persuaded that AJ Bell caused a delay, which meant that Mr L didnt 
have the opportunities and choices that he otherwise would have had, which clearly caused 
him frustration. Ive also considered the timeliness of the correspondence between Mr L and 
AJ Bell when he was complaining about the issue. Although I wont go into detail about what 
happened, I can assure Mr L and AJ Bell that Ive considered all the evidence theyve 
submitted on this point. There were certain times when Mr L didnt receive a reply to emails or calls when promised 
so I think there were some delays here. Ive noted other times when I dont think the 
response times were unreasonable  for instance on 24 April Mr L emailed to say he was 
unhappy that he hadnt yet received a reply to an email sent the day before. I dont think its 
unreasonable for a business to take more than a day to reply to an email  if a timely answer 
is desired, then a call to a business would naturally be the quickest way to get in touch. 
Having considered everything, I think the offer of £200 is fair and reasonable to make up for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the errors.  
My final decision
AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest has already made an offer to pay 
£200 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest should pay 
Mr L £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman