DRN-1946563
The complaint
Ms A complains that she was mis-sold a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews).
What happened
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL) sold this policy, but St Andrews has accepted 
responsibility for the sale. Because of this, St Andrews has also agreed it is responsible for 
the complaint. To make things easier Ive referred to HIIL throughout my decision.
Ms A took out a mortgage in 2000. Four years later after the mortgage was agreed and Ms A 
had been making her mortgage repayments, Ms A completed and returned mortgage 
repayments cover acceptance form by post for a PPI policy. 
The policy cost £39.06 a month. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid £657.69 a 
month for up to 12 months per claim if Ms A was unable to work due to accident or sickness 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought because the policy 
was sold so long after the mortgage was granted Ms A wouldve understood the policy was 
optional and that it provided a useful benefit. 
Ms A disagreed. She says PPI was never discussed.   
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Ms As complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint.
HILL had to make it clear to Ms A she had a choice in taking the policy and that she chose to 
take it. Ive seen a copy of the PPI cover acceptance form Ms A completed and returned for 
PPI. The application was for PPI only so I dont think Ms A wouldve mistook it for something 
else. And as the policy was sold 4 years after Ms As mortgage was agreed and she had 
been making her mortgage repayments, so I think she wouldve understood she didnt have 
to take the PPI to have the mortgage. And I think Ms A completed the PPI acceptance form 
because she wanted the cover  I havent seen anything to suggest otherwise. 
Because Ms A completed and returned the application form by post I dont think HILL 
advised Ms A to take PPI. What this means is that HILL didnt recommend PPI to Ms A, it 
just gave her information about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I can see the cost is clear from the acceptance form but I dont know if HILL did give all the 
proper information that was needed. But even if HILL did give all the information Ms A 
needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken 
the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms 
and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Ms A says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay she could 
use to make her mortgage repayments if she couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid 
out on top of any sick pay and covered her if she was too sick to work or lost her job. So 
I cant see how knowing this information wouldve put her off buying it especially 
considering the financial commitment it provided protection for.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Ms A and she could cancel 
the policy if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Ms A on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
Which means HILL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Ms As complaint against St Andrews 
Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman