DRN-3248369
The complaint
Mrs F complains about delays by ReAssure Limited when she wanted to make a lump sum 
payment into her pension. And it then took a long time for ReAssure to carry out a promised 
loss assessment. 
What happened
Mrs F contacted ReAssure on 29 October 2020 about making a one off lump sum 
investment in her pension plan. ReAssure responded on 27 November 2020 acknowledging 
her request. Mrs F then complained a few weeks later about ReAssures delay.
In its final response to Mrs F dated 6 March 2021, ReAssure accepted thered been a delay. 
ReAssure hadnt responded to Mrs Fs request within their stated aim of ten working days. 
ReAssure offered to carry out a loss assessment if Mrs F made an investment within 28 
days of the letter and to pay £100 as an apology for the inconvenience Mrs F had been 
caused. 
Mrs F emailed ReAssure on 17 March 2021. She said as ReAssure was willing to complete 
a loss assessment, shed be happy to invest the original £20,000. She asked ReAssure to 
advise as soon as possible as to the outcome of the loss assessment as she had an idea as 
to how the investment wouldve increased and she wanted to be sure that a similar 
calculation would apply. 
Mrs F didn't receive a response and chased ReAssure in April and spoke to someone on the 
phone. She was promised a call back. She didnt receive one and she referred her complaint 
to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it. In summary his findings 
were:
To place Mrs Fs investment ReAssure needed the funds and the tax relief and 
Know Your Customer forms. But for ReAssures delay, Mrs F wouldve received 
those forms on or shortly after 13 November 2020. ReAssures service standard was 
to aim to respond to investment requests within ten working days. Mrs Fs enquiry 
was made on 29 October 2020 which was ten working days prior to 13 November 
2020.
The investigator thought Mrs F wouldve completed and returned the forms as soon 
as she received them. The information needed wouldve been immediately available 
to her and when shed made her initial enquiry shed said she wanted to invest 
quickly. 
It was reasonable to assume ReAssure wouldve received the forms back in the post 
by 20 November 2020. So that was the date on which the loss assessment should be 
based. 
The offer of £100 for distress and inconvenience wasnt enough taking into account 
the impact on Mrs F. She was going to be 55 in January 2021 and was considering 
early retirement. Her retirement planning was important to her at the time and even if 
she cant be certain whether she wouldve retired then had there not been a delay. 
ReAssures delay meant that the additional funds and tax relief wasnt available in 
her pension from age 55. Had she retired before investing these funds in her 
pension, she may not then have been able to due to allowance implications.
Despite contacting ReAssure to make the investment before the 5 April deadline 
given in their final response letter, ReAssure still didnt carry out a loss assessment. 
And Mrs F didnt get the call back which was promised.
ReAssures offer fairly acknowledged the inconvenience caused to Mrs F by the 
initial delay but not the impact on her retirement planning or the frustration caused by 
the loss assessment not being carried out. The investigator thought a minimum of a 
further £100 would be fair. 
The investigator set out how ReAssure should calculate the loss suffered by Mrs F. 
Initially ReAssure didnt respond to the investigators view. ReAssure then said that it had 
offered in its letter dated 6 March 2021 to complete a loss assessment to see if Mrs F had 
suffered any financial loss. That was still ongoing. ReAssure said the payment of £100 
already offered plus the completion of the loss assessment was fair and reasonable. 
The investigator replied saying he thought the offer of a loss assessment was fair in 
principle. But without any evidence to show how it was actually carried out or that the details 
used in the calculation were fair, he couldnt reasonably conclude it was a fair resolution to 
the complaint. He reiterated what hed said about the compensation for distress and 
inconvenience and why he didnt think it accounted for the impact on Mrs Fs retirement 
planning and the frustration shed suffered as a result of the loss assessment not being 
carried out. He maintained his recommendation for a minimum of a further £100 
compensation was well justified.
ReAssure then told us the loss assessment had been completed and provided details. It said 
the loss had been calculated based on the £20,000 premium investment and using a growth 
rate of 5%. The dates used for the calculation were 29 October 2020 (when Mrs Fs initial 
request was received) to 6 March 2021 as ReAssure said the investment couldve been 
made elsewhere and gained future growth. That worked out (£20,000 x 5% on 128 days) at 
£350.68.
The investigator put the offer to Mrs F. She didnt accept it. Amongst other things, she said 
she didnt understand the basis of the calculation. The period quoted wasnt relevant. The 
investment was going to be in her pension, not a short-term savings account paying 5% 
interest. Her £20,000 investment wouldve become £25,000 with tax relief. By mid-March 
2022 it wouldve been worth about £36,500. Using the dates ReAssure themselves used, her 
investment wouldve grown to about £30,000. She said shed missed out on growth of 
between £10,000 and £18,000.
We told ReAssure that Mrs F wasnt prepared to accept its offer.
As the complaint wasnt settled its been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure accepts that it didnt deal properly with Mrs Fs enquiry about investing £20,000 in 
her pension fund. There was a delay on ReAssures part. ReAssure then didnt carry out 
promptly the loss assessment it had promised when Mrs F had complained. And which Mrs 
F required sight of before she went ahead with investing the £20,000 in her pension. Further, 
when Mrs F tried to chase things up, she didnt get the call back shed been promised. And it was only relatively recently that ReAssure was able to confirm to the outcome of the loss 
assessment, which Mrs F didnt accept.  
Where, as here, a business accepts that it hasnt dealt with things properly and has made an 
offer of compensation, our approach is as the investigator explained  we need to consider if 
the offer is fair and reasonable. Generally speaking well need to be satisfied that the offer 
puts the consumer back in the position theyd have been in, if the business had acted as it 
shouldve done. 
I dont think the offer that ReAssure has made does that. 
I agree with the approach the investigator has suggested. Had ReAssure dealt with the 
enquiry Mrs F made on 29 October 2020 as it shouldve done and sent her  by the dates 
the investigator suggested and in accordance with ReAssures own service standards  the 
necessary forms for completion, Mrs F wouldve made a lump sum investment of £20,000 
into her pension plan on or about 20 November 2020. So I think thats the starting point for 
calculating if Mrs F has suffered any loss. 
ReAssure has suggested that any loss should be, in effect, capped at 6 March 2021. I dont 
agree. ReAssure did write to Mrs F on that date offering to undertake a loss assessment. But 
I dont see that meant she should then have invested the £20,000 in her pension with 
ReAssure or done something else with that money. 
I dont think it was unreasonable on Mrs Fs part to want to see the outcome of ReAssures 
loss assessment before going ahead with making a very substantial - £20,000 - investment 
into her pension fund. Its only very recently that the loss assessment has been carried out. I 
dont think Mrs F should be in effect penalised for not making an investment during the time 
the loss assessment has taken and when she didnt know how ReAssure was going to 
assess any loss shes incurred. And her stance appears further justified if the loss 
assessment isnt fair and reasonable and doesnt put her back in the position she wouldve 
been in but for ReAssures service failings.
I dont think the offer is fair and reasonable. As Ive said I dont think, for the reason Ive 
explained, that it should be capped at 6 March 2021. Nor do I see why Mrs F should be 
offered interest at 5%. The proper measure of her loss (if any) is what her £20,000 
investment would be worth today had it been made in her pension fund in accordance with 
the timeline that shouldve applied. Doing the calculation on an up to date basis is fair, given 
that Mrs Fs pension fund remains invested  shes told us that she hasnt taken any 
benefits. Its possible that Mrs F hasnt suffered any loss. Or that any loss is less than the 
sum offered by ReAssure. But that would still be fair as it would reflect how her investment of 
£20,000 wouldve performed had she made it.  
I also agree with what the investigator said about why the sum ReAssure offered for distress 
and inconvenience wasnt sufficient in the circumstances of this complaint. I agree a further 
£100 is justified. 
Im upholding the complaint. ReAssure should calculate and pay redress in line with what the 
investigator suggested. Ive set it out slightly differently below for the sake of clarity. 
Wed expect ReAssure to carry out the calculation and pay any redress promptly. If not, 
interest should be paid. I recognise that ReAssure may need details from Mrs F of the 
interest shes received on the £20,000 shes retained in order to undertake the redress 
calculation. Ive allowed for that by saying that compensation should be paid within 28 days 
of Mrs F supplying the relevant details (which information I assume she can easily obtain 
from the building society concerned), failing which interest at 8% pa is to be paid.Putting things right
Mrs F wouldve made the contribution of £20,000 in the 2020/2021 tax year and received tax 
relief on it. She can now make the same contribution into her pension and tax relief will be 
given. So her loss is the growth she would have received on the contribution and the tax 
relief combined. But Mrs F has retained the £20,000 she wouldve paid into her pension in a 
building society account and has received interest on it. 
So ReAssure should calculate redress as follows: 
A. Ascertain the notional value of the £20,000 contribution plus the tax relief that 
wouldve been received on that amount at the date of my decision assuming it was 
invested on 20 November 2020 in the same funds, and in the same proportions, as 
Mrs Fs existing pension.
B. Ascertain the current value of the £20,000 Mrs F retained, taking into account 
accrued interest from 20 November 2020 to the date of my final decision. 
C. Is the amount of tax relief Mrs F wouldve received on her contribution.
Mrs Fs loss is A-B-C.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mrs Fs pension plan. The
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs F as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow
for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Mrs F hasnt yet taken any tax 
free cash from her plan, 25% of the loss would be tax free and 75% wouldve been taxed 
according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Interest at 8% pa from the date of my final decision to the date of payment should be added 
if the redress or any part of it isnt paid within 28 days of Mrs F providing ReAssure with 
details of the interest paid/applicable rates for the relevant period. 
ReAssure should also pay Mrs F a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience shes 
been caused.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. ReAssure Limited must calculate and pay redress as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman