DRN-3871565
The complaint
Mrs S, on behalf of the estate of Mr S, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC cannot locate a 
refund that was sent to Mr Ss credit card account.
What happened
Ms H (Mr and Mrs Ss daughter) says a holiday company issued a refund to her late fathers 
credit card account in April 2021 due to a holiday that was cancelled during the pandemic. 
She says her mother (Mrs S) spent many hours on calls and branch visits to both the holiday 
company and Lloyds, and has now obtained the transaction number, but the money wasnt 
found. Ms H says that Lloyds is now requesting full details of the holiday companys bank 
account, but she cannot obtain that as its confidential.
Lloyds says that as the credit card account was closed, the refund would have been placed 
in a suspense account. However, it says that its unable to locate such a refund and the 
deadline has now passed for it to contact the merchant and claim the refund on Mr Ss 
behalf. Lloyds says the holiday company would need to contact its bank to complete a bank 
trace to obtain the details it requires to trace the refund. It accepts, however, that its 
customer service could have been better and has paid Mrs S £100 for this.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. He was satisfied that 
Lloyds could not locate the refund but recommended a further £50 should be paid to Mrs S 
for her upset and inconvenience.
Lloyds accepted the recommendation.
Ms H responded to say, in summary, that the outcome is unacceptable. She says her mother 
has limited means and the loss of the money will affect her health and well-being  she says 
Mrs S can barely afford to heat her house.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has now confirmed that the total refund of £1,036.68 was split into two transactions  
each of £518.34. Lloyds said the credit card account was closed so the refunds would have 
been placed in a suspense account, but its checks showed no refunds were received 
quoting Mr S's credit card account number.
I asked Lloyds to send the results of those checks, and also to confirm whether the 
suspense account had been searched for the refund amounts, regardless of the account 
number quoted. Lloyds has now sent further information:
It confirmed that Mr Ss credit card was closed on 10 December 2020, and so the 
refunds would have gone into the suspense account as they could not have been 
allocated to his account in April 2021;
Lloyds said the refund would show Mr Ss card account number as the reference and 
so this was the search that was carried out;
I have seen evidence that this search, and a search of all Mr Ss linked cards, 
showed no results;
Lloyds said it doesnt usually search based on the amounts, but has now done so as 
the refunds were very specific numbers;
oIt said it searched the suspense account for the separate amounts and the 
total and found no results which meant that in the last 2 years we havent 
received any payments of £518.34 or £1036.68.
I know this is going to be very disappointing for both Mrs S and Ms H, but Im satisfied, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, that Lloyds does not have the refunds.
Lloyds did add that its possible the refunds could have bounced back automatically to the 
merchant, but it was unable to prove that.
I acknowledge that Lloyds paid £100 for its poor customer service, but I do find a further £50 
is fair and reasonable for the upset this has caused to Mrs S.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mrs S a 
further £50 as it has agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S, on behalf of 
the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman