DRN-2290661
The complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995. Mr G paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case. 
Having done that, Ive not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Neither side still has all of the original documents from the sale, which is unsurprising given 
all the time thats passed. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened 
based on the limited information I do have.
From what Ive seen of the application process at the time, it looks like buying PPI was not 
part and parcel of the mortgage application. Instead, in order to get a policy, one had to 
specifically apply for it and sign for it separately. And from Mr Gs mortgage offer, I can see 
that PPI was not a condition of his mortgage. Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds 
sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr G was misled or unfairly 
pressured into buying PPI here. So on the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely that 
Lloyds made Mr G aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it 
at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr G, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr G 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Gs work benefits and offered him more 
comprehensive cover. It also meant he could effectively protect any savings he had and use 
them for other things, instead of potentially having to sacrifice one asset to save another. 
I understand Mr Gs family may have been happy to help, but there was always the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was his sole responsibility, so 
I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Lloyds had recommended he rely on other individuals 
to pay it. Ultimately, its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a very significant, long-
term commitment. There was no guarantee that Mr G would have the same benefits or 
savings available in the many years to come. And if he fell behind on his payments, he 
couldve lost his home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for him in protecting his home 
and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr G about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But as I explained above, Mr G wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. The 
policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr G could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the 
cover.
Lastly, Mr G pointed out that he received a refund for a different PPI policy, and I understand 
why he raised this. But different policies worked in different ways as terms changed over the 
years, were suitable in different circumstances, and were sold using different methods at 
different times. So even if one given policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a 
different one was, too. And sometimes, businesses might refund a policy even if it wasnt 
mis-sold, for example as a goodwill gesture or because its only a small refund. Ive 
explained above why I have not found that this particular policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman