DRN-1694106
 
The complaint
Mr D complained because National Westminster Bank Plc closed his accounts. He also said 
he hadnt collected the cash when the accounts were closed. 
Mr D wants a copy of the receipt where hed signed for the cash. He told NatWest that if they 
cant provide this, he wants the accounts reopened and the money paid back into them. 
What happened
On 29 May 2013, Mr D opened two new accounts at a NatWest branch. The following day, 
NatWest decided it didnt want to provide Mr D with banking facilities and it wrote to tell him 
the accounts would be closed in 14 days time. Mr Ds accounts were closed on 14 June and 
the balance transferred to a suspense account. The funds were collected by someone with 
identification on 3 July 2013.
On 10 July 2019 Mr D contacted NatWest to ask why his accounts had been closed. He 
asked for his money.
On 23 July 2019, NatWest sent its final response to Mr D. This pointed out that section 12.2 
of the account Terms and Conditions said that the bank could close a customers account 
immediately, under a number of quoted circumstances. NatWest confirmed to Mr D that the 
money had been collected from a branch on 3 July 2013, with photographic identification.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said hed been working abroad for 
some years, and when he returned to the UK hed tried to use the accounts again. He wasnt 
happy when NatWest told him the accounts were closed, and said he wanted proof that hed 
signed for the cash.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said hed seen a copy of the letter 
NatWest sent to Mr D when it told him it was closing the accounts. This said Mr D must go to 
a branch with photographic identification. The investigator said there hadnt been any need 
for a signature because the balance was coming from the banks suspense account, not 
from an account in Mr Ds name.
Mr D wasnt satisfied. He said he was simply asking whether hed collected the funds  and 
he wanted his signed receipt in order to satisfy himself. He said hed asked three other 
banks what they asked for when paying out money, and had been told theyd need 
identification and a signed receipt from the customer. He also said that when hed first 
approached NatWest about the account in 2019, hed had to fill up three-page form for each 
account, which hed had to sign.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Timescales
This service is bound by rules, set by the Financial Conduct Authority, about what 
complaints we can and cant consider. Among other things, these state that we cant 
consider a complaint which a consumer brings to us more than six years after the date 
complained of. 
Mr D is complaining about the closure of his accounts and the fact that he said he didnt sign 
for the cash on 3 July 2013. He complained to this service on 6 November 2019. So thats 
outside the time limit.
There is, however, an exception, if the bank has consented to this service considering the 
complaint, even though its out of time. NatWest has consented, so I can consider this 
complaint.
Whether NatWest had the power to close Mr Ds account
In the terms and conditions of Mr Ds accounts, section 12.2 says:
We can close your account immediately if:
 we reasonably suspect that youve given us false information, which was a significant 
factor in our decision to open your account (or to continue to provide it to you);
 we reasonably suspect that your account (or any other account you hold with us) is
being used, or is planned to be used, for an illegal purpose;
 you behave in a threatening or violent manner towards our staff;
 were required to do so by law or regulation;
 youre declared bankrupt;
 youve entered into a voluntary arrangement with your creditors to repay your debts; or
 youve used your account for business purposes.
Mr D accepted these terms and conditions when he opened the accounts. So NatWest did 
have the power to close Mr Ds accounts. In fact it gave him 14 days notice, rather than the 
immediate closure it could have operated. And the bank doesnt have to give the customer a 
reason for the closure.  That reflects the fact that customers also have the power to close 
their accounts whenever they wish,  without giving the bank a reason.
So I find that NatWest had the power to close Mr Ds accounts.
Whether NatWest has to provide a copy of Mr Ds signature for the cash closure
There are no rules to say that a bank has to obtain a copy of a customers signature when 
paying out cash. And the absence of a procedure which takes this precaution doesnt 
necessarily prove it was someone else who received the money.  Its clearly in a banks 
interest to have a system which requires a signature, as well as any other checks  not least 
because it avoids disputes like this. But ultimately its up to a bank to determine its own 
procedures.Without the evidence of a signature, Ive gone on to consider whether its likely that it was Mr 
D who received the closure cash.
Whether its likely that it was Mr D who received the closure cash
After more than six years, its unlikely that any substantial evidence would have been 
retained. That applies to CCTV, or a signed receipt if NatWest had required one. Its unlikely 
that detailed information will be available after such a long time, especially because the 
relevant regulations that apply to holding data say that businesses shouldnt generally hold 
onto information for longer than six years. So Ive considered what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened.
I note that NatWest has argued that the payment was made at the same branch where Mr D 
opened the account some weeks earlier. It says branch staff would have realised if it wasnt 
the same person. I dont agree with this. The branch was a busy city branch and staff would 
see many customers each day. 
But the person who collected the cash on 3 July had photographic identification which 
matched all the details set up when Mr D opened the account. That person also knew that a 
recent letter had been sent to Mr Ds registered address, about closing the accounts and the 
cash being available to collect. I think its unlikely that any third party fraudster would have 
had access to Mr Ds letter, and to Mr Ds photographic identification. 
And Mr Ds photographic identification would also have had to match what the fraudster 
looked like.
Ive also borne in mind that Mr D didnt complain to NatWest for more than six years. Hes 
said that after some time he left to go abroad. NatWests closure letter was sent very 
shortly after the account had been opened. So I consider Mr D would have received 
NatWests closure letter before he went. That letter said hed need to collect the closing cash 
from a branch. So, if it was a fraudster who collected Mr Ds closing cash, I find it surprising 
that Mr D didnt get in touch with Mr D about the accounts and his cash for more than six 
years. 
Other points raised by Mr D
Mr D told the investigator he hadnt been in the country at the time the accounts were 
closed. He offered to send a copy of his passport which he said had been issued in May 
2014. But NatWest took the closure decision on 30 May 2013 and the £223.64 was paid out 
on 3 July 2013. No stamps in a passport issued in May 2014 could prove Mr Ds 
whereabouts at the time of closure. 
Mr D has also commented that when he contacted NatWest in 2019, he was asked to sign 
two three-page forms.  But signing these forms isnt relevant to Mr Ds complaint about 
whether or not he was the person who collected the cash in July 2013. Banks are entitled to 
set up whatever procedures they wish. The fact that Mr D was asked to sign forms in 2019, 
when asking about accounts which had been closed more than six years earlier, doesnt 
mean the bank had to require Mr Ds signature for a cash closure in 2013.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its most likely that it was Mr D himself who 
received the cash for the closure of his accounts in July 2013.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
 
 
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman