DRN-3244863
The complaint
Miss S complains Experian Limited (Experian) didnt cancel her credit reference subscription 
when she asked them to.
 
What happened
In March 2021, Miss S realised that she was still being charged by Experian even though 
she said shed cancelled her subscription. Miss S said shed cancelled the subscription 
during the 30-day free trial period.
 
Miss S has told this service she has anxiety, and learning difficulties. 
Miss S contacted Experian to find out why payments had continued being taken from her 
account. Experian said they had no record of her cancelling her subscription. But as they 
could see she hadnt used the membership since 2018, they offered to refund Miss S £125, 
as a gesture of goodwill.
 
A member of Experian staff called Miss S to discuss this. Miss S said she was in a 
supermarket and didnt want to talk, but the call continued. Miss S contacted Experian to say 
this call had caused her to have a panic attack. This is because Experian wanted her to 
discuss things in a public place. Experian agreed this call shouldnt have continued and 
offered Miss S £50 for the worry this caused her.
 
Our Investigator considered Miss S complaint, she said in summary:
There was no evidence Miss S had contacted Experian to cancel the subscription 
before March 2021. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service couldnt consider Miss S concerns about how 
Experian handled the complaint because complaint handling alone isnt something 
we can investigate. 
Experian hadnt treated Miss S fairly when communicating with her because they 
hadnt considered her health, disabilities and difficulties with written correspondence. 
Because of this, our Investigator recommended Experian pay Miss S a further £100 
in addition to the £175 shed already been offered. 
Experian agreed to pay Miss S a further £100 to resolve the complaint.
 
Miss S didnt accept the Investigators findings. Although she understood we couldnt 
consider how Experian had handled her complaint, she felt she should get more 
compensation. Miss S said Experian should compensate her more for all it had put her 
through. 
As Miss S didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision setting what had happened and what I thought about that. Ive copied the relevant 
parts of this below and they form part of my final decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
cancellation of the subscription
Miss S says she cancelled her Experian subscription during the 30-day free trial period.
Experians records show Miss S subscription began in September 2018. And the last time
she logged into her account was also in September 2018. Theres no record of a
cancellation at this time. Experians contact records show the first time they received contact
from Miss S was when she emailed them in March 2021. In this email Miss S said she was
unhappy she was still being charged for her subscription.
Im aware that Miss S contacted her bank about the payments to Experian in March 2020 but
there isnt any record of Miss S also contacting Experian around the same time.
Ive seen nothing that shows Miss S did contact Experian before her email in March 2021.
So although Miss S is sure she cancelled the subscription with Experian before this, I dont
think Experian made an error by debiting membership fees from Miss S account.
Miss S said she felt she was being forced by Experian to accept the £125 they offered as a
gesture of goodwill (this was before they later increased it to £175). But having listened to
the calls where this offer is discussed, I dont agree Experian were trying to force Miss S to
accept this offer. They were asking Miss S to tell them whether she wanted to accept this or
not. And I can see Experian made this refund to Miss S card.
As they were offering Miss S a partial refund, I dont think it was unreasonable for Experian
to ask Miss S if that resolved things for her or if they could make the refund to her card. I
think Experian understood Miss S didnt accept the offer or agree this was fair.
Experians communication with Miss S
Ive reviewed all the written correspondence between Miss S and Experian. And Ive listened
to the phone calls she had with them.
Like our Investigator, Ive found that Miss S told Experian repeatedly about her health
conditions, learning difficulties and the particular difficulties she had understanding the
correspondence they had sent her.
Experian didnt take this into account or take appropriate steps to understand what Miss S
needed from them so that they could communicate with her effectively. This caused Miss S a
lot of worry and inconvenience, when she was already feeling very anxious.
Our Investigator thought Experian should pay Miss S a further £100 in recognition of the
distress caused. But having considered the impact Experians poor communication had on
Miss S, I intend to require Experian to pay Miss S a further £250.
I say this because during most of her calls with Experian Miss S sounds very distressed or
anxious. Miss S also mentioned during a telephone call with Experian, having had to speak
to her doctor because of how bad her anxiety had been as a result of dealing with them. And
I can see that she got in contact with the doctor again, following the telephone call in the
supermarket. So its clear Experians contact with Miss S caused significant worry and
distress.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I plan to uphold Miss S complaint in part.
To put things right, I intend to require Experian Limited to pay Miss S a total of £425.
Experian Limited may deduct from this amount any amounts theyve already paid to Miss S
in connection with this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Experian responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. 
Miss S responded to say she still felt further compensation was needed. She said this 
because of all the distress Experian had caused and the impact Experians actions had on 
her health  which included increased medication. Miss S also provided records from her 
doctor to show the contact shed had with them following the calls with Experian. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Miss S for taking the time to provide her further comments and information.
Ive thought carefully about what shes said and its clear to me theres been a serious 
impact on Miss S as a result of Experians actions. But the information Miss S has provided 
is information I was already aware of when I issued my provisional decision. This includes 
everything shed told us about shielding because of the pandemic, the call from Experian 
continuing in public causing Miss S to have a panic attack and having to call the doctor.
Because of this, having considered everything, I remain satisfied a total of £425 in 
recognition of the distress, inconvenience and the impact on her health, is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of her complaint.
 
As Miss S comments had already been taken into account and Experian accepted my 
provisional findings, my decision remains as set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss S complaint in part.
To put things right, I require Experian Limited to pay Miss S a total of £425.
Experian Limited may deduct from this amount any amounts theyve already paid to Miss S
in connection with this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman