DRN-2795373
The complaint
Mrs V complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to carry out an instruction to invest, which
led her to incur a financial loss.  
What happened
In early May 2020 Mrs V instigated a transfer from her cash ISA to a stocks and shares ISA
with HSBC. On both the application form and the transfer authority form Mrs V added a
handwritten note alongside her signature to say that she wanted the transferred £60,000 to
be invested 30% and 70% into the Global Balanced and Dynamic funds respectively.
HSBC then wrote to Mrs V, on 19 May 2020, to confirm that the transfer of the ISA had taken
place. It confirmed that the money had been allocated to the uninvested cash account within
the new ISA. The letter did not mention or confirm the requested investment.
Around a month later Mrs V, with her husband Mr V, checked on the new ISA and
discovered that the investment hadnt been made. They called HSBC to find out what had
happened, and it was explained that the instruction to invest written on the transfer forms
hadnt been actioned. It was further explained that HSBC required a separate instruction in 
respect of re-investment to be made once the transfer had completed.
The call handler apologised and confirmed that in situations where a note had been added to
the transfer form, as Mrs V had done, despite the standard process requiring a further
request, it was nevertheless common for the informal request to be actioned in any event.
He explained that he could make the investments for Mrs V as of that date, 18 June 2020,
and raise a complaint on her behalf. He explained that as part of that process the difference
in fund prices between that date and the earlier date of transfer would be considered.
Shortly after, on 5 August 2020, HSBC issued its final response on the complaint to Mrs V. It
explained that it didnt think the complaint should be upheld as it had been made clear on the
transfer forms and in the confirmation letter that the transferred money would be placed into
the uninvested cash account pending further instructions.
Mrs V referred the complaint to this service. But our investigator also didnt think the
complaint should be upheld. She said, in brief:  
HSBC had provided information indicating that the transferred money would be paid
into the uninvested cash account.
Mrs Vs written instructions had not been very clear. They hadnt given the full names
of the funds, so HSBC wouldnt have been able to proceed with the investment
without first contacting Mrs V.
It would, however, have been good customer service to contact Mrs V.
HSBC couldve done more to help but wasnt solely responsible for the loss incurred.
Mrs V didnt accept the investigators view. She said that it was an act of negligence to
ignore the written request to invest. And she highlighted that in the call of 18 June 2020 she 
had been repeatedly apologised to and felt thered been an assurance given that the loss 
would be made good. This was why shed invested at that point despite the price of the 
funds having risen.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view, the matter was referred to me to
review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I felt the complaint should be upheld, 
but only in in part. I said:
I think that when Mrs V completed the transfer forms and added the note explaining how 
she wanted the transferred money to be reinvested she ought reasonably to have been on 
notice that the instruction was potentially not being given in the appropriate way.
The fact that there was no dedicated part of the form/s where the investment instruction
could be added should I think have prompted her to make further enquiries about how the
process worked. I note that there was also some information on the form about transfers
being made into the uninvested cash account, albeit I accept this was not particularly
prominent.
And further, the letter Mrs V received, dated 19 March 2020, did make quite clear that the
money had been paid into the uninvested cash account. The first paragraph read:
Further to your request to transfer your investment(s) to us we can confirm receipt of
£60,000.00 from HSBC Uk Bank PLC. We have allocated the funds to the uninvested cash
account within your ISA Funds Portfolio.
The letter went on to explain:
You can withdraw or invest funds within your ISA Funds Portfolio uninvested cash account
by calling our Customer Service Team on the telephone number shown below or by
accessing the Global Investment Centre online through our Personal Internet Banking at
hsbc.co.uk.
Mrs V has said that she took this letter to be a confirmation that her instructions had been
carried out. But I dont think thats a wholly reasonable interpretation of the information
provided. I think that, having been put on notice that there could be an issue with the initial
handwritten instruction, I think that following receipt of this letter Mrs V ought reasonably to
have been aware there was a problem. And therefore, receipt of this letter marked a point in
the process where she could have checked what had happened. I think that if she had
contacted HSBC at this point, on around 20 May 2020, the situation wouldve been clarified,
and the investments made.
But, as noted, that isnt what happened, and it wasnt until 18 June 2020 that Mrs V
contacted HSBC to find out why the investments hadnt been made. On this call the member
of staff was very apologetic. He confirmed on several occasions that, while the formal
transfer and investment process was strictly speaking a two-stage process  the transfer
made then a further instruction given by phone or on-line to make the investment  it was not
unusual for an investment instruction be written on the transfer form, as Mrs V had done,
and in such circumstances the trading team would normally be informed and would contact
the customer to explain the situation.
He explained that he could do the trade for Mrs V and that a complaint would be considered.
And he was very encouraging about what the resolution would likely be  that the difference
in price of the two funds between 20 May 2020, when the investment could have been
made, and 18 June 2020, when it actually was made, would be considered.Listening to the call, I dont think that the member of staff was just trying to appease Mrs V
by saying that instructions added to the transfer form were usually acted upon. I think it was
an entirely genuine explanation of what normally happened. Clearly it was far from a
unique situation.
As such, while I accept that Mrs V could have mitigated the situation by acting upon the
letter of 19 May 2020, I think it is also the case that HSBC could, and probably should in light
of what the member of staff said, have acted on the written instruction, at least to get in
contact with Mrs V to explain the situation.
As such, Im currently of the view that Mrs V and HSBC share responsibility for what
happened. Both had clear opportunities to address the matter sooner. That being so, I think
a fair resolution to the complaint would be for Mrs V and HSBC to meet halfway on the loss.
So, HSBC should determine how many additional units wouldve been purchased for Mrs V
had the investments been made on 20 May 2020, as opposed to 18 June 2020, and add half
those amounts Mrs Vs holdings.
I appreciate that neither party is likely to be satisfied with this resolution. And I accept that
the matter is finely balanced. The letter sent to Mrs V on 19 May 2020 was not ambiguous
but equally, it seems clear that Mrs Vs instruction would generally have been acted upon.
And, even if it wasnt HSBCs normal process to act upon such instructions, I would likely
conclude that it would be reasonable for HSBC to have noted the written instruction and
contacted Mrs V to explain the situation.
HSBC responded to my provisional decision to say that although it didnt agree with all my 
conclusions, in an effort to conclude matters it was prepared to accept the decision and offer 
redress as outlined.
Mr V, on behalf of Mrs V, responded to say, in brief:
They had shared my provisional decision with acquaintances experienced in 
investment whod been surprised by HSBCs failure to put things right.
A review of the 18 June 2020 phone call confirmed the numerous apologies made to 
Mrs V and the statement by the member of staff that this was the first time a 
handwritten amendment to the form had not been actioned. 
They were surprised by HSBCs response not upholding the complaint following the 
staff members explanation of what would happen.
If Mrs V had been told to invest via phone or email, she wouldve done so. But as 
there was space on the forms, shed used them rather than including a letter. 
Mrs V expected the instruction to be completed and the letter of 19 May 2020 didnt 
directly inform her of any issue.
A line in the letter from HSBC regarding having already given instructions meant 
there was no reason for her to think the investment hadnt been made.
This had been a stressful process during which HSBC had shown disregard for 
investment principles and the liability of its staff, and it was remarkable that senior 
management hadnt taken responsibility for the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs V for their further submissions, which  in addition to looking back over all the related documentation  Ive given careful consideration. But having done so, 
Ive not been persuaded to change my view of the matter. 
This was undoubtably an unfortunate set of circumstances and I do have sympathy for 
Mrs Vs position, particularly given the information that was provided in the call of 18 June 
2020. But had that call not taken place, or if different information had been provided, I think it 
likely that I would not be upholding the complaint at all.
I think the resolution Ive proposed acknowledges that there were occasions where HSBC 
couldve provided better service  it missing an opportunity to act upon the handwritten 
instructions (although there was no absolute requirement for it to do so), and it then later set 
unreasonable expectations for Mrs V as to how the matter might be resolved. 
But the resolution also acknowledges that there was opportunity for Mrs V to mitigate the 
position. As I said in my provisional decision, I think its reasonable for Mrs V to have been 
aware that her handwritten instructions might not be seen, or not acted upon (for instance, 
its not uncommon for similar forms to simply be scanned without any human review or 
interaction). And then the letter of 19 May 2020 did, in my view, act to confirm that the 
investment hadnt been made. 
So, in all the circumstances, I remain satisfied that my proposed resolution  that the parties 
effectively meet halfway  is a fair and reasonable one.
Putting things right
HSBC should determine how many additional units in the two funds wouldve been 
purchased for Mrs V had her instruction been implemented on 20 May 2020, rather than 18 
June 2020.  
It should then arrange for half that number of units to be added to Mrs Vs ISA, which HSBC 
has confirmed can be done without affecting any allowances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to compensate Mrs V as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman