DRN-2129171
The complaint
Mrs D complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen Financial Services, 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. Her husband is also involved with her complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a used car was supplied to Mrs D under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services that she electronically signed in July 2019;
Volkswagen Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for 
ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage 
of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mrs D was about ten months old, had been driven for 
5,476 miles and had a price of £64,881;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
a fault with the cars adaptive cruise control occurred in December 2019 and was 
repaired by the dealer (the job card shows that the cars mileage was 11,925) but 
recurred again a few days later;
the car was returned to the dealer and it said that it was a known fault for which no fix 
was available  the car has remained with the dealer since then and Mrs D was 
provided with a courtesy car that she used until March 2020;
Volkswagen Financial Services offered to refund £773.51 to Mrs D (which is 10% of 
the monthly payments for six months) but she wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service;
the investigator said that it wasnt fair that Mrs D should keep a car that had no 
expectation of repair so he recommended that Volkswagen Financial Services 
should: end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mrs D (and with 
allowance given for any damage caused by the fault); and refund her deposit and all 
payments made under the agreement since the date that the courtesy car was 
intended to be returned in March 2020  all with interest;
Volkswagen Financial Services has accepted the investigators recommendations but 
Mrs Ds husband, on her behalf, says that Mrs D should receive more compensation;
Mrs D was able to use the car until December 2019, when the fault developed, and in 
that time she was able to drive it for 6,449 miles  the dealer provided her with a  
courtesy car which was due to be returned in March 2020  that didnt happen and 
Mrs D says that she stopped using the car then but shed used it to drive more than 
3,500 miles;
I sympathise with Mrs D for the issues that shes had with the car  but I consider 
that the outcome recommended by the investigator is a fair and reasonable way of 
dealing with her complaint;
the agreement and the invoice for the car show that Mrs D paid a deposit of £3,000 
for it - I consider that its fair and reasonable that the car be rejected and that she 
should receive a refund of that deposit with interest;
I also consider that its fair and reasonable that Volkswagen Financial Services 
should refund to Mrs D the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement 
since the date in March 2020 that it was intended that the courtesy car would be 
returned, with interest; and
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that more compensation is 
justified in these circumstances so I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Volkswagen Financial Services to pay any other compensation to Mrs D or 
to take any action other than as described above in response to her complaint.
Putting things right
I find that its fair and reasonable for Volkswagen Financial Services to allow Mrs D to reject 
the car and for it to take the other actions described above.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and I order Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen Financial Services, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected  both 
at no cost to Mrs D and without charge for any damage caused by the fault with 
it.
2. Refund to Mrs D the deposit that she paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mrs D the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement 
since the date in March 2020 that it was intended that the courtesy car would be 
returned.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Volkswagen Financial Services to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 4 above. Volkswagen Financial Services must give Mrs D a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman