DRN-2896428
The complaint
Mr C says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. He says he 
could not afford the loan repayments. He says he struggled to repay these alongside his 
essential living costs. He thinks Mr Lender shouldve seen this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one payday loan Mr Lender provided to Mr C in December 2013. Mr 
C borrowed £300 and he was due to repay £405 after 20 days. Mr C wasnt able to repay 
this. He has repaid some of the loan over time, but most of it remains outstanding. The 
remaining debt has now been passed to a third-party debt collection agency. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the checks Mr Lender made were 
proportionate and these showed that the loan was affordable for Mr C. Mr C didnt agree with 
what our adjudicator said. He said he was borrowing from other lenders at the time and that 
the interest charged was too high. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
As Ive said above for this loan Mr C needed to repay £405 around three weeks after taking 
the loan. Ive seen a record of the information he provided when he completed the loan 
application. Mr C said he had a monthly income of £1,600. The credit reference agency 
information Mr Lender obtained doesnt show that Mr C had any financial problems. So, it 
was reasonable for Mr Lender to think that Mr C would be able to repay this loan. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Mr Lender was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr C mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Cs circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to rely 
on the information it obtained. I wouldnt have expected to do more here, for what was only 
one loan. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Mr Lender did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable. Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint about it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman