DRN-1504428
 
The complaint
Mr K says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about five loans Mr Lender provided to Mr K between October 2014 and 
May 2016. Mr Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 01/10/2014 02/03/2015 6 £200.00 £103.33
2 02/03/2015 25/08/2015 6 £500.00 £183.33
3 16/09/2015 23/10/2015 1 £150.00 £195.60
4 07/11/2015 25/01/2016 3 £350.00 £170.79
5 11/05/2016 24/06/2016 1 £100.00 £133.44
Mr Ks complaint has been reviewed by two of our adjudicators. The first adjudicator partly 
upheld Mr Ks and thought loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have been given because the borrowing 
was becoming unsustainable. Mr Lender disagreed saying it had questioned Mr K about his 
finances when he applied for loan 4 and loan 5 was for a much smaller amount. Mr Lender 
asked for an ombudsmans review.
Whist the complaint was waiting for an ombudsmans review, a second adjudicator reviewed 
it, but they didnt think any of Mr Ks loans should be upheld. Mr K disagreed. 
As the complaint was already waiting for an ombudsmans review, it has been passed to me 
to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Having done this, Im 
intending not to uphold Mr Ks complaint, and Ive explained my reasons for doing so below.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
The first adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3.    
Mr K hasnt provided any further evidence or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be 
making any further findings on these loans because these loans no longer appear to be in 
dispute. This just leaves me to consider loans 4 and 5.
Looking at loan 4 in isolation, it could be argued that a pattern was beginning to emerge 
which might suggest Mr K was struggling to repay the loans sustainably  the loan was for a 
larger amount than loan 3 and it was the second highest amount Mr K had borrowed. But 
there was then almost a four-month gap between loan 4 and loan 5. And the amount Mr K 
borrowed for loan 5 decreased compared to loan 4 and the repayment instalments were only 
a small percentage of his declared disposable income.
So, based on what Mr Lender would have been aware of at the time, I dont think, at this 
point, that it would have known that Mr K was using these loans in an unsustainable manner, 
because the loan amounts fluctuated and there are regular gaps between each of the loans. 
However, when thinking about patterns of lending, we also consider the wider picture of 
Mr Ks lending relationship. Looking back through how Mr K managed his finances I can see 
that there was at least a two-week gap between him repaying one loan and taking out a new 
loan. I appreciate this pattern appears to be regular, but I dont think that means that Mr K, 
by loan 4, was reliant on short term loans from Mr Lender. Additionally, there was a four-
month gap between loans 4 and 5. So, given the circumstances, I dont consider it 
reasonable for Mr Lender to refund this loan, or loan 5 for this reason. 
Although, I dont think Mr Lender made an error by approving these loans based solely on 
the way that Mr K was using these loans, I do however think that the checks it carried out 
before approving loans 4 and 5 didnt go far enough. 
Mr Lender has told us that for loans 4 and 5 it carried out affordability checks including 
asking Mr K some additional questions about his financial situation before it lent him loan 4. 
But by now, Mr K had been borrowing off and on from Mr Lender for nearly a year. And like 
Ive said above, loan 4 was his second largest loan to date. So, I think that this should have 
given Mr Lender cause for concern about what Mr K was telling it about his financial position. 
So, thinking about, the number of loans and the time in debt I think it had now reached the 
point (when loan 4 was approved) where Mr Lender could no longer rely on what Mr K was 
telling it about his financial position. I think Mr Lender needed to take steps to verify the 
information Mr K was providing. And it could have done this several ways, such as asking to 
see his bank statements, or for copies of his payslips and/or bills. But, in saying this, Mr K hasnt provided this service with any information about his financial 
position at the time both loans were applied for, such as bank statements or a credit file. 
Therefore, without any further information, I can only conclude that while the checks           
Mr Lender carried out didnt go far enough, I cant say an error has been made as I dont 
know whether it would have thought these loans were affordable for Mr K. Therefore, I cant 
say Mr Lender was wrong to have provided these loans. 
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr Y, but I dont think Mr Lender acted irresponsibly 
when it approved loans 4 and 5 and so I dont uphold his complaint. And I hope my 
explanation will help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman