DRN-3684941
The complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Ltd closed his account without a reason. He would like his 
account reinstated.
What happened
Mr B had an account with Revolut.
On 16 October 2020 Revolut reviewed the account. Following the review Revolut requested 
additional information from Mr B. Mr B provided the information requested.
Following the review Revolut decided to close Mr Bs account and did so on 28 October 
2020. Revolut gave Mr B 30 days to remove the funds from his account. The account was 
closed on 12 November 2020.
Mr B reapplied for another Revolut account. His application was declined.
Mr B complained to Revolut. Revolut said they had closed the original account in line with 
the terms of the account and Mr B was not eligible to open another account with Revolut.
Mr B complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. He 
thought Revolut hadnt done anything wrong when they reviewed and later closed Mr Bs 
account. They could take a commercial decision on whether they wanted Mr B as a 
customer. He didnt think Revolut needed to provide a reason for the closure.
Mr B was unhappy with the view. He said he hadnt been treated nicely by Revolut He had 
provided them with the information they had requested. He was still unhappy they hadnt 
given a reason for their actions.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Bs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Revolut were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Bs account. 
Revolut were entitled to ask Mr B for information regarding his source of funds in order to 
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations.
Mr B has said that he provided the information requested. However, the information on the 
chats between Revolut and Mr B suggest that Revolut werent entirely satisfied with the 
information Mr B provided and I can see they were asking for further information. Which they 
are entitled to do.
Revolut decided to close Mr Bs account. 
Ive next looked at Revoluts decision to close Mr Bs account. Banks are entitled to end their 
business relationship with a customer, as long as its done fairly and is in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account say that Revolut 
can close an account in certain circumstances immediately. Revolut told Mr B his account 
would close on 28 October 2020 with immediate effect.  Given that Revolut werent satisfied 
with the information Mr B provided to them, I dont think thats unreasonable. So, it was 
entitled to close the account as its already done, and I cant say Revolut has treated Mr B 
unfairly. It follows I wont be asking Revolut to reinstate the account.
Mr B is concerned that he hasnt been given a reason for the closure. He thinks this is unfair 
and he wants to know why Revolut closed his account. Whilst Mr B may have expected to be 
given the reasons for the account closure. Revolut isnt required to give him a specific 
reason. And I can understand Mr Bs frustration that he hasnt been provided a detailed 
explanation. But as the investigator has explained, Revolut is under no obligation to provide 
this information to him, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say Revolut have done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr B this information. 
Mr B has said that he applied for an account with Revolut following the closure of his original 
account and that application was declined.  Revolut are entitled to decide who they offer 
accounts to, and they have the commercial freedom to make this decision. Any financial 
institution can decide its criteria for who it offers accounts to, and this service wont interfere 
with that decision. It follows Revolut are therefore entitled to decline to open an account for a 
potential customer and having looked at the information I am satisfied they didnt act unfairly 
here.
I understand my decision will be disappointing to Mr B, but Revolut have acted fairly when 
they reviewed, closed and declined to reopen an account for Mr B, and I wont be asking 
them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman