DRN-3261715
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed in applying a payment to their 
mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made an overpayment of just over £200 to their mortgage on 27 July 2021. 
This wasnt credited to their mortgage account until 3 August 2021. Barclays explained that 
this is because their account is on an historic system which only allows overpayments at 
certain times. Because of this, Mr and Mrs S were overcharged a small amount of interest 
the following month. Barclays refunded £1.50 to the mortgage account to reflect this. 
Barclays upheld the complaint due to the failed call back and issues with a previous 
complaint and paid £50 compensation to Mr and Mrs S. It later increased this offer to £100. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought the £100 offered was fair in 
the circumstances so didnt Barclays needed to do anything more. Mr and Mrs S didnt 
agree. They said the compensation had been paid for a different error to the one referred to 
us. So, the complaint has been passed to me to review and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has told us that Mr and Mrs S mortgage account is held on one of its older systems 
and that, due to limitations with that system, overpayments can only be applied at certain 
times. Im aware Mr and Mrs S have complained about this before on a number of 
occasions. So, Im satisfied they were aware of this issue. 
I can see that Barclays quickly refunded the additional interest Mr and Mrs S had been 
charged, so they havent lost out financially here. Whilst it was inconvenient for them to have 
been overcharged and to have had to contact Barclays again following the failed call back, I 
think Barclays resolved the matter quickly for them.
Barclays initially offered (and paid) £50 because Mr S was told he would receive a call back 
from a manager and didnt. Again, this mustve been frustrating. Barclays has since offered a 
further £50. 
I appreciate that, on top of the initial issue about being overcharged, it must have been all 
the more frustrating not to have received a call back when promised. But I need to keep in 
mind that Mr and Mrs S were already aware of the limitations of Barclays systems. And 
when things went wrong again, Barclays acted quickly to put things right. It also recognised 
the inconvenience caused by its failure to call Mr S when promised. In these circumstances, 
I think Barclays compensation offer fairly reflected what went wrong and the impact it had. 
So, I dont think further compensation is warranted here. 
Mr S says the £50 compensation Barclays has paid is in relation to other complaint points, 
not this one. However, Barclays has shown us evidence (the payment quoting this complaint 
reference number) that this was in fact in relation to this particular complaint. I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs S may be confused as they have made a number of complaints 
to Barclays. 
Its unclear if Mr and Mrs S have received the additional £50 offered. Ill leave it to them to 
decide if they still wish to accept this. But if they do, they should let our investigator or 
Barclays know. Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman