DRN-2913777
The complaint
Mr D complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited failed to collect his car on the 
agreed date following a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a claim on his motor insurance policy, Mr Ds car was written off. It was arranged 
with his insurers, Advantage, that the car would be collected from his home. But Mr D says 
no one came.
After contacting Advantage, it was agreed with Mr D that the car would be collected the 
following day. But again no one showed up. So Mr D complained. He said hed used two 
days annual leave which had been wasted and he wanted reimbursement for two days 
salary. 
Advantage apologised for its failure to collect the car on both occasions and offered £100 
compensation. It said it could arrange for the car to be collected without Mr D needing to be 
present so that he didnt have to take any further time off. 
Mr D wasnt happy that hed not been given this option at the outset. And he didnt think the 
compensation offered adequately reflected the trouble and upset hed suffered as a result of 
what happened. So he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed Advantages system notes which showed that a driver had arrived 
at Mr Ds home on the first agreed date. These notes say there was no answer on the phone 
or the door, and the car wasnt there. On the second agreed date, the notes say the driver 
ran out of time so couldnt complete the collection. 
In addition, our investigator reviewed the information provided by Mr D. This showed hed 
booked several days annual leave for that week  not just the agreed date for collection  
and that hed had the option to work from home at that time. She didnt think hed suffered a 
financial loss as hed been paid for his annual leave days. 
Based on this, she didnt uphold the complaint as she was persuaded the compensation 
offered was fair in the circumstances. As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres some dispute over whether Advantage came to collect the car on the first agreed 
date. The notes provided indicate that a driver arrived at Mr Ds home but there was no 
answer and the car wasnt there. But Mr D says he didnt receive a call or a knock on the 
door. He says the car wasnt outside his home as he had to park it on the street.
I cant say for certain what happened on this date as I wasnt there. I think its unlikely Mr D 
wouldve ignored a call or knock when he was waiting at home specifically for his car to be 
collected. And Im mindful that the driver couldve seen the car wasnt there and made an 
assumption Mr D wasnt home. 
Whats not in dispute is that Mr Ds car wasnt collected on the two agreed dates. So I dont 
need to decide whether Advantage has done something wrong here  it has. What I need to 
decide is whether it has done enough to put things right taking into account the impact this 
has had on Mr D. Im satisfied it has, and Ill explain why.
Mr D took time off work as annual leave. And Im sure it wasnt his intention to spend the 
whole time inside waiting for his car to be collected. So I appreciate his frustration that two 
days of his holiday were used in this way. I can also understand why hed be further upset to 
find out the car could be collected without him needing to be present. 
Whilst Im mindful that Mr D couldve worked from home during this time, hed already 
booked the week off work. So I dont think its reasonable to expect him to cancel his days 
off, especially when it wasnt clear what time Advantage would be collecting the car. And he 
didnt find out the driver wasnt coming until the end of the day. So Im not persuaded Mr D 
couldve done anything to mitigate the trouble he was put to by Advantage. 
That said, Mr D hasnt suffered a financial loss here. He was paid for his annual leave days 
and whilst he may not have spent them doing what he intended, he was still able to have a 
day off from work. So I dont think its appropriate to ask Advantage to pay his wages. 
As Ive explained, I agree Mr D wouldve been frustrated and inconvenienced by what 
happened. But Im mindful that this was only for two days, after which Advantage offered a 
solution that allowed Mr D to have his car collected without any further impact on his time. 
Based on this, Im satisfied £100 compensation fairly reflects the trouble and upset he was 
caused. As Advantage has already sent Mr D a cheque for this amount, Im not asking it to 
do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman