DRN-3964987
The complaint
R, a limited company, has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
turned down its business interruption insurance claim after its business was affected by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. R is also unhappy about the service it received from Hiscox.
Mr and Mrs B, directors of R, have brought the complaint on Rs behalf.
What happened
R runs an estate agency. It had a business interruption insurance policy with Hiscox.
In April 2020 R made a claim to Hiscox for its business interruption losses after its business 
was impacted by the pandemic. On the next day Hiscox declined the claim.
That same month the Financial Conduct Authority pursued a business interruption insurance 
test case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings, including 
different types of Hiscox policies, and how they should respond to the pandemic. The 
Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January 2021 (The Financial Conduct Authority 
& Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1). 
R reopened its business on 14 May 2020.
Following the outcome of the test case R contacted Hiscox again about the claim. In 
February 2021 Hiscox said in order to establish cover under the policy R was required to 
show that its premises had been subject to a mandatory closure, which resulted in its 
business being:
(i) unable to use a distinct part of its premises, or 
(ii) unable to use its premises for a distinct service or part of its business.
It didnt think estate agents had been required to close by the Government. 
R said its staff were unable to go into properties or conduct viewings. Its staff couldnt work 
remotely.
Hiscox said although R hadnt been able to carry out property viewings, R could have 
continued to trade by other means such as by email or online. Its staff could also have used 
the premises for work that couldnt be done remotely.
R complained to Hiscox. It didnt change its decision about the claim. But it accepted that it 
hadnt responded to Rs brokers communications as promptly as it should have done. It paid 
R £150 compensation for this.
R brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He didnt think estate agents had been required to close as a result of the lockdown 
restrictions. So he didnt think Hiscox had treated R unfairly in declining its claim. He also 
thought compensation of £150 was fair and reasonable to compensate R for service delivery 
failings.
As R didnt agree with our Investigators view, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Rs business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Hiscox has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim. 
There is one section of the business interruption section that might be relevant to a claim like 
Rs. That is the public authority clause in the policy which covered business interruption 
losses caused by:
your inability to use the office due to restrictions imposed by a public authority during the 
period of insurance following:

an occurrence of a notifiable human disease.
It doesnt appear to be disputed that Covid-19 falls within the policy definition of a notifiable 
human disease. There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an 
occurrence of Covid-19. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to have been either at 
or in the vicinity of the office. And I dont consider that the restrictions needed to have 
specifically targeted the claimant business alone. As such, this section of the policy would 
potentially provide cover to a business that had been unable to use their insured premises. 
The next question I need to consider is whether R was unable to use its premises. R said it 
believed it was required to close as a result of the Governments actions in response to the 
pandemic. As an estate agent, it doesnt seem R would have been specifically required to 
close by the regulations introduced in March 2020. The Health Protection (Coronavirus, 
Business Closure) Regulations of 21 March 2020 and later regulations of a similar nature 
required some businesses, like non-essential retail shops, pubs and dine-in restaurants to 
close. But, significantly, estate agents were not on the list of businesses required to close. A 
large number of other businesses from manufacturers to professional services and others 
were allowed to remain open.
Ive looked at what the Government advised people on moving home in March 2020 
(https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/ukgwa/20200504084856/https:/www.gov.uk/
guidance/government-advice-on-home-moving-during-the-coronavirus-covid-19-
outbreak). It urged people involved with moving home to adapt and be flexible to alter 
their usual processes. For people looking to put their homes on the market it said:
Getting your home onto the market may be more challenging than usual in this period. 
There should be no visitors to your home. You can speak to Estate Agents over the 
phone and they will be able to give you general advice about the local property market and handle certain matters remotely but they will not be able to start actively marketing 
your home in the usual manner.
It also told estate agents:
In line with advice for certain businesses to close, agents should not open branches to 
the public during this period, or visit peoples homes to carry out market appraisals.
Rs professional body told its members on 24 March 2020 that according to a senior civil 
servant, estate agents were not essential businesses under the regulations and therefore 
their view was that agents should close their offices immediately. The civil servant had 
also said that there should not be any in-person viewings, routine inspections or house 
moves.
Membership of the professional body referred to by R is optional. That body offers a 
range of benefits to its members including qualifications, guidance and services. I dont 
think it can be classed as a public authority.
I also agree that the restrictions imposed dont always have to have the force of law. But I 
do consider that there must be a mandatory instruction that is given by a public authority. 
In any event it seems to me that the measures referred to above were designed to 
reduce the spread of Covid-19 as opposed to the prevention of access to Rs premises. I 
dont think there was action or advice given by a public authority which prevented R from 
using its premises.
I appreciate these regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would likely have 
had an impact on businesses that were able to remain open. For example, the restrictions on 
movement that required people to remain at home without a reasonable excuse. But the 
reasonable excuses included both to travel to work and to move house. I also note that 
estate agents were able to offer online viewings of properties before physical viewings were 
permitted in May 2020. 
Additionally, the policy wording requires there to have been an inability to use the office. The 
term inability to use in relation to policies with a similar wording to Rs was considered as 
part of the test case and the related judgment in the High Court. 
The High Court discussed whether these businesses (referred to as Category 5 
businesses) had suffered a prevention of access to their premises. Even though the court 
was considering a different type of clause, I think its findings are still relevant. Lord 
Justice Flaux said at paragraph 335:
Category 5 consists of businesses not listed in the 26 March Regulations such as 
manufacturing, accountants, lawyers, recruitment agencies and construction. These 
businesses were not ordered to close and were thus permitted to remain open. We agree 
 that it cannot be said that there was a prevention of access  in relation to any of 
those businesses. It is nothing to the point that clients or customers did not visit the 
offices of their accountant, lawyer or financial adviser because of the restrictions on 
movement imposed by Regulation 6 of the 26 March Regulations and conducted their 
business by Zoom or the like or by telephone. The offices were not required to close and 
at most there was an impediment or hindrance on the use of the premises, nothing which 
amounted to a prevention of access. To the extent that professional firms such as 
solicitors and accountants told their staff to work from home and not come into the office, 
that was due to the government advice to work from home where possible and due to the 
general concerns about the pandemic, not due to any actions or advice of government 
preventing access to the relevant premises.When the test case went to the Supreme Court, the court said at paragraph 129: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover all 
business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following an 
occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is caused by the 
policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136:  an inability of use has to be established; not 
an impairment or hindrance in use. 
The court did also make it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that 
arose out an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. But I 
dont consider R has shown it was unable to use its office for a discrete part of its business. 
So, whilst I do not doubt that if it had remained open throughout the first lockdown, R would 
have suffered a disruption to the normal operation of its business, the policy requires that 
there be an inability to use its office. And I do not consider R suffered such an inability to use 
its office. As such, I think Hiscox acted fairly in declining Rs claim under this section. 
Lastly, Ive looked at how Hiscox handled the claim. When R first contacted Hiscox with an 
enquiry about cover, it was told straightaway that there was no cover under the policy. After 
the judgment of the Supreme Court in the test case R lodged the claim again on 26 January 
2021. On 4 February 2021 Hiscox told R the claim probably wasnt covered. On 4 August 
2021 Hiscox gave R its formal decision to decline the claim. There was further 
correspondence between R, Rs broker and Hiscox in 2021/2022 when Hiscox didnt 
respond promptly and had to be chased several times. I do think Hiscox should have 
provided its final decision regarding the claim sooner and I can see that it must have been 
inconvenient for R to have to keep chasing Hiscox and for it to wait so long for a final 
decision. However the final decision was consistent with what Hiscox had said several 
months earlier. Overall I think compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable to compensate R 
for the inconvenience caused by this delay. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome R was hoping for but having considered things very 
carefully, I dont uphold its complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman