DRN-4136032
The complaint
Mr V has complained about the information provided by Bennetts Motorcycling Services 
Limited (Bennetts) when he bought his motorcycle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr V bought motorcycle insurance through Bennetts in 2016. He bought a new policy 
through Bennetts in 2020 and the policy renewed in 2021. Mr V said one of the things that 
he looks for when buying a policy is the ability of the broker to handle claims smoothly.
In 2022, Mr V claimed on his policy after his motorcycle was stolen. Bennetts transferred   
Mr V to the insurer of the policy to deal with the claim. When Mr V experienced problems 
with the claim, he asked Bennetts to help. Bennetts said it was for the insurer to deal with 
the claim but ultimately raised complaints with the insurer for him. 
Mr V was unhappy with this, as hed understood from Bennetts website that it would deal 
with claims. 
Bennetts said its role as a broker was to arrange and administer the policy and not to act as 
the insurer. Bennetts said that it used to have a motorcycle claims team but it was phased 
out 20 years previously and insurers now deal with claims themselves. It said it did not have 
access to the insurers database and so could not provide information on Mr Vs claim but its 
commercial team could contact insurers if a customer has any concerns. 
Bennetts said its contact centre staff were not claims trained and it would not expect them to 
comment on Mr Vs claim as they would not have access to the full facts. Bennetts said it 
makes its customers aware that its claims line is administered by a third party.
Mr V was unhappy with Bennetts response and brought his complaint to our service. He 
was also unhappy about Bennetts disclosure of commission but, as that has now been 
resolved, I am not going to comment on that aspect of his complaint any further in this 
decision. 
Mr V provided screenshots from Bennetts website which said:
Unfortunately accidents do happen and being involved in a collision or having 
your motorcycle stolen is traumatic enough without having to deal with a 
complicated, stressful and lengthy claims process. That's why youve chosen to 
insure your motorcycle with Bennetts. 
Our claims process couldn't be simpler
Accidents and thefts can happen at any time. So, youll want to know that you 
can talk to us if the unexpected happens. Our dedicated UK-based claims team 
are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week - even on Sundays and Bank 
Holidays! 
Under the heading Why choose Bennetts insurance it says:
We are good at claims: We have an excellent bike specialist claims team who 
can be contacted 24 hours a day, every day. We are here to help when you really 
need it the most.
Mr V said that Bennetts website gave the impression that it would handle claims but that 
was not true. Mr V asked for fair compensation for falsely claiming that it helps the insured 
when it does not. He said £100 would be a fair and reasonable amount to settle his 
complaint. 
Bennetts said that it has a first notification of loss claims line which is run by a third party 
company on its behalf. It said that some insurers delegate responsibility to this third party 
company to handle claims on their behalf. However, Mr Vs insurer was one which handled 
claims themselves. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Vs complaint and recommended it be upheld. She thought 
Bennetts had provided misleading and unclear information when selling the policy and 
recommended Bennetts pay Mr V £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this had caused. 
Mr V accepted the suggested outcome but Bennetts did not. Bennetts did not think the 
information it provided was misleading and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When selling a policy, a firm has a duty to provide clear, fair and not misleading information 
so a policyholder can decide whether the policy is suitable for them. 
Mr V has provided screenshots from Bennetts website. Bennetts has not suggested that the 
screenshots do not reflect the information on its website when Mr V bought his policy in 2020 
or at the renewal in 2021, so I am persuaded that the screenshots most likely show the 
information which was available to Mr V. I have looked at Bennetts website and note that 
the wording has changed, although Bennetts do not accept that this is because it was 
previously unclear or misleading. 
Having considered the information given on Bennetts website, along with all of the other 
evidence provided, I do not think Bennetts provided Mr V with clear information about its 
involvement with the claims process. I understand that it is the insurer who deals with the 
claims and that Bennetts did not have the information available to give to Mr V. However, I 
think the extracts from Bennetts website, which I have quoted in the background, indicated 
that Bennetts would deal with claims. I say this because the website referred to our claims 
process, our dedicated claims team and in particular, We are good at claims: We have an 
excellent bike specialist claims team We are here to help when you really need it the 
most. In my view that supports Mr Vs belief that Bennetts would help him with a claim. 
A document called about our insurance services contained within Mr Vs policy documents 
includes information about claims. This says:
In the event of a claim on your policy, your insurer will be responsible for the 
claim. Your insurer may delegate the management of the claim to the Bennetts 
Claims Team who will act on behalf of your insurer.
I think this makes it clearer than the website that the insurer will be responsible for claims. However, its not enough to persuade me that the overall information was clear enough 
when Mr V bought his policy, specifically the information about claims on Bennetts website. 
Bennetts said that it makes it clear that a third party runs its claims line. However, the 
website says our claims team which I think implies that the claims team belongs to 
Bennetts. I have not seen anything which persuades me that Bennetts made it clear that a 
third party ran the claims line. And even if it did, this would not persuade me that it was clear 
to Mr V, from the information available to him during the sale of the policy, that Bennetts 
would not help him with a claim.  
While I dont find it unusual for Bennetts to have appointed a third party company to manage 
its first notification of loss claims line, I do not think the information it has provided on its 
website, or any other documents that Ive seen, was sufficient to make this clear to Mr V 
when buying his policy. Therefore, I do not think that Bennetts provided Mr V with 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, I have considered the impact of this 
on Mr V. 
Mr V explained that support during claims is something that was important to him when 
looking to buy a policy. So I can understand that he was frustrated to discover that Bennetts 
would not be able to help him deal with his claim when he needed to make one. And I can 
see that finding out that Bennetts did not offer the service he thought it did caused him 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
As I believe Bennetts caused Mr V distress and inconvenience by providing unclear and 
misleading information on its website during the sale of the policy, I think it is fair and 
reasonable that it compensates Mr V for that. I think the £100 Mr V has asked for is a fair 
and reasonable amount for Bennetts to pay.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Bennetts Motorcycling Services 
Limited to pay Mr V £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman