DRN-1916893
 
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs S are representing the estate of the late Mr S. Theyre complaining about 
Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Ltd (LV) because of a substantial delay in the 
payment of the death benefit due on his term life insurance policy.
What happened
In 2001, Mr A took out a pension term insurance policy designed to pay £250,000 on his 
death. When the policy was arranged, Mr S nominated his wife as the beneficiary who would 
receive any policy benefit directly and outside of his estate.
In 2017, premiums went unpaid and the policy lapsed. Cover was reinstated after Mr S 
contacted LV. But LV says it couldnt reinstate the original policy due to changes in pension 
rules and so cover was set up as a standard term insurance policy instead. Because the 
original policy couldnt continue, LV says the nomination of Mrs S as beneficiary was also no 
longer valid.
Sadly, Mr S died in August 2018. Because Mrs S was no longer the nominated beneficiary, 
LV initially said it could only pay the death benefit to his estate rather than to her directly. But 
after further consideration, it agreed to pay the death benefit to Mrs S and the claim was 
settled in July 2019. LV also:
added simple interest at 8% per year to the death benefit from the date of Mr Ss death to 
the date the claim was paid;
paid £831 to HMRC, which was due because the original pension term insurance ceased to 
be eligible for UK tax relief after April 2011; and
sent £500 as additional compensation to Mrs S. I understand she didnt accept this amount 
and destroyed the cheque.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He accepted cover had been 
reinstated using a new policy but said this wasnt communicated clearly enough as LV itself 
had accepted. He said this could have cost Mr S the opportunity to take action to make sure 
benefits were payable direct to Mrs S, for example by putting the policy in trust. But he also 
felt LV had already taken adequate steps to put things right and that no further 
compensation is due.
Mr B and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators assessment. Mr B seems to accept the 
amount paid by LV covered the financial loss caused by its errors. But he thinks it should 
pay considerable additional compensation of between £2,000 and £5,000 to compensate 
Mrs S for the considerable trouble and upset caused by the delay in paying the policy 
benefits. He provided detailed submissions setting out the reasons for his view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions that no further compensation is 
due and Ill explain why.
Before going any further, I also offer Mrs S my condolences for her loss at what I realise 
must still be a difficult time.
Mr B has made extensive submissions in support of this complaint and I read these carefully. 
But I wont try and address every point hes raised in this decision. Instead, Ill concentrate 
on the issues I believe are central to the outcome of the complaint.
Mr Ss policy lapsed in 2017 when premiums were missed and Im satisfied LV was entitled 
to stop his cover in that situation. Once Mr S arranged to restart payments, LV was able to 
restart his cover. But due to changes in pension rules, it couldnt reinstate the original policy. 
Instead, LV says it simply changed the cover to a standard term insurance with essentially 
the same benefits (term and sum assured). In my view, that was a reasonable step to take in 
those circumstances. 
An unfortunate consequence of this action, and a very significant one as it turned out in this 
case, was that the nomination of Mrs S as beneficiary ceased to be valid. But I dont see 
how this could have been avoided.
I note Mr B disputes that a different policy was actually established. But I think the key point 
is rather that under the pension rules it simply wasnt possible for LV to reinstate the original 
policy. So other than changing the cover to a standard term insurance, the only other option 
would have been not to restart cover at all.
LV conceded, and I agree, that it didnt communicate the situation as clearly as it should 
have. If the implications of what it was proposing had been made clearer, its possible Mr S 
would have taken other steps, for example putting the policy in trust, so the benefits could be 
paid direct to Mrs S.
The principal aim of any award I make is to restore the position Mrs S would be in but for 
LVs errors. If LV had communicated more clearly and Mr S had put the policy into trust, the 
policy benefit would have been paid to his wife immediately on his death. By eventually 
paying the benefit to Mrs S with appropriate interest from the date of death to the date of 
payment to compensate for a range of potential losses, Im satisfied LV took reasonable 
steps to restore the correct financial position. The rate of interest applied by LV is consistent 
with what we often award to consumers whove been deprived of the use of money and Im 
satisfied its a fair and reasonable approach in this case. 
Mr B doesnt seem to be disputing this point. I think its also relevant to note at this point that 
this would also be the correct approach to compensate for the delay in payment even if LV 
didnt actually establish an alternative policy and the original continued as Mr B has argued. 
Mrs Ss financial loss would ultimately be the same in either situation and its for this reason 
that I dont think its necessary to address Mr Bs submissions on this point.
The issue that remains unresolved here is the compensation Mr B says Mrs S is due for the 
unnecessary trouble and upset caused by the delay in receiving payment from LV. Ive read 
what Mr B has said about her situation at the time of and shortly after her husbands death 
and I can see that any delay in receiving such a significant sum on which shed been relying 
would have been very upsetting and doubtless put her to considerable trouble.
But in terms of compensation, I can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and 
upset to its customer. Mrs S wasnt the customer in this situation, Mr S was as the 
policyholder. So Im not in a position to award her additional compensation.This notwithstanding, LV did previously offer Mrs S £500 for her trouble and upset. I 
appreciate she didnt accept it at the time, but Ive seen nothing to indicate the offer has 
been withdrawn. Either she or Mr B can contact LV directly to discuss this if, after further 
reflection, Mrs S decides she would now like to accept it.
As Ive already noted, LV made a payment of £831 to HMRC in respect of tax relief Mr S 
hadnt actually been eligible for since 2011. LV didnt say this payment was made with the 
intention of compensating Mrs S for her trouble and upset and, in light of some of Mr Bs 
comments in response to the investigators assessment, I want to be clear that Im not 
suggesting it was.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment for Mrs S and isnt what she was 
hoping to hear. But I do hope the explanation Ive provided at least helps her and Mr B to 
understand the reasons behind it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint as Im satisfied LV 
has already taken appropriate steps to resolve it. If Mrs S now wishes to accept the 
additional £500 LV previously offered, she or Mr B can contact the business directly to 
discuss this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
James Biles
Ombudsman