DRN-2856121
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc made an entry about him ion the CIFAS fraud 
prevention database in connection with a mortgage application.
What happened
Mr M and a third party had a joint mortgage with Santander. In 2015, they applied for further 
borrowing and Santander considered the application, but refused it.
Some years later, Mr M discovered that Santander had also made an entry about him on the 
CIFAS database. This is a cross-industry fraud prevention database which allows financial 
services providers to share relevant information, subject to safeguards.
Mr M complained as he said that he had not committed fraud in respect of the mortgage 
application. Santander initially refused his complaint, but Mr M complained again and also 
complained to CIFAS. Santander agreed to remove the entry in 2019. It said that it believed 
it had been reasonable to record it in 2015, but as it had not retained the evidence in support 
of its decision, it would remove the marker now.
Mr M complained about the impact of the marker. He said it had led to him being refused 
credit and access to bank accounts in both his personal and professional lives. He wanted 
Santander to pay substantial compensation for both his financial losses and for the upset 
caused.
Our investigator thought that it was fair that Santander removed the marker in light of the fact 
that it no longer retained the evidence of the application. But she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for it to have been added in the first place. So she didnt uphold the complaint 
 which meant that Mr M asked for it to be decided by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that Santander has retained its rationale for making the entry on the 
database in 2015  but not the evidence it relied on at the time. This is the evidence of the 
application Mr M made, including the documents he provided in support. However, Mr M has 
provided copies of everything that he gave Santander at the time, which Ive been able to 
cross-reference with the record of Santanders concerns, as well as later evidence of his tax 
records and a letter from his accountant.
Mr M has referred to the CIFAS principles for members, which are published on its website, 
and set out the standard of proof to be applied in making an entry. These arent directly 
relevant to this case, since they were published after Santander made the entry in 2015. 
However, Ive thought about whether it was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to 
make a report at the time  which in my view requires Santander to have had an evidence 
based reasonable suspicion.
Santander has explained to Mr M that there was a discrepancy in his payslips, provided in 
support of the mortgage application. He declared that his employer was a company Ill call D, 
but the payslips were issued by a separate company Ill call A.
Mr M has explained that D and A were related companies, with directors in common, which 
shared back office functions. Ive verified from Companies House records that there were 
directors in common, and that for a time the companies shared a registered address. Mr M 
has provided a statement from a former director explaining that there were shared staff and 
that it may simply have been an administrative error that his pay from D was on a payslip 
with As name on it.
However, that wasnt Santanders only concern at the time. There are other unusual features 
of the payslips  including that they are incomplete in places. And the sums on the payslips 
dont match, in either date or amounts, some of the payments from D into Mr Ms bank 
account around the time of the application. Some of the other dates and amounts dont 
match either, including the start date of Mr Ms employment. 
When a mortgage application is made, the lender will require evidence to support what is 
declared in the application. It will then consider that evidence  both on its own terms, and 
through independent checks it makes to verify what it is told elsewhere. Santander did that in 
this case. Ive considered the reports of its findings from 2015, and the evidence thats now 
been made available. Having done so, I dont think it was unreasonable that Santander was 
concerned about what had been provided. It removed the marker in 2019 when it could no 
longer evidence why it had been put there. But having looked myself at what Ive been given 
of what was available at the time, I dont think it acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman