DRN-2598477
The complaint
This complaint is about a Birmingham Midshires (BM)-branded mortgage that Mr and Mrs M 
hold with Bank of Scotland plc. Theyre unhappy with the information BM gave them in 
January 2020 about how best to deal with their arrears.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
There were two alternatives for Mr and Mrs M to choose from in January 2020; either 
continue to pay extra each month to bring down the arrears gradually or have the arrears 
capitalised. 
The former would have meant making monthly payments of around £2,100* for about three 
years from February 2020 and then reverting to paying around £1,650* for the rest of the 
mortgage term, and the arrears would show on Mr and Mrs Ms credit files until fully repaid. 
The latter meant Mr and Mrs M paying around £1,980* per month from February 2020 until 
the mortgage ended, but their credit files would show the mortgage as up to date 
immediately. 
(*All of the figures are rounded for simplicitys sake.)
Mr and Mrs M went with capitalisation, but a timing issue in BMs systems caused the 
mortgage to be reported as still in arrears in February 2020. However, BM put that right 
when Mr and Mrs M complained.
I appreciate that what Mr and Mrs M say now is that if BM had explained the options better, 
theyd have chosen to repay the arrears in instalments and benefit from lower payments in 
the final years of the mortgage. But all of the contact notes from the time, and indeed the 
content and tone of the phone conversations between lender and borrower point to 
clearance of the credit file being Mr and Mrs Ms first priority in January 2020.
Overall, Im not persuaded the reason Mr and Mrs M chose capitalisation of arrears was 
because of any shortcoming in BMs explanation of the pros and cons of the two options. In 
my view, they chose it because it best served their priority at the time of restoring their credit 
profile.
Its unfortunate that their credit files werent reported as up to date immediately. But that was 
a technical issue that happened after the event, so it had no bearing on the choice 
Mr and Mrs M made. In any event, BM put it right, as Id expect it to.
Mr and Mrs M were put to some unnecessary trouble and upset, and it was right that they be 
compensated for that, and for their time in bringing the complaint. In the circumstances, I 
think the £500 BM paid them under cover of its final response was fair. I dont consider any 
further redress to be necessary.
I make one further point. Mr and Mrs M have told us that theyre struggling to meet the 
current payments. If they havent already, they need to make sure BM knows about any 
problems theyre having and discuss the best way of dealing with them going forward, 
without recrimination over what happened in 2020.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman