DRN-2340948
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt treat her fairly when her interest only 
mortgage expired. Ms M is represented in bringing this complaint. Ill refer to her 
representative as Mr S.
What happened
Ms M had an interest only mortgage with Barclays. Shed taken out endowment policies, but 
the proceeds werent enough to repay the mortgage. The mortgage expired in November 
2017 with an unpaid balance.
Ms M said she contacted Barclays from 2014 about extending the term, which it declined. 
She says she made efforts to reduce her balance and meet Barclays requests, but it would 
then make new requests, including for documents she couldnt provide and information it 
didnt need. She says it started legal action unnecessarily. 
Ms M says despite Barclays noting shes a vulnerable customer, she still had to explain her 
circumstances each time she called, it didnt agree to write to her and didnt speak to her 
representative despite her providing authority. Ms M has now repaid her mortgage.
Our investigator said Barclays should have been clearer about what documents it needed. 
She said it put this right by giving Ms M correct information and paying compensation. She 
said it was reasonable for Barclays to ask for evidence of the steps Ms M was taking to 
repay the mortgage. Our investigator said Barclays service and communication could have 
been better, especially as it knew Ms M was vulnerable, and it should pay a further £100 
compensation. 
Barclays agreed. Ms M didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has repaid her mortgage with Barclays. This is good news, and Im sure this must 
have been a huge relief for her. 
Ms M has said how upsetting she found dealing with Barclays over the several years before 
her mortgage was repaid. Ms M and Barclays are well aware of the history here, and so I 
wont set out everything thats happened. Mr S said Barclays failure to provide appropriate 
care when dealing with Ms M is at the core of this complaint, and Ive kept this in mind when 
looking into whats happened here.
Ms Ms mortgage expired in 2017 with an unpaid balance. There was contact between Ms M 
and Barclays about repaying the balance. Ms M provided information about her income and 
expenditure. Barclays had previously said a term extension wasnt affordable. Ms M didnt 
want to use an equity release product. 
Barclays gave Ms M some time to explore her options. It extended this to the end of July 
2018 to take account of Ms Ms vulnerabilities and health problems.
In mid-2018 Ms M told Barclays she would repay the mortgage using an inheritance  Ms M 
was the administrator and the beneficiary of half of her late mothers estate. She asked 
Barclays to give her time to sell her late mothers house. Ms M also said shed applied to the 
Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) for help with interest payments. 
Barclays agreed to hold recovery action for 12 months. It asked Ms M for information. Ms M 
says she wasnt told shed have to provide this when Barclays agreed to the 12 months hold. 
I appreciate this was upsetting, but Ms M was asking Barclays to wait for repayment of the 
mortgage, and I think it was fair for Barclays to ask for evidence about the steps she was 
taking to do so.
I think it was reasonable for Barclays to ask for evidence the property was being marketed 
for sale. And that Ms M was entitled to a sufficient share of the proceeds to repay the debt. 
Ms M provided the name and address of the estate agents, but no telephone number or 
contact person. Barclays asked for the address of the property Ms M had inherited  without 
this Barclays couldnt check it was being marketed for sale. Barclays notes say Ms M 
changed estate agents after a few months. Barclays asked for the new details and evidence 
the property was marketed online. It was still asking for this information in August 2019, a 
year after Ms M said shed repay the mortgage by selling the property. 
I think its reasonable for Barclays to ask Ms M for the estate agents telephone number and 
the property address. It doesnt seem reasonable to me for Ms M to say Barclays should 
search for these details on the internet. Ms M could have provided this in writing if she didnt 
want to call Barclays. Instead, the parties exchanged letters about whether the information 
was needed. 
Ms M sent Barclays a court order appointing her as administrator of her late mothers estate. 
This doesnt prove though that she was a beneficiary, and I can see why Barclays wanted 
confirmation of this. Ms Ms share of the estate would depend on matters outside Barclays 
knowledge, such as the number of other beneficiaries. Barclays accepts what it first asked 
for  a solicitors undertaking that the sales proceeds of Ms Ms late mothers house would be 
used to repay the mortgage  wasnt right. It corrected what it asked for, and gave Ms M 
£250 towards her legal costs.
Ms M says she was retired and on a fixed income, and the fact that she applied to the DWP 
for help with her interest payments showed she couldnt afford to make additional 
repayments. She says its unreasonable for Barclays to ask her to update her income and 
expenditure details. Ive thought about what shes said, and I do understand her point. 
However, Barclays held recovery action for periods of time and more than two years passed 
between the term expiring and the mortgage being repaid. I think it was reasonable for it to 
update the information it had, in case Ms Ms situation changed. Which in fact it did, when 
she inherited part of an estate and when she had the benefit of payments from the DWP.
I think it was reasonable for Barclays to ask for information from Ms M, to establish her 
financial circumstances and when it might expect the mortgage balance to be repaid. 
However, I dont think Barclays was always fair and sympathetic. Barclays noted that Ms M 
was vulnerable in mid-2016. I dont think it always had this in mind when talking to Ms M. It 
arranged for a single adviser to speak to Ms M in 2017 and again in early 2019, and then to communicate in writing. I appreciate different teams were involved after the term expired and 
its not always possible to maintain a single point of contact. But Ms M had told Barclays 
about her vulnerabilities and how upsetting she found calls. 
I think Barclays should have put a suitable arrangement in place for how it communicated 
with Ms M sooner and taken better care to follow it. I think this would have made it easier for 
Ms M to provide information to Barclays and shed have found communicating with it less 
upsetting.
Barclays notes say it told Ms M and Mr S it would need Ms Ms authority before it could 
speak to Mr S about her account. I cant fairly find that Barclays should have dealt with Mr S 
before receiving authority from Ms M to do so.
Putting things right
Ms M found her calls with Barclays very upsetting, and Barclays was aware she was 
vulnerable. Barclays made errors when communicating with Ms M, and this caused her 
additional upset. I think its right that it pays compensation. 
I have to take into account that Ms M had an expired mortgage with Barclays and they 
needed to be in contact with each other about how it would be repaid. It was reasonable for 
Barclays to ask for information about Ms Ms circumstances and the steps she was taking to 
repay the mortgage. So much of the contact they had couldnt have been avoided. 
Ive also taken into account that Barclays previously paid compensation to Ms M. It paid 
£200 for her upset. It gave her £250 towards potential legal costs in confirming her share of 
the estate she was administering. Taking all of the circumstances into account, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay another £100 to Ms M. 
Since the complaint came to us, Ms M raised further issues about not being told when 
payments from the DWP stopped and Barclays not agreeing to a second charge on her 
property. Under our rules, Ms M should first raise these concerns with Barclays and give it 
an opportunity to respond. I cant look into these issues here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £100 to 
Ms M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman