complaint
Miss B says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four loans Mr Lender provided to Miss B between August 2016 to 
December 2017. A summary of Miss Bs borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
108/08/2016 27/10/2016 3 £200.00 £104.01
204/11/2016 27/04/2017 5 £400.00 £169.60
327/04/2017 30/11/2017 6 £650.00 £260.00
403/12/2017 29/01/2019 6 £600.00 £215.20
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Bs complaint about loans 3 onwards and thought these loans 
shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender disagreed as it felt the checks it carried out were 
proportionate, and that the loans were affordable for Miss B based on her declared income 
and expenditure at the time. So as Mr Lender disagreed, the complaint has been passed to 
me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
DRN-1467413But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Bs 
complaint about loans 1 and 2 should be upheld. Miss B appears to have accepted these 
findings, so as these loans are no longer in dispute, I havent considered these further. 
However, I have thought about all of Miss Bs loans when looking at her overall lending 
relationship with Mr Lender.
Mr Lender says it carried out an affordability check before allowing Miss B to take out any of 
these loans  which involved it requesting information about Miss Bs income and 
expenditure. But by the time Miss B was applying for her third loan, I think Mr Lender 
shouldve carried out a more thorough and proportional check of her financial situation. I say 
this because Miss B had deferred a payment during loan 2 and requested another loan on 
the same day she repaid loan 2, for a larger amount. So, a reasonable lender ought to have 
looked into her situation further before agreeing to lend her loan 3. 
Had Mr Lender have completed a full check of Miss Bs financial position it wouldve seen 
that Miss B had taken out short term loans other providers. This suggests Miss B was using 
short-term loans to balance her financial situation and was potentially becoming reliant on 
this type of expensive credit. It is also an indication Miss B was getting further and further in debt. Mr Lender says that even with Miss Bs short-term loan commitments at the time, loans 
3 and 4 wouldve been affordable for Miss B based on her income and expenditure. But I 
think a responsible lender shouldve realised that Miss B wasnt managing her finances well 
and was juggling short-term loans to keep afloat. And someone in this situation would be 
unlikely to repay any further loans sustainably. So, I dont think Mr Lender shouldve lent 
Miss B loans 3 and 4 on this basis.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 and 4 as I dont think Mr Lender shouldve 
provided further loans from loan 3 onwards. Mr Lender should put things right.
putting things right
refund all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 3 and 4 from Miss Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must 
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. PDL Finance Limited should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman