DRN-4383569
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc wont refund all of the money they lost when 
they were the victims of a scam.
What happened
In March 2023, Mr and Mrs P received a text message saying it was from Santander and 
asking them to call a number it gave if they didnt recognise the payment it mentioned. As 
they didnt recognise the payment, Mr and Mr P phoned the number and spoke to some 
people who said they worked for Santander. They were told another payment had been 
attempted and their account was at risk, so they needed to transfer their money to a new 
account in order to keep it safe. Two payments were then made out of Mr and Mrs Ps 
Santander account  totalling £15,120.12.
Unfortunately, we now know the text message and the people Mr and Mrs P spoke to were 
part of a scam.
After the scam was uncovered, Santander investigated and accepted it didnt stop the 
payments or show Mr and Mrs P an effective warning before the payments were made. But it 
also said Mr and Mrs P didnt take steps to verify the message or the people they spoke to 
were genuine. So it offered to refund 50% of the money they had lost. Mr and Mrs P werent 
satisfied with Santanders response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Mr and Mrs P had a 
reasonable basis for belief that the payments they were making were genuine, or that 
Santander had done what wed expect it to do. So they thought Santanders offer to refund 
50% of the money Mr and Mrs P had lost was fair. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P have said they werent given the sort code and account number 
for the new account the payments went to and so think the payments werent set up as 
payments would usually be. But Santanders evidence shows the payments were set up 
using Mr and Mrs Ps online banking details, and Mrs and Mrs P have said they didnt give 
the people they spoke to these details or download anything onto their device. They also 
appear to have been aware the payments were being made and been happy for them to go 
through, at least at the time.
So I think its likely Mr and Mrs P did authorise the payments. And banks are expected to 
make payments that a customer authorises. So while I recognise they didnt intend for the 
money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Santander was obliged to follow 
their instructions and make the payments.
However, where the customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment.
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victim of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr and Mrs P fell victim to, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those 
exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Were Mr and Mrs P vulnerable, under the CRM code?
The CRM code says that, where a customer is vulnerable, the bank should refund them in 
full  regardless of whether any of the exceptions to reimbursement apply. And it defines a 
customer as vulnerable if it would not be reasonable to expect them to have protected 
themselves from the particular scam they fell victim to.
Mr and Mrs P have mentioned their age, that English is their second language, and that they 
are not well-versed in scams or making bank transfers. Any my intention isnt to diminish the 
difficulties these things can cause, and I dont underestimate the impact they had. But, 
based on what Ive seen of their interactions with Santander and what they told it about their 
circumstances after the scam was uncovered, I dont think their circumstances were such 
that they were unable to protect themselves from this particular scam.
So I dont think Mr and Mrs P meet the definition of vulnerable from the CRM Code, and so 
the exclusions to reimbursement could still apply.
Did Mr and Mrs P have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Santander has said Mr and Mrs P didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payments, because they didnt do sufficient checks into who they were speaking to. And 
while I appreciate that they have been the victims of a cruel and sophisticated scam and that 
the scammers made them feel under pressure to act quickly, I do think there were a number 
of things about what was happening and what they were being told that should have caused 
them significant concern.
The text message Mr and Mrs P initially received didnt come from a number associated with 
Santander, and just appeared on their phone as from an unknown mobile phone number. So 
I think this should have caused them significant concern about whether it was genuine. And 
there were a number of reports online of the number the message gave to call being 
involved in scams, which I think Mr and Mrs P would have seen if they had tried to check the 
number.
The people Mr and Mrs P then spoke too dont appear to have known any personal details 
about them or gone through any identity verification process, as I would expect a genuine bank to have done on a call with its customers. And given the amount of money Mr and 
Mrs P were being asked to move, I think its reasonable to expect them to have tried to 
confirm who they were talking to in some way. So I think this lack of any security process 
should also have caused them some concern.
The account Mr and Mrs P were asked to send their money to wasnt in their name, and was 
instead in the name of someone they didnt know. So I think this should have caused them 
significant concern. And while they say they did ask about this, they say they were then told 
it was just a temporary account and I dont think this explanation should have been enough 
to satisfy their concerns.
Mr and Mrs P were also told to say the payments were for paying their family, which wasnt 
the case. And I think being asked to give incorrect information and mislead their bank about 
the payment should have caused them significant concern.
I sympathise with the position Mr and Mrs P have found themselves in. But I think there were 
a number of things here which should have caused them significant concern. And I dont 
think they did enough, or that the seemingly genuine information they were given should 
have been enough, to satisfy those concerns. So I think Santander has established that they 
made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief that they were genuine.
Santander has therefore established that one of the exceptions to reimbursement under the 
CRM code applies here, and it does not have to refund Mr and Mrs P all the money they lost.
Did Santander meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mr and Mrs P had a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payments, they may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money they lost if Santander 
didnt meet its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective 
warnings when it identifies a scam risk.
Santander has accepted that it didnt provide effective warnings to Mr and Mrs O when the 
payments were made, as it should have done. And so it has accepted that it didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM code.
Overall then, I think Santander has established that Mr and Mrs P made the payments 
without a reasonable basis for belief that they were genuine. But I also think Santander failed 
to meet its obligations. And, where this is the case, the CRM code sets out that Mr and 
Mrs P are entitled to a refund of 50% of the money they lost.
Mr and Mrs P have argued that Santander should have identified that the payments were out 
of character and unusual activity for them, and so intervened to stop them being made. But, 
even if this was the case, it wouldnt change the outcome of this complaint. For the same 
reasons I think they didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, Id 
think it would be reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to bear some responsibility for the loss they 
suffered. So Id still only think it was fair for Santander to refund 50% of the money Mr and 
Mrs P lost.
As Santander has already offered to refund 50% of the money Mr and Mrs P lost, I think this 
is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint and I dont think it would be fair to require 
Santander to refund anything further.
Did Santander do enough to try to recover the money Mr and Mrs P lost?We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
Santanders evidence shows it contacted the bank the payments were sent to within a 
reasonable amount of time, to ask for the money to be returned. So it has done all I would 
expect it to have done. And the bank the money was sent to was able to recover £7.12, 
which has now been returned to Mr and Mrs P.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman