DRN-2903103
Complaint
Miss D has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly continued 
applying charges to her overdraft which she struggled to repay.
  
Background
Miss D has two current accounts with NatWest. However, shes only complained to us about 
account number ending 3461. So weve only looked at her concerns regarding this account.
Miss D was unhappy after NatWest added overdraft fees to her overdraft after shed cleared 
the balance. One of our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt think NatWest had 
done anything wrong or had treated Miss D unfairly. Miss D disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. On 15 June 2021, I issued a provisional decision 
setting out my initial findings on Miss Ds complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will 
instead provide a summary of my findings. 
I started by setting out that NatWest would be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good 
industry practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and 
reasonably when applying overdraft charges. And as that was the case, I didnt consider it 
necessary to having set all of this out.
I then went on to explain that having considered everything provided, I thought that NatWest 
acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from 
February 2019. In my view, by this point, it was evident Miss D was in financial difficulty. A 
cursory look at her statements leading up to this period showed that shed spent significant 
periods with an overdrawn balance. And the only reason shed been able to stay within her 
overdraft limit was because shed credited her account with payday loans. 
I didnt consider this to be a sustainable way of repaying an overdraft facility. And this led to 
me concluding that by February 2019, NatWest should have stopped providing Miss Ds 
overdraft on the same terms and instead treated Miss D with forbearance rather than adding 
even more interest, fees and charges to her overdraft.
All of this meant that NatWest should have realised that Miss D was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered her assistance. As I didnt think that NatWest reacted to Miss Ds 
account usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I thought it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably. And this left me intending to issue a final decision which upheld the 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
NatWest didnt provide anything further for me to think about or ask for any additional time to 
do so. And Miss D responded saying she accepted my provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for me to think about, I see no reason to alter 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision of 15 June 2021.
NatWest treated Miss D unfairly and she ended up paying additional interest, fees and 
charges at a time when she was already experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Miss D 
lost out because of what NatWest did wrong and it should put things right.  
Fair compensation  what NatWest needs to do to put things right for Miss D
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ds complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from February 2019 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Miss D to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ds 
credit file, it should backdate this to February 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Miss Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above in in my provisional decision of 15 June 2021, Im 
upholding Miss Ds complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should put things right in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman