DRN-2649747
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt provided them with a 
refund for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy they held.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C purchased an annual-multi trip insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
They have explained the main holiday they bought the policy to cover, was a river cruise 
which they were due to go on in April 2020. 
The policy was purchased on 26 November 2019, to cover any trips up to 35 days duration, 
taken in Europe. The policy started on the day it was purchased  26 November 2019, and 
was due to end on 25 November 2019, a year later.
Mr and Mrs C paid £396.83 for the standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover 
 which also provided cover for their declared medical conditions. The premium Mr and Mrs 
C paid for the standard level of travel insurance cover included a discount  of £39.71.
The holiday Mr and Mrs C were due to go on in April 2020 was cancelled. And so, on 29 
April 2020 Mr and Mrs C contacted the broker they purchased the policy through, to cancel 
their travel insurance policy  feeling this was no longer needed. Mr and Mrs C said they 
were aware the terms and conditions of the insurance policy only allowed cancellation of the 
policy within the first 14 days of purchase. But they noted the terms and conditions of the 
policy said there may be exceptional circumstances when cancellation could be carried out, 
after these 14 days. 
Great Lakes said that it considered the global pandemic, which was why Mr and Mrs C were 
cancelling their policy, to be unprecedented. It noted that Mr and Mrs C had the benefit of 
cancellation cover under their policy, since November 2019, when they first bought it. But it 
recognised that at the point Mr and Mrs C called to cancel their policy, times were uncertain. 
And given this, it had made some temporary changes, which meant that whilst it wouldnt be 
providing Mr and Mrs C with a cash refund for the policy, but it would be able to offer Mr and 
Mrs C credit vouchers which could be used in various scenarios. It included options to buy 
cover for future UK-only travel and a pro-rata credit voucher valid for 36 months.
Mr and Mrs C accepted the pro-rata credit voucher valid for 36 months but remained 
unhappy with this offer because it wasnt a cash refund. So, they referred their complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator thought that the offer Great Lakes provided was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They felt that they should be able to receive a pro-rata refund in 
cash, rather than by way of a voucher.
Because Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint  because I think the offer Great 
Lakes has provided in this instance is fair. I understand Mr and Mrs C do feel strongly about 
this and would prefer a cash refund. But Ive explained why I think Great Lakes offer is 
reasonable below.
The right to cancel
When deciding a complaint, I must give regard to rules and guidance in relation to the issue 
complained about. There are rules and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an 
insurance contract. So, I have considered these.
The rules and guidance on cancellation of an insurance contract are set out in the 
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS)  provided by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), who are the insurance industry regulator. 
These explain that in insurance contracts like Mr and Mrs Cs travel insurance policy, there is 
a 14-day cooling off period. This allows a consumer to cancel the policy without any penalty 
 and without the consumer needing to give a reason to cancel the policy. This is what is 
called the right to cancel.
With this in mind, Mr and Mrs C did have the right to cancel their insurance policy within 14 
days of taking it out. ICOBS explains that if a consumer has the above right to cancel, a 
consumer may be required to pay for the service they actually received under the insurance 
contract, and that this may include an amount of cover provided i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to time on risk.
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt cancel their insurance policy within 14 days. Both parties accept this. 
Under the above rules and guidance even if Mr and Mrs C had cancelled their insurance 
policy within 14 days, they wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. 
Great Lakes had been on risk for the period from November 2019 to April 2020. Mr and Mrs 
C recognise they did have cover during this period. But, feel that they should receive a 
monetary refund from when the policy was cancelled in April 2020. And that this should 
recognise the fact that around seven months of cover was now no longer needed.
So, Ive thought about what theyve said here. And again, referred to the rules and guidance 
in place. ICOBS does also say that a firm can provide longer, or additional cancellation rights 
voluntarily  as long as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer 
as the above, unless the difference are clearly explained. 
The policy cancellation rightsIve reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs policy, to see what this says about 
their cancellation rights. And Im aware these say;
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Given the above, Mr and Mrs Cs cancellation rights under their policy are more favourable 
to them than is required by the industry rules on the matter. They do allow for a refund after 
the 14-day period, at Great Lakes discretion, in exceptional circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs C have said they consider the Covid-19 pandemic to fall under exceptional 
circumstances. And I understand why they feel that way. But I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider the pandemic as 
exceptional circumstances here. 
The reason I say this is because the above policy term does provide examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances  and those listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder  such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. The examples listed arent wider than those individual circumstances. And so, I 
dont think the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover the sort of situation 
which would affect many of Great Lakes policyholders. 
The offer of a credit voucher
Having said that, I do understand that Mr and Mrs Cs need for this policy changed due to 
circumstances out of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of 
the policy because of the unanticipated, exceptional and unforeseen events surrounding 
Covid-19.
As above, Covid-19 was unanticipated and unforeseen, and this was outside of the control of 
both parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr 
and Mrs Cs contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 
26 November 2019. 
Mr and Mrs C did have insurance from 26 November 2019, for travelling on any number of 
trips, up to 35 days in duration, that they may have taken, until 29 April 2020. Great Lakes 
has no way of knowing how many trips had been taken during that time. There may have 
been a large number of trips  or none. But, regardless of the number, if any, trips were 
taken, Great Lakes was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force. 
The policy would have covered any holidays Mr and Mrs C needed to cancel, because of 
specific events in the policy, such as if Mr or Mrs C had fallen ill with one of the conditions 
they had declared as pre-existing when taking out the policy.   
As our investigator has said, its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer 
had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is 
not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Cs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair 
for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered. And its my 
understanding that Mr and Mrs C accept this.But, after Mr and Mrs C cancelled their insurance policy, due to the impact of Covid-19, 
Great Lakes wasnt bearing any risk under the insurance policy for upcoming holidays . 
Their river cruise holiday had already been cancelled, and there wasnt any claim for this 
cancellation. There also wasnt any risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other reason 
or any possibility of Mr and Mrs C making a claim whilst they were away on holiday. So 
Great Lakes no longer carried any risk of a successful claim being made. After the policy 
was cancelled, Great Lakes was not providing cancellation cover for any other holidays Mr 
and Mrs C might have had booked, or for any travelling that Mr and Mrs C might have done, 
whether abroad or in the UK. 
Given that this is a unique and unprecedented set of circumstances resulting the from the 
Covid-10 pandemic, I do think it would be reasonable for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata 
refund of the premium Mr and Mrs C paid for their travel insurance policy  from the date 
they cancelled the insurance policy, and Great Lakes was no longer on risk. 
Great Lakes has agreed to provide a pro-rata refund to Mr and Mrs C, by way of a credit 
voucher, rather than by providing a cash refund. So, Ive needed to think about whether the 
offer made  the provision of a voucher  was fair. When Ive thought about what is fair here, 
Ive needed to think about what would be fair and reasonable to both parties  Mr and Mrs C, 
and Great Lakes.
Having considered this, I do think Great Lakes offer to pay a refund by providing a voucher is 
fair. As noted above, I do appreciate the reasons why Mr and Mrs C chose to cancel their 
insurance policy. But Mr and Mrs C had entered into a contract with Great Lakes. They 
agreed to pay the premium detailed in return for Great Lakes accepting the risk of a valid 
claim being made under the policy. Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk 
Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date.    
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mr and Mrs C. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that 
voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
Great Lakes has offered to provide a voucher to Mr and Mrs C, and this voucher is valid for 
36 months. It is fully transferable, so it can be used by Mr and Mrs C or by a third party if 
they would prefer to give it to someone else. This voucher can be used for either a single or 
annual multi-trip policy. 
Mr and Mrs C have said they dont want to use a voucher, because they were unlikely to go 
on holiday for the rest of the policy year. But, the voucher Great Lakes is offering is valid for 
a period of 36 months. So, Mr and Mrs C can use this at a later date. And, I dont think the 
terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered are unreasonably restrictive. So, Im satisfied 
the offer of the voucher is fair and reasonable. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C are concerned 
about the impact of Covid-19 on their ability to travel in the future, particularly given some of 
the health conditions that they declared. But I also need to bear in mind that they were able 
and willing to travel with those declared conditions when they took out the policy. And, as 
Ive outlined above, the voucher is valid for 36 months. Mr and Mrs C also had the option to 
cover UK only trips or give the voucher to someone else. 
The value of the pro-rata credit voucher
Because Ive said it is reasonable for Mr and Mrs C to receive a voucher, Ive considered 
whether the value of the voucher Great Lakes has provided is fair. Great Lakes has provided 
me with information on how Mr and Mrs Cs premium is calculated. And this shows me that it 
doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation, and post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged to Mr and Mrs C is split equally across the 
whole period of cover.
It is for the insurer to decide the way it calculates the premiums it charges. And it will 
calculate this taking into account a range of different considerations and risk factors, such as 
previous claims experience, how likely it is a claim will occur, and its own commercial 
interests as a business. An insurer must just make sure it treats its customers fairly. 
Ive reviewed the information Great Lakes has provided me, which details its reasoning for 
calculating the premiums as it does. And I dont think there is any material unevenness in the 
incident of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip policies. And I am satisfied that Great 
Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs C differently, or unfairly, to any other Great Lakes 
customers in similar circumstances to theirs.
The voucher value has been calculated based on Mr and Mrs Cs unused period of standard 
travel insurance cover. The premium Mr and Mrs C paid for this policy was for a period of 
approximately 366 days from 26 November 2019 to 25 November 2020. 
The value of the voucher which Great Lakes has offered to Mr and Mrs C equates to the 
premiums equivalent to 211 unused days of cover from 29 April 2020, until the original policy 
end date of 25 November 2020. As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for 
the 211 days after the policy was cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And, I 
wont be requiring it do so anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes Insurance 
SE has offered Mr and Mrs C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require 
it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman