DRN-2953000
The complaint
Ms M has complained about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) carried out a repair 
under her home emergency policy following a gas leak.
  
What happened
Ms M had a gas leak in her home. A gas network company visited and found the leak was 
around the gas meter and shut off the gas supply. The next day, Ms M contacted IPA to 
arrange for an engineer to visit under her home emergency policy.
Ms M said IPA told her it couldnt send an engineer due to Covid-19 restrictions. Ms M 
contacted IPA a couple of days later to say shed had a negative result for a Covid-19 test. 
IPA then sent an engineer the same day.
After the repair was carried out, Ms M complained to IPA. Ms M said the engineers hadnt 
worn personal protective equipment (PPE) and the policy offered alternative 
accommodation, but she was advised to stay with family and friends, which didnt comply 
with Covid-19 restrictions.  She also found a call handler she spoke with to be bullying and 
abusive. In addition, Ms M said she thought that some of the work undertaken was 
unnecessary and that her home was left in an unsafe condition when the engineers 
completed their work. IPA also hadnt provided a certificate of completion.
When IPA replied it said Ms M had agreed to the quote for both the repair under the terms of 
the policy and the trace and access that wasnt covered by the policy. IPA said although one 
of the invoices referred to digging a channel, this was trace and access and wasnt covered 
by the policy. IPA had also told Ms M that she would need to cover some of the costs. This 
was the costs that went over the limit in the policy, as well as the trace and access costs. 
IPA said the repair had been carried out in the most efficient way and it didnt agree that not 
all of the work was necessary.
Ms M complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said IPA 
hadnt provided any evidence to dispute that it had declined to send an engineer to begin 
with. IPA also shouldnt have advised Ms M to stay with friends and family. However, the 
policy didnt provide assistance with finding accommodation. Instead, it provided a 
contribution towards the cost. Ms M had to spend two periods in alternative accommodation. 
The investigator said IPA should pay an additional £40 towards these costs, as the second 
stay was due to damage caused by an engineer, so IPA should cover the full cost of the 
stay, not just up to the policy limit.
The investigator also said hed only been able to listen to part of the call where Ms M found 
the call handler to be abusive. However, based on what hed heard, he hadnt found 
evidence to show the call handler was rude, intimidating or bullying. Engineers were also not 
required to wear PPE under government rules and the investigator hadnt seen any evidence 
that the engineers hadnt followed the rules, such as trying to maintain social-distancing 
where possible.
The investigator also wasnt persuaded that there was evidence to show that any of the work 
was unnecessary. He also thought it was reasonable for Ms M to have to pay the trace and 
access costs, as these werent covered by the policy. However, he thought Ms Ms home 
wasnt left in a safe condition, as the holes in the floor were left exposed for a few days 
before plywood was fitted to cover them and the plywood then wasnt fixed in place, so was 
a potential trip hazard until the floor was filled about three months later. Ms M also had to 
chase a certificate of completion and when she was provided with one, the details were 
wrong. The investigator said IPA should pay £40 towards the alternative accommodation, 
provide the certificate of completion and pay £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the handling of the claim.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 June 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
The claim was impacted by issues related to Covid-19. My understanding of what happened 
is mainly based on what Ms M said happened, as only limited information has been provided 
by IPA. Ms M said IPA wouldnt send an engineer because of concerns about Covid-19. IPA 
was working under guidance at the time that, where a policyholder was showing symptoms 
of Covid-19 or self-isolating, it could only send an engineer if there was an immediate risk to 
the policyholders safety. Ms M said she wasnt asked about Covid-19 symptoms or whether 
she was self-isolating. Ms M then contacted IPA again and discussed whether it would send 
an engineer if she provided a negative Covid-19 test. IPA said it would. Ms M contacted IPA 
a few days later to confirm she had a negative test result. IPA then sent an engineer the 
same day. Although I can understand that IPA wanted to take steps to protect its engineers, 
I think an engineer could have been sent sooner if it had been made clear earlier what was 
required for an engineer to visit.
Ms M also said the engineer didnt wear protective clothing, such as PPE, to limit Covid-19 
transmission. I can understand that Ms M was concerned by this, but there wasnt a specific 
requirement for PPE to be worn in order to manage the potential risk. So, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to say the engineer should have done so.
Ms M also complained that the flooring was unsafe in her home. My understanding is that 
the part of the flooring where the re-piping work was carried out was left exposed for several 
days. The engineer then returned and put several pieces of plywood down, but they werent 
secured in any way. So, I dont think the floor was left in a safe condition, so I think this 
would have caused concern and inconvenience for Ms M.
Ms M has also raised concerns about alternative accommodation. She said IPA suggested 
she stayed with family and friends, despite this being against government Covid-19 advice. 
Ms M said that due to her job, she was able to find accommodation herself. Ms M also said 
the second time she had to stay in alternative accommodation, her costs werent fully 
refunded.
Looking at the policy wording, this said IPA would contribute to the cost of alternative 
accommodation, rather than arranging it. If IPA suggested Ms M should stay with family or 
friends, I dont think this was appropriate advice, but it wasnt required to arrange 
accommodation for Ms M. Im aware that the second time Ms M stayed in alternative 
accommodation, this cost £40 more than the accommodation allowance. My understanding 
is that Ms M had to move out of her home because of damage to her boiler caused by IPAs 
contractor. So, Im currently of the view that IPA should refund the additional £40, as it 
seems she had to move out as the result of the engineers actions, rather than the home 
emergency itself, so I dont think the normal policy limit should apply. Ms M was also concerned about whether the trace and access work was necessary. Having 
looked at what happened, I think that it was. Two engineers visited and, from what Ive seen, 
both seemed to conclude that the source of the gas leak was underground. I also havent 
seen anything to suggest that when the work was carried out that trace and access was 
shown to be unnecessary. Im aware that an invoice from the company that did the work, 
which was reissued with a different description of the work at Ms Ms request, didnt 
specifically describe it as trace and access work, but Im satisfied that it was. Regardless of 
this the total cost of the works was more than the policy limit, so Ms M would have had to 
pay for it anyway. I note that the policy booklet said it might be possible to claim back trace 
and access costs via the buildings insurance part of the policy and that IPA also said this to 
Ms M during a phone call.
Ive also considered the cost of the works. This was made up of two elements, the work 
covered by the policy to deal with the gas leak itself and the trace and access work, which 
wasnt covered by the policy. IPA arranged for an engineer to visit to quote for the work. 
There was a charge for this visit, which was deducted from the £1,000 policy limit. However, 
the engineer couldnt provide separate quotes for the work covered under the policy and 
trace and access work. So, IPA arranged for a second engineer to visit, the cost of which 
was also deducted from the policy limit. When Ms M queried this with IPA, she was told that 
both engineers had to be paid and that there was only one place that money could come 
from, which was the £1,000 policy limit. I dont think that was fair, as this meant there was 
then less money available under the policy for the works themselves. Ms M then also had to 
pay for the amount over the policy limit, which was exhausted more quickly than it would 
otherwise have been due to two engineers having to be sent in order for a suitable quote to 
be provided. Ms M has provided evidence that she had to pay £144.80 for the home 
emergency work that went over the policy limit. The first engineers visit cost £152.40. So, 
Ms M wouldnt have had to pay £144.80 if the cost of both engineers initial visits werent 
deducted. So, I currently intend to say that IPA should refund Ms M £144.80.
Ive also looked at the cost of the trace and access work, which was £1,600. I asked IPA 
some questions about the quotes. Initially, it said Ms M didnt need to get the private work 
done by the same contractor as the work covered by the policy. I then explained to IPA that 
one of its call handlers had said to Ms M that she needed to accept both parts of the quote. 
IPA replied to my point by saying:
The customer would have been covered for the works after the trace and access is 
completed and would be able to claim this via reimbursement. The suggestion it appears 
was to speed up the circumstances as we were under the impression I understand that all 
works could be completed the same attendance. The quote provided to the customer was 
not mandatory and I believe we suggested they accept in their best interest but there does 
not appear to be any forced or influenced conversation surrounding this. The customer 
advised would seek private quote which
we advised was absolutely fine it then appears they did in fact choose [IPAs contractor].
I dont agree that was what happened. The call handler said obviously I would need your 
instruction on both parts [of the work]  so I can instruct [IPAs contractor] to proceed. You 
wouldnt proceed on one part without the other. 
Ms M said she would want to get her own quote for the trace and access work, as the cost 
seemed quite steep. The call handler replied:
If you want to see if you can get a quote from someone who can do the work, you certainly 
can do so. Under the policy, you must use our contractor. That is one of the conditions of the 
policy. But because of the size, managers in the past have been persuaded to allow you to 
use your own contractor on a pay and claim basis, which they would consider if you submitted the information you had  But engineers wouldnt be willing to do a pipe run and 
have your engineers do the trace and access. Whoever did it would have to do the whole 
job.
So, I think Ms M was presented with a choice. This was to use IPAs contractor to do all of 
the work and to automatically have some of those costs paid under the terms of the policy. 
Alternatively, she could get her own quote for the work, but if she wanted someone else to 
do the work, they would have to do all of it. It was then for a manager to decide if any of it 
would be refunded. I think that choice was also explained on the basis of what an engineer 
would be willing to do, not based on what was in Ms Ms best interest.
IPA also said that Ms M got a quote from another company. I havent seen evidence to show 
that was the case. Based on what Ive seen, I think Ms M spoke to a private engineer to see 
if there was an alternative way to fix the problem with the gas supply that wasnt so 
disruptive. Im aware that Ms M also spoke to IPAs contractor, but my understanding was 
that this was mainly to discuss whether trace and access was required, rather than to 
negotiate the price. I also havent seen any evidence that IPA suggested to Ms M that she 
could negotiate the price for that part of the work. The call handler told Ms M that she either 
had to accept both parts of the quotes or get all of the work done privately.
Im also aware that Ms M told the call handler she couldnt make a decision on whether to 
proceed with the work because of the large cost involved, as she didnt have that amount of 
money available. In a phone call the next day, she told another call handler that she didnt 
know where she was going to get the money from to pay for the work. I dont think Ms M 
accepting the quote meant she was happy with it. Based on what Ive seen, I think Ms M 
knew she needed her gas supply to be restored and by accepting IPAs quote it meant that 
she knew she was going to get at least some of the costs paid. 
Im conscious though that I cant say one way or the other whether IPAs contractors quote 
was reasonable or offered value for money. As a result, I dont currently intend to say that 
IPA should refund any of the trace and access costs because work was carried out and it did 
need to be paid for. However, I will consider this part of the complaint again when I look at 
compensation.
Ms M also complained that she felt the call handler was bullying and abusive. IPA has now 
been able to provide a full copy of the call, so Ive listened to all of it. Having done so, I think 
the call handler was direct at times, particularly when he thought Ms M hadnt understood 
the position on the claim. I also think he cut Ms M off when she was speaking on a few 
occasions and that, in my view, at times he seemed frustrated at Ms M asking a number of 
detailed questions about aspects of the quotes and the work. The call seemed to end in a 
polite and friendly manner. I can understand that Ms M found it a difficult conversation, 
including for the reasons Ive highlighted above, but I didnt hear anything in the call that I 
thought was bullying or abusive.
So, Ive also thought about compensation. I think there were a number of issues with how 
this claim was handled, including when Ms M first tried to arrange for an engineer to visit and 
the issue with the flooring. I think Ms M was in a difficult position about how to get her gas 
supply restored, given the information she was given by the call handler about the quotes for 
the work. I dont think it was made clear to Ms M that she could get a private quote for the 
trace and access work only, that she could negotiate the cost of the work if she used IPAs 
contractor or whether the costs were reasonable. I also dont think it was made clear to Ms 
M that the works after the trace and access were carried out would be refunded if she had 
the work done privately. I think the combination of these factors is likely to have caused 
considerable distress and inconvenience to Ms M. As a result, I currently intend to say that 
IPA should pay Ms M £500 compensation.I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 11 July 2021.
Ms M provided some further comments, which I summarise as follows:
Ms M described where she initially smelt the gas, the actions of the gas network 
engineer and the actions of the companies IPA sent to prepare the quotes. Ms M also 
said neither of the companies IPA sent accessed the old piping and instead decided to 
run new pipes between the gas meter and the gas appliances and she questioned the 
basis for this decision.
Ms M also questioned why if she was paying for the work that the engineer had to 
provide any information to IPA rather than to herself.
Ms M said it was never made clear to her that she could arrange for her own engineer to 
complete the work, but even if it had been she wouldnt have had the funds to pay the 
engineer and then wait to be refunded by IPA.
Ms M had also raised queries with the engineer about the quote including costs for dust 
suppression and about being given a certificate of completion for the works.
Ms M said IPA told her repeatedly that she should contact her home insurer about the 
trace and access. However, it wasnt covered by that policy. It was only when she made 
a claim that Ms M realised that her policy was managed by two different companies. The 
companies didnt communicate with each other and she felt she was being bounced 
between them both, rather than them speaking to each other and providing a clear 
response.
Ms M said she appreciated it was difficult for someone else to hear a conversation and to 
determine whether someone felt bullied or not.
Ms M said her understanding was that PPE was required, but was in limited supply. 
IPAs adviser had told her contractors didnt have access to PPE and couldnt insist on it, 
so no-one could attend her property.
IPA accepted the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive considered the response provided by Ms M, even if I 
dont comment on all of it here.
Im aware that Ms M still has concerns about the way the quotes and work were carried out. 
IPA sent two companies to prepare quotes and both seemed to have assessed what needed 
to be done to fix the issue with the gas supply. I havent seen anything to show me that it 
was inappropriate to run new pipework between the gas meter and the gas appliances, so 
Im not persuaded that IPA needs to do anything further on this.
Ms M was also concerned about the communication between IPA and the company that 
provided her buildings insurance. I can understand that Ms M might have hoped they worked 
more closely together. This complaint is about the home emergency policy provided by IPA. 
Any concerns with the actions of the other company would need to be raised with that 
company as a separate complaint. However, as IPA didnt cover all of the work, I think it was 
reasonable for it to suggest another potential way Ms M might be able to get some of the work paid for. But it was then for Ms M to follow up on that and for the other company to 
decide if it could offer any cover.
Ms M was also concerned that the certificate of completion she had been provided with 
included some incorrect details. I understand that she has now been provided with an 
updated certificate and is satisfied that this is correct.
  
Putting things right
IPA should pay Ms M an additional £40 for the alternative accommodation, £144.80 for the 
work that was covered by the policy but above the policy limit and £500 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld in part. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Ms M:
an additional £40 for the second stay in alternative accommodation.
£144.80 for the work that was covered by the policy, but above the policy limit.
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman