DRN-3124266
The complaint
R complains that TSB Bank Plc took money out of their account in error. 
Mr D complains on behalf of R.   
What happened
In May 2021, Mr D went into a TSB branch to organise some statements for Rs account. 
After he left, the member of staff who had served him failed to close down the account and 
as a result, served the next customer and transferred a payment of £957.31 from Rs 
account. 
Mr D noticed the large payment later that day and contacted TSB, asking them to block his 
business banking card and freeze his internet banking.
Due to the time of Mr Ds call, the department that he needed to speak with were closed 
meaning the person he spoke to was limited in what they could do to help. They froze the 
internet banking facility, cancelled Mr Ds business debit card and asked him to call again 
the following morning. 
Mr D called the next day and TSB explained the transaction had been made due to a 
banking error. They set up a complaint for him, and Mr D asked when the funds would be put 
back into the account. TSB said they couldnt be sure, but it may take a couple of days. Mr D 
has said that while he initially accepted this, he called back again as he wanted to make sure 
the funds were returned to the business account straight away. 
TSB accepted that a banking error meant the money was taken from the business account. 
To acknowledge this, they offered Mr D £75. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that TSB should increase its offer to £150. He explained 
that while TSB were able to resolve the matter quickly, there was still a large impact on Mr 
D. He said that as Mr Ds business debit card was closed and the internet banking frozen, Mr 
D had to use his personal credit card and cash to carry on his business operations until the 
new card arrived. This meant logging additional accounting records and making further 
banking transactions. 
Our investigator also explained that Mr D could still see the payee details from the incorrect 
transaction on his internet banking, and he was worried that as a result of TSBs error, his 
account information may have been given to a third party. However, he has said that since 
the error there hasnt been any fraudulent activity. 
Given the level of worry caused, the time taken to resolve the issue completely, and the 
inconvenience caused for Mr D, our investigator was of the opinion that the compensation 
payment offered should be increased to £150. 
TSB disagreed. They explained that Mr D was without the money for less than 24 hours and 
so, as they were able to resolve the issue very quickly, they felt the offer of £75 was fair. 
As they didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having looked through everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. Ill 
explain why. 
While I do agree and accept that TSB returned the money to the business account in less 
than 24 hours, I feel there is more to this complaint than just that.
The error was initially made when a member of staff set up a new payee on Rs account and 
made a payment from it. This caused both concern and worry, leading Mr D to cancel the 
card and ask for the internet banking to be frozen. 
R then had to rely on Mr D, who had to then use his personal credit card and cash to keep 
his business operational in the days following the error, which took time and further 
organisation on his part. 
As well as the above, in order to sort out the issue, Mr D had to make multiple calls which 
took up a lot of his time. Initially he wasnt told the money would be put back into the account 
straight away, meaning he had to call again to make sure that happened. Mr D has 
explained he lost half a days work as a result of him trying to resolve the issue.
I understand that Mr D cancelling the business debit card and asking for the internet banking 
to be frozen was his decision. However, I would expect that any reasonable person would do 
the same if they noticed that such a large payment had been taken out of their business 
account unexpectedly.
When thinking about compensation and how much we feel is reasonable, our service always 
considers the individual circumstances of each complaint. I understand TSB has used a 
calculator to suggest a level of compensation, and that this amount was then increased. 
But in this case, for the reasons set out above, I do feel the total amount of £150 is fair 
considering the inconvenience caused to R, as a result of the error made by TSB. It is what I 
would have recommended had nothing been offered at all. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
TSB Bank Plc should pay R £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman