DRN-3042672
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that TSB Bank plc (TSB) contacted Mrs G about an outstanding debt 
resolved by a complaint  to us  in 2015 . They would like to know why TSB didnt delete Mrs 
Gs personal details, as agreed, from its, and its debt recovery agents systems.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
I appreciate it must have been very frustrating and stressful for Mrs G to have been 
wrongly pursued for a debt in 2014. And they, understandably, would have felt that 
was the end of the matter when that complaint was resolved in 2015. 
I have seen the letter TSB sent to Mrs G in 2020 and I can understand why it caused 
some concern. Although it notes a balance of £4347.13 it also states what will 
happen if the full balance isnt paid off. Given the history I can understand why Mr 
and Mrs G might have read that as a demand for payment
However, TSB has explained the letter wasnt a demand for the original debt but 
actually a credit for the same sum generated in error after an  upgrade to its 
computer systems in 2018 led to the account being reactivated. It is unfortunate but 
problems with IT systems can occur which is what seems to have happened here
The agreement on the original complaint related to the debt being written off and 
credit file amendments. I cant find any evidence of an agreement to delete all of Mrs 
Gs personal information from TSBs records. We have checked with TSB and it has 
confirmed it only committed to removing the account from Mrs Gs credit file. I think 
there must have been some misunderstanding as to what was agreed. But  I am 
clear TSB only agreed to update the credit file. I would have been surprised if it had 
agreed to remove all data from its systems in the event of future queries.
TSB has evidenced that it has removed any reference to this matter from Mrs Gs 
credit file. And sent a cheque for £500 for the distress and inconvenience which I 
think is fair in the circumstance
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman