DRN-3794392
The complaint
Mr J complains about U K Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim made under his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J has a home insurance policy underwritten by UKI which covers his buildings and 
contents, amongst other things. Hes renewed the policy annually over a number of years. 
Mr J made a claim after a number of trees in his garden were felled and/or made dangerous 
during a named storm in November 2021. Mr J wanted UKI to cover some of the cost (up to 
the policy limit) of safely removing the trees.
UKI declined the claim. They pointed out that the terms of Mr Js policy made it clear that 
they wouldnt pay for damage to or loss of garden plants if that was caused by storm.
They also said they could in theory pay for the clearance of one of the trees, if Mr J made a 
claim for damage to his greenhouse, onto which that particular tree had fallen. But they also 
pointed out that the cost of clearance of that one tree wouldnt exceed the excess on Mr Js 
policy. 
Mr J wasnt happy with this outcome and made a complaint to UKI. He said he hadnt seen 
the policy booklet setting out the terms - and in particular the exclusions  in detail. 
He also said that when hed renewed the policy, hed been sent an Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID). This said storm damage was covered. And said damage to 
garden plants was covered  with no qualification except that the maximum UKI would pay 
was £1,000 (less the excess).
UKI didnt uphold the complaint. They referred Mr J to the exclusion relating to storm 
damage to garden plants set out in the policy booklet. And they said their decision to decline 
the claim had been correct.
Mr J didnt accept this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and 
didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. She thought they were entitled to decline the 
claim under the terms of the policy.
Mr J disagreed and asked for a final decision form an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about the terms set out in the policy booklet. They say UKI wont 
pay for damage to garden plants caused by storm. Thats set out very clearly in the booklet. 
And Mr J isnt suggesting that theres any ambiguity in the relevant policy term or that its 
inherently unfair.
Mr J is saying that he wasnt aware of the detail of the policy terms because he hasnt seen 
the booklet  at least not recently. And the IPID  which was sent to him at renewal - gives 
the impression that his claim would in fact be covered. So, he thinks its unfair for UKI to rely 
on the exclusion set out in the policy booklet.
I know this will disappoint Mr J but having taken everything into account I dont agree with 
him. Ill explain why.
I understand that its been some time since Mr J bought his policy. But at that point he will 
have been provided with a copy of the policy booklet - or access to it. And he will have been 
advised to check that the policy was suitable for his needs, bearing in mind the terms and 
conditions set out in the booklet.
If at any point in time after the initial purchase Mr J had forgotten the terms, wanted to check 
them or wanted clarification, he could have contacted UKI and/or sought information through 
their website.
I dont think Mr J could have ever been under the impression that there was no policy 
booklet and/or that the terms of his policy were set out in his schedule or in the IPID he was 
sent at renewal.
The IPID says quite explicitly:
This document is only intended to provide a summary of the main cover and 
exclusions. complete contractual information will be confirmed in the other 
documents we send to you.
I can also see that the letters UKI sent to Mr J before and after annual renewals state quite 
clearly that the customer should check that the cover is still suitable for their needs.
In short, the terms of Mr Js policy arent unclear, obscure, unfair or set out only in the small 
print. If Mr J had looked at the policy booklet, it would be clear that his claim wouldnt be 
covered. 
There is some responsibility placed on insurance policyholders to know what their policy 
covers and what it does not, particularly where the policy is bought on a non-advised basis. 
UKI didnt tell Mr J the policy was suitable for him. They told him what the terms were and 
advised him to be sure the policy was suitable for his needs. 
I have some sympathy for Mr J. Its not uncommon for policyholders to renew their polices 
without checking the terms and conditions. And of course, Im sorry that the storm caused 
the damage to his garden. 
However, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold UKI responsible if Mr J didnt either recall 
or remind himself of the terms of his policy when he renewed it. Or to ask them to pay this 
particular claim despite the fact that they clearly didnt ever intend to offer cover in these 
particular circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman